She has established a successful singing career and is reported to have a $20 million (£15 million) net worth.

Yet Ellie Goulding made sure she helped those less fortunate than her over the festive period as she volunteered at the Crisis homeless centre in north London on Monday.

The Love Me like You Do hitmaker, 32, who married art dealer husband Caspar Jopling in August, served cups of tea and chatted to visitors during her visit to the charity.

Volunteering: Ellie Goulding made sure she helped those less fortunate than her over the festive period as she volunteered at the Crisis homeless centre in north London on Monday

Ellie was pictured getting stuck into her duties as she frothed milk and made hot beverages at a barista station.

While the Starry Eyed singer was later seen chatting to visitors at the centre as she 'mucked in' to her duties.

Ellie opted for a casual all-black ensemble with a nametag saying 'Ellie G' attached to her jumper.

Crisis Christmas centres offer homeless people food, safety and healthcare, as well as valuable advice on education, health, housing and employment.

Getting stuck in: The Love Me like You Do hitmaker, 32, who married art dealer husband Caspar Jopling in August, served cups of tea and chatted to visitors during her visit to the charity

The charity also took to its social media channels after Ellie's visit, to thank the singer for volunteering at the centre on Sunday also.

Sharing a video of Ellie getting stuck in, they tweeted: 'It was wonderful to have @elliegoulding at our North London residential centre yesterday - serving tea, chatting to guests and generally mucking in.'

They sweetly added: 'An early Christmas present for our guests and volunteers!'

In the video, a fellow volunteer describes Ellie's visit to the centre as they sweetly reveal that she 'fitted in well' with the rest of the team.

'Mucking in': Ellie was pictured getting stuck into her duties as she frothed milk and made hot beverages at a barista station

Just Ellie! Ellie opted for a casual all-black ensemble with a nametag saying 'Ellie G' attached to her jumper

They say: 'We were just doing our regular jobs serving tea and coffee when, suddenly, Ellie Goulding came out of the blue. We were just so shocked, like, I really didn't know how to react.

'I mean, she was really, really nice and friendly. She offered to help make tea and coffee for everybody else. She just wanted to help out generally and get involved. She fitted in quite well with the rest of the teal really quickly!'

Ellie's volunteering comes after she attended Princess Beatrice's engagement party at Chiltern Firehouse in London on Wednesday night with husband Caspar.

Grateful: The charity also took to its social media channels after Ellie's visit, to thank the singer for volunteering at the centre on Sunday also

Stunning: Ellie's volunteering comes after she attended Princess Beatrice's engagement party at Chiltern Firehouse in London on Wednesday night with husband Caspar (pictured)

Ellie and Caspar tied the knot in York at the end of August in a lavish ceremony that was attended by the likes of Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom, Sienna Miller, James Blunt and the singer's close pal Princess Beatrice and her sister Eugenie.

Ellie has been good friends with Princess Beatrice and her sister Eugenie for years, with the star even holidaying with Beatrice in Jordan in 2017.

It's said Ellie and Caspar have enjoyed double dates with Eugenie and her husband Jack Brooksbank and the couple attended Eugenie's wedding in October last year.