Emily Thornberry has pledged to quit as Labour leader if the polls show she can't win an election - in a possible swipe at Jeremy Corbyn.

Setting out her stall, the Shadow Foreign Secretary said the new leader needed to have 'life experience' and understand the 'struggles ordinary people are going through every day.'

And in an apparent dig at Jeremy Corbyn, Thornberry said she would be 'loyal' to the party she loves, and step down if she couldn't achieve a Labour majority.

Writing in the Sunday Mirror, she said: ''If I am elected leader, and if there is any stage where I know – and the polls and my colleagues tell me – that I can't persuade people, and I can't get us back into power, then I vow to do what I've always done throughout my life.

In an apparent dig at Jeremy Corbyn, Emily Thornberry said she would be 'loyal' to the party she loves, and step down if she couldn't achieve a Labour majority

Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn with Rebecca Long-Bailey (L) Shadow Secretary of State for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, and shadow Chancellor John McDonnell

'I will be loyal to the party I love. So I will stand down and give one of my brilliant colleagues the chance to win instead.'

Shadow foreign secretary Emily Thornberry and shadow Treasury minister Clive Lewis are the only two to have officially declared their candidacy so far.

In the missive, she added: 'We need someone with confidence and forensic skill at the Despatch Box, who can blow past Boris Johnson's bluster and expose him for the feckless, lying charlatan that he is.

'And we need someone with the conviction to speak their mind, but the courage to admit when they've made mistakes and take responsibility for them.

'But above all of those qualities, what matters most is that we need someone who can win.

'Politics is not a kids' football game. It's not the taking part that counts. We urgently need to win back the trust of the public and put Labour back into power. People's lives and jobs depend on it.'

It comes as another Labour leader hopeful, Rebecca Long-Bailey, has been embroiled in controversy over claims made about her upbringing and her choice of advisers for the campaign ahead.

It comes as another Labour leader hopeful, Rebecca Long-Bailey, has been embroiled in controversy over claims made about her upbringing and her choice of advisers for the campaign ahead

The Sunday Times reports Jon Lansman, chair of the activist movement Momentum, is acting as an 'adviser' to the shadow business secretary in her quest to succeed Jeremy Corbyn at the top of the party.

The news is likely to anger moderates, with former home secretary Alan Johnson blaming Mr Lansman and Momentum for Labour's worst general election defeat in almost 100 years.

Launching into a tirade on ITV after the exit poll was announced on election night, Mr Johnson, who was asked personally by Tony Blair to stand to be an MP, said: 'I want Momentum gone. Go back to your student politics and your little left wing.'

In what the newspaper dubbed a leak of 'Labour's secret list of target seats' at the election, a document allegedly shared with a trade union shows the party targeted a number of Conservative constituencies in a bid to make gains.

Target seats such as Mansfield ended up with blue majorities of more than 15,000, while only Putney out of a list of 60 targets was a Labour gain on the night.

The Sunday Times also reports that Ms Long-Bailey, an ally of Jeremy Corbyn, has over-egged the origins of her inspiration to get into politics.

She has in past interviews, as well as on election leaflets, said her political outlook was shaped by watching her father worry about losing his job on Salford docks.

In an election leaflet, she wrote: 'My dad, Jimmy, worked on the Salford docks and I grew up watching him worrying when round after round of redundancies were inflicted on the docks.'

But Ms Long-Bailey, born in September 1979, would only have been two when the docks closed in 1982.

A spokesman for Ms Long-Bailey told the Sunday Times: 'Rebecca, like many others in the north, saw first-hand the devastation created by Thatcher's brutal economic regime.'

Those standing for the leadership have looked to underline their working-class credentials in a bid to appeal to a left-wing membership that will elect Mr Corbyn's successor next year.

Sir Keir Starmer, the shadow Brexit secretary and former director of public prosecutions for the Crown Prosecution Service, emphasised how his father was a tool-maker.

Yet according to a BMG survey for the Independent, voters want a decisive break from Mr Corbyn's agenda.

The BMG poll found almost half of voters think Labour should ditch its current agenda of focusing tax rises on the wealthiest 5% of the population, with just 27% in favour of keeping the policy.

When asked about Labour's current positions on public spending and nationalisation, 45% want the policies dumped, while in both cases close to a third do not.

Other candidates expected to stand in the upcoming leadership contest, which is likely to be concluded around March, include Wigan MP Lisa Nandy, David Lammy and Jess Phillips.