Rudy Giuliani attended Donald Trump's Studio 54-themed party Saturday night at the president's Mar-a-Lago resort.

The president threw the party, which theme was inspired by the former nightclub and current Broadway theatre, and his personal attorney made an appearance, according to photos shared to social media.

Trump arrived in Mar-a-Lago at the end of the week where he spoke at the conservative student conference for Turning Point USA in West Palm Beach, Florida on Friday.

Rudy Giuliani was spotted partying at Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Saturday night

The party was themed after Studio 54, a former Manhattan night club and current Broadway theatre

Trump and first lady Melania Trump (left) also met with former Navy SEAL Eddie Gallagher (right), who was accused of war crimes and the president stepped in to try and stop him from being stripped of his SEAL status

Giuliani (left) and Trump (right) attended the event after speaking at Turning Point USA's conservative student conference in West Palm Beach, Florida

Giuliani, the former Republican Mayor of New York City, also spoke to students gathered for the 5th annual Student Action Summit.

The president's attorney is a central figure in the impeachment proceedings due to his alleged shadow diplomacy in Ukraine. He recently returned from a trip to Ukraine and Hungary where he met with current and former Ukrainian officials as part of a documentary series he's producing for One America News Network.

Trump will spend his Christmas vacationing in Mar-a-Lago and will return to Washington, D.C. after the new year.

At the resort, the president and first lady Melania Trump also met with former Navy SEAL Eddie Gallagher, who the president stepped in for when he faced getting stripped of his SEAL status for war crimes, including posing for a picture with a dead body.

'Finally got to thank the President and his amazing wife by giving them a little gift from Eddie's deployment to Mosul,' Gallagher wrote on the instagram post with an image, which appears to be on an account he shares with his wife Andrea.

In the image Gallagher is with his wife and the first couple.