Britain's motorists will spend a total of £7.8billion on fuel this festive season.

That's according to a new calculation based on 28 million drivers hitting the road this week to visit friends and family - and doing some last minute buying of gifts.

Many of these will be visiting motorway services forecourts, where there'll be stung an extra £20 to fill up in some cases, according to our fuel prices investigation this weekend.

Festive fuel bill: Motorists will be forking out £7.8billion on petrol and diesel this Christmas, a study has estimated

Drivers' overall spend during the festive period has been estimated by a new study conducted on behalf of EDF Energy.

A survey of 2,000 drivers found that the average motorist will spend £280 on fuel when driving home for Christmas, shopping and running holiday-related errands.

While fuel costs have come down in recent months and supermarkets have initiated price wars, a fifth of drivers polled said they have made plans this year to use their cars less, reducing the number of trips they make over the festive season.

Unsurprisingly, the study also found 40 per cent think petrol and diesel is 'too expensive'.

But more than a third of the motorists surveyed feel they've no choice but to pay so much for fuel because they're so dependent on their cars - especially at this time of year.

This is an even greater issue for those having to do long motorway journeys to visit friends and family for Christmas.

Many will at some point fill up at motorway service stations up and down the country, which continue to flee motorists with extortionate pump prices despite promises of crackdowns from ministers.

The difference in the price of a litre of fuel at a motorway services compared to an in-town forecourt was found to be as much as 36p, a Daily Mail investigation uncovered.

A Daily Mail investigation found drivers are charged up to 36p a litre more if they fill up at a motorway services instead of s forecourt in town

Services along the M25 – where some of the worst holiday congestion is expected – and the M20 are charging the most, with many asking for 149.9p a litre for unleaded and 155.9p for diesel.

This is well above the national average of 125.3p for unleaded and 129.6p for diesel, and far higher than at local supermarket petrol stations.

In one of the worst examples, unleaded fuel at Birchanger Green Services on the M11 in Essex is 36p more expensive than at a Sainsbury’s three miles away.

This means it could cost £20 more to fill up a typical 55-litre family car on the motorway.

One in five drivers polled in the EDF Energy study said they are reducing the number of journeys they perform by car over Christmas in an effort to save money on fuel

Philippe Commaret, managing director for customers at EDF Energy said: 'Christmas is a busy time, and we often spend hours in the car visiting friends and family and running last minute errands.

'But the extra miles we travel this month can cause fuel costs and carbon emissions to increase.

'Concerns about cost and the environment are causing some people to restrict their driving this festive period - but by switching to an electric vehicle, motorists could save money and do their bit for the planet.'

EDF Energy also found that the financial burden of driving a petrol or diesel car is not the only thing motorists are worried about over the Christmas holidays.

Their carbon footprint is also a concern, with an eighth claiming they don't intend to travel over the festive period in order to keep emissions down.

For the same reason, a sixth of drivers have arranged to get a lift with someone else travelling to a nearby location.