Laura Whitmore has reminded people that Christmas could be the 'loneliest' time for some in a heartfelt message on the Tube, shortlt after replacing embattled Caroline Flack as Love Island host.

Caroline, 40, stepped down last week after she was charged with assaulting her boyfriend, Lewis Burton, 27, following an altercation at her London home.

And Laura, 34, who was announced as her replacement on Saturday, took the opportunity to display a conciliatory message at North Greenwich station, which she later posted on Instagram.

Meaningful: Laura Whitmore, 34, posted a message on the Tube which said Christmas could be the 'loneliest' time - a day after she replaced embattled Caroline Flack as Love Island host

It read: 'Christmas is a time of family and friends and is joyful for many, but over the holidays you will meet people who are struggling.

'Your mates, neighbours, work colleagues, strangers on the street, folks queuing at the cash desk in front of you.

'Look around and be "present" while shopping for your presents. While it is the merriest time for a lot of people it is also the hardest, saddest, loneliest time for others. We're all busy, but we're not too busy to be kind.

'Remember the best thing you can give someone this season is LOVE,' she added.

'Give love': Laura who was announced as Caroline's replacement on Saturday, took the opportunity to display a conciliatory message at North Greenwich station

Understanding: In a caption, the star appeared to allude to Caroline's situation as she urged her fans to 'share the love' and warned them that 'no one knows the demons people face'

And in a caption on the post, the star appeared to allude to Caroline's situation as she urged her fans to 'share the love' and warned them that 'no one knows the demons people face'.

She wrote: 'A little message from me... This is up in North Greenwich London tube station over Christmas.

'I never in a million years thought I’d get the opportunities I have been given.

'I grew up in a small town in Ireland with a single mum and no one I knew worked in telly. I’ve worked hard but I feel truly lucky to feel love and support.

Woman of the hour: Earlier on Sunday, Laura spoke on her 5 Live radio show about her 'new job' on Love Island, season six

'Never let anyone tell you you can’t do something. Let’s remember to share the love. Be nice to each other. Christmas is hard and a lot of people are at breaking point.

'No one knows the demons people face. Happy Christmas! Just recorded my last show before Christmas. Signing out x #winteroflove #crackon''

Earlier on Sunday, Laura spoke on her 5 Live radio show about her 'new job' on Love Island, season six.

'I've got a new job!', Laura said on the air, as she played the Love Island theme tune, which she admitted 'excites' her now, but will likely cause her to feel 'terror' closer to the show's transmission.

Drama: Caroline, 40, stepped down last week after she was charged with assaulting her boyfriend, Lewis Burton, 27, after an altercation at her London home

'It starts very very soon,' she went on. 'I am in disbelief and shock. It doesn't affect this radio show too much.

'I will be flying back and forth from South Africa, hosting [spin-off show] Aftersun on a Monday, live from London, and then doing this radio show on Sundays.'

She went on: 'I want to say a big thank you to everyone who has messaged me. It's kind of a dream come true but I wish it was under better circumstances.'

Laura will fill in for Caroline on the ITV2 series, which returns in less than a month for a winter edition.

Caroline is only thought to be sitting out for the one series - which will be set in Cape Town across January and February.