Dele Alli was a head-scratcher for Frank Lampard.

The Spurs man had been the story of Jose Mourinho’s time in charge of Spurs. As they rocketed back up the Premier League, it was Alli at the centre of it all. His newfound form reflected a team that had found their way again under the Portuguese.

So Lampard needed a solution. He cracked it. Lampard’s ideas meant Alli was at his worst again. He was anonymous, less a player in the hole than a gaping absence in the Spurs line-up.

It was a return to his worst moments of the season. Alli had become symbolic of the malaise under Mauricio Pochettino, the one-time bright new hope of English football struggling to shine over the last few seasons. This was the player that turned up on Sunday.

Dele Alli was at his moody, sulking worst during Tottenham's 2-0 defeat to Chelsea on Sunday

Jose Mourinho attempted to tweak his tactics to get Alli involved but he failed to respond

Alli found himself surrounded by defenders and unable to find spaces in between the lines

It was a blow for Spurs, given Mourinho had brought the best back out of him.

He ran the show against West Ham and then went on a three-game scoring run. The aggression had been back, as were the moments of brash brilliance. It looked as though the devil in Dele had woken up again.

Alli’s displays have even seen him move back into England contention after being dropped from the squad entirely by Gareth Southgate, a position that would have been unthinkable a few years ago.

Lampard made it clear he saw Alli as a serious threat. Prior to the game, the Chelsea manager ran through his thoughts on Spurs with Sky Sports.

Frank Lampard created the perfect gameplan to minimise Alli's influence on proceedings

Alli seemed confused by the job he was asked to do and found it difficult to escape his markers

Lampard lined Chelsea up in a 3-4-3 formation designed to foil threat of Alli and Harry Kane

He said: ‘There are a lot of problems because they’ve got good players. They have the best all round No 9 in the world in (Harry) Kane, and obviously Son and Dele Alli.

‘What we are seeing with Alli is he is getting into those areas in and beyond Kane as he was a few seasons ago.’

Lampard set out to stop him. The Chelsea manager has not been hailed as a great tactical thinker during his time in the Stamford Bridge dugout but his decision to switch to a 3-4-3 must have, in part, been inspired by Alli’s return to genuine form.

The change worked. Alli struggled throughout. From the off, he seemed confused by the job he was being asked to do because the Blues’ shape was so unexpected.

The midfielder cut a frustrated figure and frequently looked confused at his role in the side

Alli's biggest contribution to the game was a fierce confrontation with Mateo Kovacic

The pair clashed and a brawl ensued after the pair responded angrily to a tussle on the ground

He struggled to find any space either behind the Chelsea back three or between the lines. Those pockets that he has exploited over the last six games disappeared.

Mourinho clearly saw the problem from the first minute. The Spurs manager tried to lift him and change what he was doing. There was also a constant conversation between the pair during the opening 45 minutes, with Alli not seeming particularly receptive to the instructions his manager was giving out.

It just reflected in his body language during the game. This was the midfielder at his worst – moody and prone to a sulk rather than the on-pitch nuisance he thrives as.

Eric Dier resorted to playing long balls over the top rather than trying to find Alli

Kane was also shackled well by Chelsea's back three who surrounded him in possession

Mourinho couldn't find an answer to Lampard's tactical switch as Chelsea eased to victory

Alli did have a genuine excuse. Spurs’ approach play was rudimentary at best. Rather than using Alli, passes seemed to entirely bypass him. Mourinho’s side kept up their recent habit of going long from the defence to the front. If that immediate out ball did not work, Eric Dier would constantly look to fire passes over the top rather than to Spurs’ No 20.

While that has been effective in other games, the issue here was that Kane, a constant target, was being nullified by the sheer number of central defenders around him. There were no passes into Alli’s path. He could not even pick up on the scraps because the ball rarely came back into his path.

Alli did not help matters with his movement, allowing himself to be cut off from any potential passing lines. It meant that instead of knitting play he simply watched it happen around him, unable to inject any quality or needle to a side that was missing it.

Lampard deserves credit for showing tactical flexibility and leaving Alli marginalised

The flashpoint with Mateo Kovacic after Alli approached a 50-50 by trying to turn himself into the Croatian’s backpack spoke for the 23-year-old’s frustration. No one reacts that badly to an accidental tangle if things are going your way.

The interval will have brought hope. Christian Eriksen’s introduction meant Spurs built their way up the pitch slightly more and Alli started to get slightly more involved.

Son Heung-min’s sending off changed that. Spurs were unable to get anything going as Chelsea sat back and happily took their three points. Alli went back to the fringes.

If Southgate was watching on, this will have set back Alli’s hopes of breaking back into the England side considerably.