Premier League stars Kevin De Bruyne and Eric Bailly have handed out trainers to underprivileged kids in Manchester.

The pair worked with Roc Nation Sports International's Kicks for Kids scheme to dish out the presents to children in the north west as a gift ahead of Christmas.

Romelu Lukaku has also invited 30 kids from nearby to attend an Inter Milan game in January where he will gift them the shoes.

Kevin De Bruyne was among Premier League stars handing out trainers to children

De Bruyne part of Roc Nation Sports International's Kicks for Kids scheme to dish out presents

De Bruyne, at Wythenshawe Hospital, said: 'December is all about putting smiles on faces'

Bailly paid tribute to the local community in Manchester as he handed out the sneakers at the Children's Society: 'Manchester holds a special place in anyone's heart who has played at a club like United.

'I've had a difficult eight months and the community has really pulled me through it. This was my opportunity to say thank you and I loved every minute of it'.

De Bruyne went to Wythenshawe Hospital and said: 'December is all about putting smiles on faces and none were bigger than mine and my wife's spending time with the children at Wythenshawe Hospital.

'The staff do a fantastic job and we were grateful to have the opportunity to meet patients and families as part of the Kicks for Kids campaign.'

Eric Bailly paid tribute to the local community in Manchester as he handed out sneakers

The Manchester United defender handed out presents at the Children's Society in Manchester

Jerome Boateng also made a delivery to the Klinik fur Padiatrie in Berlin and said: 'It's always important that we give back to cities that help make us who we are. Without the local communities and their support, as footballers, we achieve very little. Very proud of this campaign.'

Roc Nation Sports International, which was founded by hip hop artist Jay Z, teamed up with Germany-based streetwear retailer Snipes for the charitable effort.

Lauren James, who plays for United, and Samuel Chukwueze, the Villarreal defender, were also involved.