Frank Lampard was victorious in the battle against his former manager Jose Mourinho on Sunday.

Lampard's Chelsea secured a 2-0 victory at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium, with Willian opening the scoring with a fine strike before later netting a penalty.

Sportsmail's Amitai Winehouse assesses how both managers fared during the Premier League clash.

Jose Mourinho and Tottenham fell short in his battle against Chelsea and Frank Lampard

Tactics

Frank Lampard reeled out an incredibly effective change in formation, switching to a 3-4-3 from his usual 4-3-3.

It followed his comments pre-match about how dangerous Spurs could be. And the switch worked when it came to stopping Spurs going forward. Chelsea’s defence crowded out Kane and kept the others quiet.

They also targeted Serge Aurier with Marcos Alonso at wing-back, using diagonals from the defence to exploit him and it was no surprise that he was the man at fault when Willian scored the opener.

Spurs in Jose Mourinho’s usual 4-2-3-1, meanwhile, could not cope with the combination of wing-backs and wide forwards. Jan Vertonghen, not a natural left-back, seemed caught in two minds whenever Cesar Azpilicueta got down the line.

Lampard’s change in tactics played a big part in Chelsea ending their bad run and winning here.

Marcos Alonso won his battle with Spurs full-back Serge Aurier out wide in the victory

Touchline antics/body language

Mourinho has tried to project a calm image as Spurs manager but was clearly agitated by the way his team played. He spent most of the opening period in deep discussions with Joao Sacramento.

While Lampard flew out of his seat when Paolo Gazzaniga took out Marcos Alonso, Mourinho tried to discuss added time with fourth official Andre Marriner.

It was only when Son Heung-min was sent off that Mourinho showed his passionate side. He was furious at the fact the screens in the stadium had shown the Korean’s kick out and angrily remonstrated with Marriner.

Still, there was little in the way of an issue between Lampard and Mourinho and there was even time for an handshake between the pair at the end.

Mourinho grew increasingly frustrated on the sidelines and began to gesticulate wildly

Crowd reaction to them

If there was any doubt as to how Chelsea fans view Mourinho after his moves to Manchester United and now rivals Spurs, it was made clear in the opening 15 minutes here. A minute or two after Willian’s strike hit the back of the net, they went into a full-hearted chorus of ‘f*** off Mourinho’.

There was little acknowledgment of Lampard from the home fans, with the former Chelsea midfielder barely meriting a chant. Still, he received plenty of love from the away end as they sang about ‘Super Frankie Lampard’ towards the end before directing a chant of ‘You’re not special anymore’ at their old boss.

For a man with an ego like Mourinho, it must have hurt. Lampard, on the other hand, led the Chelsea players in their celebrations at full-time and even threw his coat into the away end as he bounced up and down.

The supporters had very contrasting responses to the managers throughout the game

Substitutions

Mourinho needed to change things at half-time and seemed to cotton onto something when he put on Christian Eriksen. It eradicated a big problem for Spurs in the first-half as they found a way to work up the pitch.

But Son’s sending off ruined any real hope of a comeback and the introduction of Tanguy Ndombele and Danny Rose really only served to settle them down. They were better with them on the pitch but by that time the match was gone.

Lampard kept his team ticking over nicely by introducing Michy Batshuayi, Reece James and Jorginho but did not need to change much after he got Plan A so right.