An overlooked LS Lowry painting that has never been displayed in public has gone on sale for £1million 70 years after the young Oxford university student who received it as a gift from his parents left for America.

The Mill, Pendlebury, was painted in 1943 and shows the Acme Spinning Company Mill, which became the first in Britain to be powered entirely by electricity when it opened in 1905.

Leonard D Hamilton hung the picture in his rooms at Balliol College, Oxford, before leaving for the US in 1949, where he helped discover the structure of DNA. He died this year aged 98 and the work will now appear at a Christie's auction on January 21.

The Mill, Pendlebury, was painted in 1943 and shows the Acme Spinning Company Mill, which became the first in Britain to be powered entirely by electricity when it opened in 1905

'What's unusual about this is that it just doesn't feature anywhere in the literature at all,' said Nick Orchard, head of modern British art at the auction house, told The Guardian.

'It is a lovely painting and a great composition. You've got everything you want in a Lowry … lots of people doing lots of different things, terraced houses, and factories in the background. It ticks all the boxes for Lowry.'

The painting features a classic Lowry scene, including his famous 'matchstick men' figures.

There are a group of children playing a game of cricket surrounded by families who are enjoying a walk on their day off.

On either side of the scene are terraced houses with the enormous bulk of the cotton mill - which was demolished in 1984 - in the background.

The artwork is significant, because it shows the same mill that Lowry saw one day in 1916 in a moment that is said to have crystallised his approach to painting.

Leonard D Hamilton hung the picture in his rooms at Balliol College, Oxford, (pictured) before leaving for the US in 1949, where he helped discover the structure of DNA

He said in a later interview: 'One day I missed a train from Pendlebury, a place I had ignored for seven years, and as I left the station I saw the Acme Spinning Mill: the huge black framework of rows of yellow-lit windows standing out against the sad, damp charged afternoon sky.

'The mill was turning out. I watched this scene, which I’d looked at many times without seeing it, with rapture.’

Lowry, who died in 1976 at the age of 88, was known for his classic depictions of working-class life.

He painted largely in his spare time while working for the Pall Mall Property Company in Manchester, but still achieved recognition during his life.

He was the royal artist at the Queen's coronation in 1953 - the year after he retired - and nine years later became a Royal Academician.