Line of Duty's Martin Compston has fueled fan excitement for the upcoming sixth series as he shared a snap of the script's first episode.

The actor, 35, who plays Detective Steve Arnott, built on anticipation for the new series with the photo and wrote: 'Guys... I’m scared,' in the caption.

Viewers of the BBC One series were quick to express their joy at Martin's post, with one saying they know he will be able to pull off whatever the writer's throw at him.

Back in action: Line of Duty's Martin Compston, 35, has fueled fan excitement for the upcoming sixth series as he shared a snap of the script's first episode

They wrote: 'I hope [show creator] Jed [Mercurio] is good this year - he's been through the mill! Mind you - that's a credit to you as he knows you can pull off anything he throws at you on screen.'

Another fan wrote on the post, which has garnered more than 35,000 'likes':'This has made my Christmas! So excited!'

One viewer could not contain their joy at the news of the script's competition and said: 'You are scared??? I've just peed myself with excitement.'

Martin did not reveal anything about the show's top-secret plot but the script appears to hint the cast and crew will be filming soon.

Sneak peak: The actor, who plays Detective Steve Arnott, built on anticipation for the new series with the photo and wrote: 'Guys... I’m scared,' in the caption

It comes after Jed Mercurio left fans speculating he had revealed the identity of bent copper H when he dropped a major clue about series six on Thursday.

The writer, 53, whipped up a social media storm with viewers of the smash-hit BBC show when he shared a photo of Australian chocolate biscuits TimTams with the caption #LineofDuty Series 6 Plot Clue No. 1.'

Manufactured by Arnott's - the same surname as AC-12 guru DS Steve Arnott - the cryptic snap sent viewers into a frenzy, with theories ranging from a move to Australia to Steve breaking up with his girlfriend.

Reaction: Line of Duty viewers could not contain their excitement after Martin shared the script

One fan believes that despite outward appearances , the link is actually to Steve's colleague DI Kate Fleming (played by Vicky McClure).

They wrote: The guy who created the biscuit is called Timothy "Tamworth" FLEMING For a company called ARNOTTS Nothing is a coincidence on this show! BUT WHAT DOES IT MEAN, I think my head is exploding...

Another fan predicted a move Down Under for Steve, writing: 'Its set in Australia? or does Steve get slammed? OMG cant wait.'

A third wrote: 'Clearly this will be taking him to Australia for some kind of filming.'

H? Line of Duty creator Jed Mercurio left fans speculating he had revealed the identity of bent copper H when he dropped a major clue about series six on Thursday

A whimsical viewer wrote: 'Steve's going to leave the force and set up a biscuit company?'

My theory is the biscuit company is Arnott's and the biscuit bar is breaking so Steve will have broken up with his girlfriend and be investigating her or someone in his department.'

The most recent episode of Line Of Duty, series five’s finale on BBC One back in May, is the most watched programme of the year so far, with a 28-day figure of 13.7 million viewers across all TV and online viewing.

During the jaw-dropping episode, Jed dropped the bombshell there was not just one super villain H but four caddies.

'We're sucking diesel now!"': The television writer, 53, whipped up a social media storm with viewers of the smash-hit BBC show when he shared a photo of Australian chocolate biscuits TimTams with the caption #LineofDuty Series 6 Plot Clue No. 1.'

Bent copper? Manufactured by Arnott's - the same surname as AC-12 guru DS Steve Arnott (played by Martin Compston - the cryptic snap sent viewers into a frenzy

Steve discovered the vital clue when a clip of DI Matthew 'Dot' Cottan's dying declaration was played during AC-12 boss Ted Hasting's interrogation with Patricia Carmichael (Anna Maxwell-Martin).

Mercurio has revealed that we should expect a sixth series in 2020 – but there has been no confirmation of this as yet.

He told RadioTimes.com in October 2019, 'I would hope it’s sometime in 2020, next year.'

Kelly Macdonald has joined the cast of Line Of Duty as 'the most enigmatic adversary AC-12 have ever faced'.

You push from the outside: One fan believes that despite outward appearances , the link is actually to Steve's colleague DI Kate Fleming (played by Vicky McClure)

Move? Another fan predicted a move Down Under for Steve, writing: 'Its set in Australia? or does Steve get slammed? OMG cant wait.

Something for the pocketbook: Back in November the show's creator Jed shared a snap of the cast dining

The actress, 43, will guest star in the sixth season of the BBC drama as Detective Chief Inspector Joanne Davidson, the senior investigating officer of an unsolved murder, whose 'unconventional' conduct raises suspicion with the anti-corruption unit.

Kelly will start work on Line of Duty series six when filming begins next year, opposite series leads Martin, Vicky McClure and Adrian Dunbar, 61, (Ted Hastings) who are also confirmed to return.

Jed said: 'We're honoured that Kelly Macdonald will join Martin, Vicky and Adrian in Series 6 of Line of Duty.

'DCI Joanne Davidson will prove the most enigmatic adversary AC-12 have ever faced.'

Kelly will follow in the footsteps of the likes of Keeley Hawes (series two and three), Thandie Newton (series four) and Stephen Graham (series five), all of whom have been big name additions to the cast of the police corruption drama.