They've been spotted out enjoying their seasonal break on the snowy slopes of Aspen, Colorado many times over the past few days.

And on Saturday night Leo DiCaprio, 45, and his model girlfriend, Camila Morrone, 22, were seen braving the cold together again on Saturday night.

This time the loved up couple were leaving Casa Tua after enjoying dinner at the Italian restaurant in the heart of Aspen.

Date Night: Leo DiCaprio, 45, and his model girlfriend, Camila Morrone, 22, were seen leaving Casa Tua after enjoying dinner at the Italian restaurant in the heart of Aspen on Saturday night

Leo was decked out in a black, hip-length coat, black pants and boots with a black baseball cap pulled low over his face.

His beautiful lady love looked gorgeous in a black leather jacket that she wore over a black, sparkly dress with a full skirt and black, high-heeled leather boots.

Earlier, he was spotted walking through Aspen in his skiing gear and a black hoodie

They are more usually seen ready to hit the slopes in cold weather gear.

On Friday, the celebrity sported a heavy black puffer jacket over a black sweater and matching black padded pants.

Loved up: Leo was decked out in a black coat, black pants and boots with a black baseball cap pulled low over his face. His lady love looked gorgeous in a black jacket that she wore over a black, sparkly dress with a full skirt and black, high-heeled leather boots

The Once Upon A Time In Hollywood star's face was barely visible in a black ski mask that he pulled up to just under his nose.

With his crash helmet, ski goggles and sunglasses obscuring his face, Leo was almost unrecognizable.

Camila wore a black quilted jacket, black pants and a mask for their ski session.

Done for the day: Earlier, the Hollywood star was spotted walking through Aspen, Colorado in his skiing gear and a black hoodie with the hood pulled low over his face

The Once Upon A Time In Hollywood star's face was barely visible in a black ski mask that he pulled up to just under his nose.

With his crash helmet, ski goggles and sunglasses obscuring his face, Leo was almost unrecognizable.

Camila wore a black quilted jacket, black pants and a mask for their ski session.

She also donned a crash hat, sunglasses and goggles with her brunette tresses streaming over her shoulders.

The loved up couple took a ride up the mountain on a ski-lift before bombing down the slopes.

It's not clear whether the couple intend to celebrate the holiday season in Aspen, but it would certainly be magical there.

Dressed up warm: Leo and Camila looked set to take on the slopes in Aspen on Friday

It would also be a welcome break for Leo who has four projects lined up.

They include Killers Of The Flower Moon, a murder mystery co-starring Robert De Niro and directed by Martin Scorsese, in pre-production for release in 2021.

The Black Hand, about a cop who takes on a ruthless Italian-American gang in New York, is also in pre-production and hasn't set any dates.

Leo also has Hulu TV series The Devil In The White City on the go, with Scorsese as an executive producer.

Set in the build up to the 1893 World's Fair, a serial killer uses the event to attract his female victims.

And he is also set to star in Scorsese's Roosevelt biopic about US President Theodore Roosevelt.