Christina Anstead is celebrating one year of marriage with her husband, Ant.

And to mark the special milestone the Flip or Flop star took to her Instagram on Sunday afternoon to take a trip down memory lane with her wedding video.

'Happy Anniversary. 1 year ago today! I still get emotional watching this! What a year it's been. I was 2 weeks pregnant with baby Hudson here and had no idea . @ant_anstead I love you, our blended family and this life with you,' she wrote in the caption alongside the video.

Happy memories: Christina Anstead took to her Instagram on Sunday afternoon to share her wedding video for her one year anniversary wit her husband Ant Anstead

The video opens up with their wedding date as the two hold hands before their first look before the ceremony.

For her big day, she donned an incredible white gown with lace detailing while marrying the new love of her life.

After they exchanged their vows, the couple and their guests headed off to a giant tent filled with white lights where they went on to celebrate their love with family and friends before their send off.

In love: The video opens up with their wedding date as the two hold hands while before their first look before the ceremony

Exchanging vows: Ant looked like the happiest person in the world when he saw his wife-to-be for the first time at the wedding

This one year celebration comes fresh off of the announcement that Christina and her ex-husband Tarek El Moussa, 38, will reunite to film another season of their HGTV show together.

This will be the ninth season and the third since their chaotic divorce.

'When our marriage fell apart, it was more public than we could ever have imagined,' Christina said in the first episode after their divorce back in 2018.

Her estranged ex added: 'But we're picking up the pieces and we'll still work together to support our kids.'

The two share their two children Taylor, aged nine, and Brayden, aged four.

Their kiss! When it was time to kiss the bride the two did not hesitate

Beautiful: For the big day, Christina wore her long blonde hair down while Ant sported a gray tuxedo

It's official! The two gave a big kiss for their guests before heading to the reception to party

Her speech: Christina gave her vows to her new husband during the ceremony in front of their friends and family

Back in 2016, things got messy between the two following the announcement of their divorce.

'We had an unfortunate misunderstanding about six months ago and the police were called to our house in an abundance of caution,' the couple shared in a joint statement to People following an incident.

'There was no violence and no charges were filed.'

Celebration! Christina cheered after her wedding as she was finally married to her best friend

Looking good: The couple posed for their wedding photos while showing off Christina's elegant white gown

Tradition: The new husband and wife cut their simple cake as guests watched the happy couple

First dance: Love was in the room during their special moment

Police were called to their residence for a 'possibly suicidal male with a gun.'

A witness claimed to have seen Tarek 'run out of his back door' and 'jump over his back fence.'

The same witness also explained that he saw Christina 'crying and shaking' after telling the neighbor that he 'took a handgun, put it in his backpack and ran outside.'

When officers finally found him, he complied and voluntarily released his firearms to officials for 30 days.

Back then: Christina and her ex-husband Tarek El Moussa smile together at the 44th Annual Daytime Emmy Awards back in April 2017



