More revenue generated from speeding fines goes back into speeding cameras than education or road safety programs.

Fines collected from speed cameras were a $157 million cash cow for the New South Wales government in 2018-19, all of which went back into its $304million Community Road Safety Fund.

More than $37 million of that revenue was invested back into speed cameras programs and maintenance, making up 12 per cent of the entire Community Road Safety Fund, according to Seven News.

More than 150 NSW speed cameras collected $157million in fines in 2018-19 (stock image)

Speed cameras received triple the amount allocated for blackspot funding ($14million) and substantially more than school safety ($24 million) and public education and awareness programs ($22 million).

Funding allocated for community education providers such as the Motorcycle and Pedestrian councils wasn't revealed as the state government's negotiations into funding allocations is yet to be finalised.

NSW Opposition Leader Jodi McKay said the amount of cash being splashed on speed cameras wasn't acceptable.

'It should be for genuine safety programs. I don't think it is acceptable and I think most people would also say it isn't acceptable,' she said.

NSW Opposition Leader Jodi McKay (pictured) believes the revenue from speeding fines should go to road safety programs rather than speed cameras

The NSW Centre for Road Safety defended the funding allocations.

'Forty per cent of our fatalities are speed related and speed cameras work to reduce that trauma. Speed cameras saved lives,' director Bernard Carlon said.

Peter Khoury from the NRMA wasn't surprised when told about the figures and had no issue with speed cameras getting a bigger funding slice than other programs.

The NSW government implemented the Community Road Safety Fund in 2012 after the NRMA campaigned and tabled a petition of 13,500 signatures for the fund to be established.

'Speed cameras are expensive and do cost money, so it's important to make sure they are accurate,' Mr Khoury told Daily Mail Australia.

'In saying that, the government needs to keep doing audits to keep making sure the cameras are going places to make roads safer and aren't just there to catch people.'

Around $37 million worth of revenue from fines go back into speed camera programs

The revelations come after Roads Minister Andrew Constance said fine revenue went back into spreading awareness for speeding.

'Everyone needs to know that fine revenue goes straight into a road safety fund to educate people to not do what they've done wrong in the first place,' he said last month.

The minister also recently proposed plans to remove the warning signs placed 250 metres before the cameras, claiming it will save another 54 lives across NSW every year.

There are currently 110 fixed speed cameras and 45 mobile cameras across NSW.

NSW speeding fines start from $121 and loss of one demerit point if clocked over the limit by under 10km/hr to a hefty $2,482 fine and six demerits if busted more than 45km/hr over the limit.

Around 347 lives have been lost on NSW roads in 2019, just above the 343 at the same time last year.