Lazio beat Juventus 3-1, their second win over the Turin giants in little more than two weeks, to win the Italian Super Cup on Sunday, the annual meeting between the Coppa Italia winners and Serie A champions.

Second-half goals from Senad Lulic and Danilo Cataldi won the match which was being played in Saudi Arabia for the second year running. The Lazio squad were given a warm reception from jubilant fans upon their return to the Italian capital on Monday morning at Rome-Fiumicino International Airport.

Lazio also beat Juventus 3-1 in Serie A on December 7, handing their opponents their first defeat under coach Maurizio Sarri.

Lazio players lift the Italian Super Cup after earning a 3-1 win over Serie A champions Juventus

The Rome-based side enjoyed wild celebrations as players took a selfie inside the goal-posts

Lazio boss Simone Inzaghi kissed the trophy after his side downed Juventus for a second time

Cristiano Ronaldo (right) was completely bemused at the end having finished as a runner-up

MATCH FACTS JUVENTUS: Szczesny, De Sciglio (Cuadrado 55), Bonucci, Demiral, Alex Sandro, Pjanic, Matuidi (Costa 76), Bentacur, Ronaldo, Dybala, Higuain (Ramsey 66) Subs not used: De Ligt, Danilo, Pjaca, Can, Rugani, Rabiot, Pinsoglio, Bernardeschi, Buffon Booked: Matuidi, Bentancur Sent off: Bentancur Goals: Dybala (45) LAZIO: Strakosha, Radu, Acerbi, Luiz Felipe, Leiva (Cataldi 64), Milinkovic, Alberto (Parolo 66), Lazzari, Lulic, Correa, Immobile (Caicedo 82) Subs not used: Patric, Berisha, Bastos, Jony, Guerrieri, Proto, Anderson, Adekanye, Marusic Booked: Leiva, Alberto Goals: Alberto (16), Lulic (72), Cataldi (93) Referee: Gianpaolo Calvarese

Lazio, the Coppa Italia victors, went ahead after 17 minutes when Sergei Milinkovic-Savic laid the ball off for Luis Alberto to fire into the net.

That sparked a fight inside the Italian champions as they remained determined not to see a repeat of the 2017 Super Cup final, when they were beaten by Lazio.

That fight proved to be inspired when Paulo Dybala levelled for the Serie A champions at the end of the first-half from a rebound after Cristiano Ronaldo's shot was parried by Thomas Strakosha.

VAR had a look to check whether there was an offside in the build-up to the goal but there was no infringement and the strike stood.

Juventus seemed to be in control in the second half and Ronaldo was close to putting his side ahead with a shot which went just over.

But the Old Lady was soon caught out when Marco Parolo's cross flew across the face of goal and Lulic volleyed in at the far post in the 73rd minute.

It was an avoidable goal to go behind to from a Juventus perspective but as it was a few weeks ago in Serie A, it was no more than they deserved.

Juventus had midfielder Rodrigo Bentancur sent off in stoppage time and Cataldi curled the resulting free kick into the net with the last action of the game.

The Italian Super Cup final is often played abroad and has also been hosted in China, the United States, Libya and Qatar.

Luis Alberto celebrates after opening the scoring on 16 minutes in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia

Paulo Dybala levels the score in first-half stoppage time after Thomas Strakosha parried

Senad Lulic volleys in to score Lazio's second goal at the King Saud University Stadium

Ronaldo (left) shoots towards goal but he cannot inspire a comeback as Juventus are beaten

Lazio players were given a warm reception by jubilant fans upon their arrival back to Italy

Supporters greeted them at Rome-Fiumicino International Airport on Monday morning