Former Westlife singer Brian McFadden is set to marry for a third time after announcing his engagement to his long-term girlfriend Danielle Parkinson.

The ex-boyband hunk, 39, popped the question to his PE teacher partner just a few days before Christmas, announcing the happy news via his Twitter page on Monday morning.

The father-of-two simply wrote: 'FYI I got engaged to beautiful @DaniParky. And yes I’m very very happy xxxx.'

Wedding bells: Former Westlife singer Brian McFadden is set to marry for a third time after announcing his engagement to his long-term girlfriend Danielle Parkinson

Brian and one-time Olympic hopeful Danielle went public with their relationship in late 2016 after being introduced through a mutual friend.

It will be the singer's third marriage following his previous unions with former Atomic Kitten star Kerry Katona, 39, and TV personality Vogue Williams, 34.

He was also engaged to Australian singer Delta Goodrem, but they ended things in April 2011.

Brian's followers were quick to congratulate him on the good news, including Piers Morgan and Ola Jordan.

The singer first confirmed his relationship with Danielle in November 2016.

Announcement: The singer shared the good news on his Twitter account on Monday morning

Romantic: The ex-boyband hunk, 39, popped the question to his PE teacher partner just a few days before Christmas

The pair were introduced through their mutual friend, fellow singer Cole Paige, and it was claimed that sparks flew instantly.

In March 2017, Brian announced he had relocated from Ireland to Danielle's hometown of Rochdale, Greater Manchester, as the couple's relationship got more serious.

He told the Manchester Evening News: 'We met in Manchester through mutual friends and at the moment it's my first home. I'm in Rochdale all the time now.

'It's perfect for me because I'm a Manchester United supporter and I enjoy playing golf in Manchester. It isn't my first time in Manchester but I had never been to Rochdale before.'

Well wishes: The star's celebrity pals were quick to congratulate him on his big news

Admitting things were getting serious, Brian confessed: 'It’s very serious. She’s my best mate and she makes me feel very mature.'

Brian raises two daughters, Molly, 18, and Lilly-Sue, 16, with first wife Kerry.

The pair wed in 2002 following a fairytale romance only to split two years later, before their divorce was finalised in 2006.

McFadden and Katona have had a very turbulent relationship following their marriage, but have managed to put their differences aside for the sake of their kids.

Molly lives in Ireland with her dad and both girls appear to have a very close relationship with Danielle.

First wife: Brian wed Kerry Katona in 2002 following a fairytale romance only to split two years later, before their divorce was finalised in 2006

He then enjoyed a seven-year union with Australian star Delta Goodrem and the pair were engaged before calling it off in April 2011.

Brian and Delta met in 2004 when he asked her to duet with him on the song Almost Here.

At the time McFadden was still married to Kerry - although they had separated and the song was about their break up.

Over the course of their love story, Brian's relationship with Kerry deteriorated, culminating in the singer claiming his first 'pig faced mole' first wife was trying ruin his reputation.

Brian blasted Kerry on Twitter in April 2010, writing: 'I've kept my silence too long and i cant keep it anymore.... its killing me and my beautiful fiance and mum and dad and my friends. ENOUGH!'

Engagement: He also enjoyed a seven-year union with Australian star Delta Goodrem and the pair were engaged before calling it off in April 2011

Second spouse: Brian then wed Irish beauty Vogue Williams in Florence back in 2012, but they split three years later

'a certainj (sic) pig faced mole has suggested my own daughter lilly doesn't know me and that i never speak to my kids..'

Brian later apologised to fans for the rant and deleted the posts from his page.

The Flying Without Wings hit-maker had moved Down Under to be with Delta and their split after seven years together came as a shock at the time.

They issued a statement reading: 'This decision has been made with a lot of soul searching from both parties with the realisation that they have grown apart.

'They leave the partnership with respect for one and other, wishing each other success and happiness for the future.’

Happy families: Brian raises daughters Molly, 18, (left) and Lilly-Sue, 16, (centre) with his first wife Kerry. He is pictured with his baby niece and Danielle (right)

Just over a year later, Brian made it down the aisle for a second time with Irish beauty Vogue.

The pair tied the knot in Florence in July 2012 following a whirlwind romance, but they split three years later.

The singer previously confessed he was no longer in touch with Vogue, who has since moved on with husband Spencer Matthews, the father of her son Theodore, 18 months.

'It's very difficult to remain friends unless you've got children. I think it's pointless as it's going to get in the way of you having a future with other people', he told Closer magazine.

However, he said he wishes Vogue nothing but the best for the future, adding: 'I am delighted for her and I hope she has a lovely family. [Spencer] is a great guy'.

Brian confessed he found it most difficult to get over no longer seeing Vogue's pet dog Winston as the pooch was his 'best friend'.