Between the birth of her first child, an incredibly successful Netflix special and forth season of her popular podcast, 3 Girls 1 Keith, she's had a very big year.

And Amy Schumer, 38, paved through the memories on Sunday, sharing her top nine moments for fans.

Included in the collage was an never-seen-before photo from the moment she welcomed her son, Gene Attell Fischer, into the world.

Scroll down for video

Special moment: Amy Schumer shared a never-seen-before photo from the birth of her son, Gene, on Sunday, as she wrapped up a 'very good year' for her Instagram followers

'It was a very good year,' she captioned.

The photo on the middle row on the far left showcased the moment the doctor handed Gene to Amy at his birth.

The new mom was lying down on the hospital bed while being passed the crying baby.

Wrapping up 2019: Amy shared her top nine moments on social media for her followers

Not all happy times: Another shot had the comedian on all fours on the bathroom floor while she appeared to be throwing up

Amy revealed earlier in the year that she found giving birth 'terrifying.'

'Giving birth is the most terrifying thing you’ll ever do that’s completely worth it,' she told People in October.

'Having a c-section was … my pregnancy was so hard, I was just very ready to meet my son.'

Last week she shared a photo on Instagram where she noted that having a c-section was 'her choice.'

Family: Another photo had Amy, Chris and Gene spend some time at the beach together

Fifth of the fifth! Gene was born on May 5, 2019 and is Amy's first child

Gene was born on May 5, 2019. She has since shared photos of her c-section scar - even turning it into a face.

Another shot had the comedian on all fours on the bathroom floor while she appeared to be throwing up.

Amy suffered from a bad bout of hyperemis gravidarum - a severe form of morning sickness, during her pregnancy.

The comedian also shared a photo with her husband Chris and new bub as they enjoyed a family hike to a waterfall.

Her choice: Amy revealed last week that she had elected to have a c-section

Not all smooth sailing: Amy suffered from a bad bout of hyperemis gravidarum - a severe form of morning sickness, during her pregnancy

Amy rocked a blue tank top and matched Chis as he gave her a kiss on her head.

The middle shot on the top row saw a still from her Netflix comedy special where she lifted up her dress to show her underwear and burgeoning baby bump.

Reports have revealed that Amy was paid $13 million for her Growing special, following her $11 million cash in for her previous 1 hour Netflix show, The Leather Special.

It was reported in 2017 that her team asked for more money following The Leather Special after learning that male comedians Chris Rock and Dave Chappelle had earned $20 million each for their time.

Baring all! The middle shot on the top row saw a still from her Netflix comedy special where she lifted up her dress to show her underwear and burgeoning baby bump

Cashing it in: Reports have revealed that Amy was paid $13 million for her Growing special, following her $11 million cash in for her previous 1 hour Netflix show, The Leather Special

Following the news, she made it clear that she was never looking to make $20 million like the veteran comedians were.

'I believe women deserve equal pay,' she said on Instagram at the time.

'However I don’t believe I deserve equal pay to Chris and Dave. They are legends and [two] of the greatest comics of all time.'

'I would like to say that I have been selling out arenas these last couple years. Something a female comic has never done. That’s a big deal to me, especially because I know I do my best every night on stage for the audience and they have a good time. I didn’t ask for the same as my friends. I did ask for more than the initial offer.'

Amy will next be seen in upcoming drama film, The Humans.

It will see her join Jayne Houdyshell, Richard Jenkins and Beanie Feldsteign all part of a family who assembles for Thanksgiving and has to deal with each other's issues.

The film is currently in post-production.