Tottenham striker Son Heung-min was sent off for violent conduct to compound a miserable day for Tottenham as Chelsea secured a 2-0 win over their bitter rivals.

The jet-heeled South Korea talisman was given his marching orders following a lengthy VAR check after appearing to push his studs into marker Antonio Rudiger's ribs when the pair collided in the second half.

Spurs were already 2-0 down courtesy of Chelsea winger Willian's first-half double when Son was dismissed with 62 minutes gone.

Heung-min Son was sent off after VAR adjudged that he had kicked out at Antonio Rudiger

Rudiger went down clutching his ribs following the kick from Son and the decision went to VAR

The Tottenham striker was absolutely stunned after being sent off against Chelsea on Sunday

VAR again stoked controversy as a check adjudged the Tottenham livewire to have lashed out at defender Rudiger, who collapsed to the floor and vigorously appealed to referee Anthony Taylor after the tangle.

The decision ensured a tempestuous end to what had already been a typically full-blooded London derby between the two bitter rivals.

Manager Jose Mourinho remonstrated with the officials and consoled Son as he made his way off the pitch in disbelief, having dropped to his knees when Taylor produced the red card.

The South Korea star was overcome with emotion after he was shown the red card on Sunday

Jose Mourinho looked to console his player as he walked off the pitch and down the tunnel

England captain Harry Kane also attempted to comfort Son, whose red card for a foul on Andre Gomes that left the Everton midfielder with a serious long-term injury was overturned following a gruesome incident at Goodison Park on November 3.

A sarcastic Mourinho told Sky Sports after the game: 'I hope Rudiger will recover quickly from the broken ribs, because for sure he will have a few broken ribs.

'When you are frustrated you can have these emotional reactions which the referee and, obviously, the VAR have to analyse.

'For me, that red card is a strange one but I don't want to be focused on that because my team lost and I have to be complimentary to our opponents and congratulate them for our victory.

'Against Everton, Son was crying because of what happened to Andre Gomes. Now he is crying again because Antonio Rudiger broke a few ribs.'

Mourinho was unable to inspire a riposte as his out-of-sorts side suffered a first defeat in four

Chelsea ended a run of two consecutive Premier League defeats by winning a fiery derby 2-0

Depleted Spurs slumped to their first home defeat under the Portuguese, beaten by Willian's eye-catching 12th-minute strike and confident penalty beyond goalkeeper Paulo Gazzaniga on the stroke of half-time.

The win cemented Chelsea's place in fourth in the Premier League and gave Blues boss Frank Lampard victory over Mourinho, with whom he won the Premier League during his time as a player at Stamford Bridge.

Mild-mannered striker Son also saw red on another glum day for Spurs on May 4, when they had two men sent off in a 1-0 Premier League defeat at Bournemouth.