A former school nurse who runs a dog accessory business has been inundated with orders thanks to Downing Street’s newest four-legged resident.

Kim O’Donnell, 58, decided to send the Prime Minister’s dog Dilyn a gift package after seeing him working hard as he canvassed for the Conservative party.

The Staffordshire-based business owner made the dog his own limited edition Christmas lead, collar and bandanna and sent it to Boris Johnson’s partner Carrie Symonds.

Dilyn was seen with Boris Johnson on the day of the general election wearing a special collar supplied by former nurse turned dog accessory entrepreneur Kim O'Donnell

The Staffordshire based business owner made the dog his own limited edition Christmas lead, collar and bandanna. She's seen with her dogs Leo and Charley

She was over the moon when she saw Dilyn using the lead in the weeks coming up to the election but never expected him to model the full set as he accompanied that Prime Minister to Westminster polling station.

With pictures of Jack Russell-cross Dilyn adorning the front pages of Friday’s papers following the Conservative win, Mrs O’Donnell has been inundated with orders for her unique creations.

She said: ‘I’d seen Dilyn working so hard canvassing for his owners and just thought it would be really nice to send him a special little package.

‘I have two dogs myself, Leo and Charley, so I wrote to Carrie with a note for Dilyn saying ‘Leo and Charley have instructed me to send you this as a thank you for the hard work you’ve done to raise the profile of dogkind’.

‘I couldn’t believe it when I checked my Twitter a few days later and saw Dilyn wearing the lead I’d made especially for him!

‘I Tweeted Carrie to let her know how amazing Dilyn looked and was amazed when she replied to say he loved his present!

‘Dilyn wore the full collar and bandanna when he went to vote with Boris and suddenly my creations were all over the news, it was incredible.

‘I’ve got the ones Dilyn wore on my website available to buy and I’ve been inundated with orders, I’ve only got seven left!’

The entrepeneur was over the moon when she saw Dilyn using the lead in the weeks coming up to the election but never expected him to model the full set as he accompanied that Prime Minister to Westminster polling station

The business owner started off making collars and bandannas as a hobby last year as a way of helping her rescue cocker spaniel Charley look more feminine.

Her creations were a hit with friends and family who started requesting sets for their own pets.

Mrs O’Donnell had been working as a school nurse at the time but retired early in June 2019 after arthritis caused by an autoimmune disease made her job difficult.

Setting up ‘Leo Charley & Me’ six months ago, she has been steadily growing her dog accessory company through visiting dog shows and county fairs to sell her products.

She creates the cute accessories from her home in the village of Weston, near Staffordshire, that she shares with her husband, retired headmaster Clive O’Donnell, 60, and their two dogs Leo and Charley.

She sent the accessories to Dilyn's owner Carrie Symonds - pictured - who clearly took a liking to them

Mrs O’Donnell said: ‘With rescue dogs being close to the heart of our business, we donate 15 per cent of our profits to the charity Spaniel Aid UK who helped our lovely girl Charley.

‘I know Dilyn is a rescue dog himself, which is the main reason I wanted to send him a little present for his hard work.

‘I do think it’s amazing that Dilyn has got a second chance at life because he’s been rescued and now look at him, living with the Prime Minister at 10 Downing Street!’

All of her creations are crafted by her own hand, usually using discarded materials destined for the landfill, meaning many are one-of-a-kind.

The products that Dilyn has been modelling are the ‘Christmas Pudding’ collar and bandanna - a bright turquoise background with tiny robins and Christmas puddings.

Dilyn’s package of lead, collar and bandanna would cost the standard customer £40 for the set and is still available on the company’s website.

Mrs O’Donnell added: ‘I’m working hard and posting packages daily and it’s just been wonderful logging on to social media to see people loving my creations on Dilyn.

‘I never expected him to wear the full set when he went to vote, but it’s been so rewarding and I’ve loved reading everybody’s comments.’