Prince George will learn how to kindle fire and carve wood in a series of school lessons as fears grow over 'hothousing' pupils.

Thomas's Battersea in London, attended by Prince George, six, and Princess Charlotte, four, has overhauled its timetable to teach one in five lessons outdoors.

Outdoor Education plays a key part in the curriculum which Thomas's say on their website: 'Offers children unique opportunities and experiences that cannot be taught within the constraints of their everyday education and surroundings.'

George (pictured) will get to grips with how to kindle fire by the age of eight and by nine he will learn how to whittle wood. Pictured at the RHS Chelsea Flower Show with Prince Louis and the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge

The school (pictured) is working alongside The Exploration Society to deliver the outdoor skills in a bid to cut back on tests and ease pressure off young pupils

George will get to grips with how to kindle fire by the age of eight and by nine he will learn how to whittle wood, according to The Sunday Times.

The school is working alongside The Exploration Society to deliver the outdoor skills in a bid to cut back on tests and ease pressure off young pupils.

Thomas's, which charges up to £6,429 for children aged four to seven, also has schools in Fulham, Kensington and Clapham.

The school owns a chalet in Austria named Thomas's Daheim, meaning, Thomas's At Home and is believed to be the only one in England to do so.

Prince George and Princess Charlotte at the Back to Nature garden at the RHS Chelsea Flower Show in London in May

Paul Wild, Thomas's head of Outdoor Education, said: 'It would be naive not to be concerned about the rise of hothousing and mental health pressures on children.'

The timetable will be rolled across all four schools and start in the new year.

School principal Tobyn Thomas said the skills are vital for children later in life and are 'hard to teach in the classroom'.

The Duchess of Cambridge was seen chatting to children enjoying one of the garden swings on display at RHS Garden Wisley in Surrey in September

It comes after the Duchess of Cambridge spoke of the importance of getting children outside as she opened her Back to Nature play garden at RHS Garden Wisley in Surrey in September.

Kate's co-created gardens were previously exhibited at the Chelsea Flower Show and the Hampton Court Palace Garden Festival, with the aim of highlighting how time outdoors can enrich a child's early development.

Features included two connected treehouses and slides to encourage families and friends to have fun together in a natural environment.