While it's lovely to receive a designer handbag or a piece of jewellery at Christmas, the most romantic gifts are more about the thought behind the item and less about the price tag.

Show that your relationship's key milestones like the date you met or the date you did something special mean as much to you as they do to your partner with a thoughtful gift that may make them cry. Happy tears, of course!

We've rounded up eight romantic gift ideas that celebrate experiences you've had together and help you to make some more special memories.

Heart Shape Chocolate Fondue Kit, £7.99

A heart shaped fondue set will be the perfect excuse to cancel all plans and have a romantic couple's night in.

This affordable gift will strengthen the love you have for each other as chocolate contains two chemicals that have aphrodisiac properties. Tryptophan is a building block of serotonin, a brain chemical involved in sexual arousal while phenylethylamine is released in the brain when people fall in love.

Start off by dipping strawberries, marshmallows and biscuits into the runny chocolate then get creative.

Buy now on Amazon

Personalised Star Map 80x60m, £39.90

Significant achievements like a wedding, the date you met or the day you moved into your first home often feel like the stars are aligning just for you.

You can now find the stars that were in the sky at a specific hour of a key date and immortalise them forever with a personalised star map.

You can choose from our range of nine striking background colours from simple black or white to dark purple or pastel pink and then add a grid system or a constellation chart. You can also add customised text for an even more personal touch.

Buy now at My-Picture

Bespoke Fragrance Customisation, £550

Declare your love for each other by sharing the same special scent, something that only the two of you have.

Luxury British perfume house Floris is selling gift boxes for fragrance customisation sessions, during which you can come up with a scent that summarises your relationships and the aromas that evoke your senses.

The two hour bespoke appointment will take place at Floris' Mayfair shop, where you will be guided by an expert nose. The blend is then labelled with a unique name chosen by you and stored in Floris' archives so you can reorder when you run out.

Buy now on Floris London

Personalised Mr & Mrs Bath Robes, £54.95

Couples that chill together stay together and these personalised bath robes are a way to relax in style.

Made from 100 per cent high thread count cotton, the women's robe is white with Mrs written in gold on the left chest and the men's robe has Mr in gold in the same place.

These are perfect for long lazy mornings, breakfast in bed when you've just shared a lovely long soak together. However, you may find they're so comfortable that you'll want to shed your clothes the moment you get in the house and wear robes all the time.

Buy now on Amazon

Cuddles In The Kitchen Neon Light, £345

A good cuddle is one of the best means of physical affection and intimacy. It's also scientifically proven to be good for us, releasing the hormone oxytocin, which boosts our mood and aids the immune system.

As this bright white neon light broadcasts out Cuddles In The Kitchen, you'll be prompted to have a cheeky squeeze which will in turn bring you closer together.

If you've just had an argument or the other person's done something to annoy you, it's a great way of reigniting the bond you share.

Buy now at Bag and Bones

Chanel L'huile Rose Massage Body Oil, £172

There's massage oil and then there's luxury body oil and nothing screams 'I Love You' like a bottle of Chanel.

Initially created for the Chanel spa in the Ritz Paris hotel, this body oil enhances the art of massage, which is a lovely bonding experience with your partner.

The l'huile rose fragrance is composed of 98 per cent naturally derived ingredients and enriched with Helianthus annuus flower oil, chosen for its purity and biocompatibility with the skin. It's a delicate floral smell with fruity notes and a woody base so enjoyable for both men and women.

Buy now on Chanel

Personalised Song Lyrics, Heart Print, from £12.90

Do you remember the music that was playing on the day you first met? Is there a special song that played at your wedding? Capture the moment forever and display it proudly for all to see with this cute heart print poster.

Each time you look at it, you'll be transported back to the happiest of times. This simple poster transforms a house into a home by the sheer amount of love that's captured within the heart.

Prices start at £12.90 for A4 and increase for A3 or A2 sizes.

Buy now on Amazon

One Night Classic Paris Break For Two With Seine Cruise, £479

Paris is officially the most romantic city in the world so if you truly want to buy your loved one something special this Christmas then treat them to a trip to the French capital.

When you purchase this experience you'll receive a personalised voucher and message card, and have up to nine months to book a date for your mini break.

Included is Eurostar travel for two, a one night stay with breakfast in central 3* accommodation and two tickets for you to experience Paris on board a Bateaux Parisian Trimaran on The Seine. Ooh la la!

Buy now on Virgin Experience Days

Check out our discount section for Christmas deals and offers.

MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.