Lucy McHugh's killer has bragged of getting Xbox for Christmas after receiving a prison beating from inmates who found out he had raped and murdered a teen girl.

Stephen Nicholson, 25, was jailed for life earlier this year after stabbing the 13-year-old 27 times following vile abuse while lodging in her family home in Southampton.

In a letter obtained by The Sunday People, Nicholson claimed that fellow inmates at HMP Wakefield beat him up when they learned of his heinous crimes.

Nicholson also boasted about being able to play a £200 Xbox gaming console in his prison cell.

Stephen Nicholson, 25, was jailed for life earlier this year after stabbing the 13-year-old 27 times following vile abuse while lodging at her family's home in Southampton

'I thought an X Box would help pass the time whilst I'm locked away in my cell, plus I can play DVDs on an X Box so won't have to buy a DVD player,' the pervert wrote.

Nicholson claims he was recently beaten up by inmates but has an Xbox in his prison cell

'They don't let us play online LOL. We have no access to the internet, only the prison officers have internet in here.'

Nicholson also described how a group of prisoners had ambushed him and a wing of the high security prison was put on lock-down.

'They were sat on the wing reading the newspaper as I walked,' he wrote. 'Within a couple of seconds I had about 10 men stood around me.

'One of them threw a punch that hit me in the mouth then a prison officer put me in a cell and locked the door and a guy came to the door, pulled a knife out and said he was going to cut my throat open when my door was opened.'

He claims that everyone on the wing was locked in their cells in the aftermath.

Despite the letter, a Prison Service spokesman said: 'There's no record of Mr Nicholson being assaulted while in custody nor of him being given (or plans to give him) an Xbox.'

Nicholson was sentenced to at least 33 years in July at Winchester Crown Court for Lucy's murder in July 2018, as well as three counts of rape when she was aged 12.

Sentencing Nicholson to life imprisonment, Mrs Justice May, said: 'This was a pitiless attack on a child following months of sexual exploitation.

'The prosecution has described it as an execution and I am satisfied this is correct.

Lucy suffered 27 knife wounds in a brutal, frenzied attack, with three 'very dangerous' cuts to the carotid artery in her neck which caused her death

'The combination of his cold narcissism and hot anger dictated that she had to be put out of the way and he saw to it that this was done.'

Nicholson had lured Lucy to woodland at the outdoor Southampton Sports Centre on July 25 last year where he stabbed her 27 times in the neck and upper body.

He carried out the 'premeditated' murder to silence Lucy who had threatened to reveal his year-long sexual abuse of her while living as a lodger in her family home.