A brand new initiative is opening its doors in London, all the while breaking exciting ground as it pushes the empowerment of women.

Curated Soho is the brainchild of Amar Singh - who has worked tirelessly in recent years to promote women and those from the LGBTQ+ community in the arts.

But the gallery owner, 30, has taken his ambitions to fight the good fight one step further, by launching his luxury long and short-stay apartment residences in the heart of the capital.

A brand new initiative is opening its doors in London, all the while breaking exciting ground as it pushes the empowerment of women

The first of its kind, Curated Soho will play host to its guests, with 22 stunning short and long-stay apartment rooms and facilities, as well as a penthouse and a separate restaurant downstairs, but with one major twist: it is bedecked with artwork, design and products created solely by female-led artists, brands and companies.

Amar, however, is a man; something he admits raises eyebrows amid particular misanthropes.

'I'm often questioned about having ulterior motives and profiting from woman, when I am, obviously, male. But there will always be naysayers,' he told FeMail.

His track record, however, speaks for itself: before his 30th birthday, he made Forbes' 2019 30 Under 30 Europelist for his work championing women in art.

Curated Soho is the brainchild of Amar Singh - who has worked tirelessly in recent years to promote women and those from the LGBTQ+ community in the arts

The first of its kind, Curated Soho will play host to its guests, with 22 stunning short and long-stay apartment rooms and facilities, as well as a penthouse and a separate restaurant downstairs

His Islington gallery, Amar Gallery, has done so for two years now - but artists such as Ellen Camilla Rose, Paola Bazz and Marianne Hendriks are now being given an even vaster platform. Their works will adorn the walls and hallways of Curated Soho - for those looking to experience travel and leisure in London.

Whether they intend to or not, guests will be surrounded by stunning works of art and unique furnishings and fittings, by women who are - or have been - somewhat underrepresented in the creative world.

What's more, these products, these artworks and this furniture is available to buy.

Not only are the creatives involved being represented via an exciting new platform, they are making a profit.

Curated Soho is bedecked with artwork, design and products created solely by female-led artists, brands and companies [pictured: artworks by Mimai Lazulite]

The short and long-term residences are designed with a modern twist [pictured: designs by Lucia Fraser]

Yet Amar still gets the occasional grief. Even from women!

'I am always astounded by women who accuse me of championing certain women but insist to me that there are men who are better. It blows my mind,' he said.

'There is this global patriarchal society and women have obviously been suppressed. But if women were celebrated more it wouldn't be patriarchal.'

But what of the fact that Amar is a man? He has an answer.

'I'm the Creative Director, not the CEO. And that's because we are looking for an amazing female leader. We want to lead by example. We want a female-led team predominantly.'

Simone Webb's works will be displayed and up for sale in the rooms

'I am always astounded by women who accuse me of championing certain women but insist to me that there are men who are better. It blows my mind,' Amar said [pictured: how the rooms' living spaces are set out, overlooked by statement artworks]

The penthouse at Curated Soho will be adorned with stunning, empowering works [pictured: the art of Rebecca Fontaine-Wolf arriving on site]

Amar’s grandmother was Veena Singh. She died in 2017, three years from turning 100, and championed the rights of women pre and post-India’s independence. She received the Presidents Award from India’s first Prime Minster Jawaharlal Nehru.

The family's ancestor, Rajkumari Amrit Kaur (1889 –1964), is considered India’s greatest women’s rights activist and was India's first Health Minister, who worked alongside Mahatma Gandhi fighting for equality. She founded India's first women's education fund.

'There is a charitable element to what we are doing. It's philanthropic,' Amar said, further asserting that his mission is far from parti pris. 'Patriarchy means these women have not been given the right opportunities. I like to think that Curated is a leader.

'We are championing women in the creative industry across the board and supporting charitable organisations while we're at it, as well.'

As well as the artists involved, brands collaborating with Curated Soho include the likes of Vitaclean [pictured] and Double Dutch Tonic Water

Ceramics from Lucia Fraser will be featured at Curated Soho

Pictured are artworks by Marianne Nix and Mimai Lazulite

Indeed, the likes of Drop4drop - a charity using funds to provide clean drinking water in developing countries worldwide - and the Andrea Bocelli Foundation, for which Amar is a patron - aiming to empower people and communities in situations of poverty, illiteracy and distress due to illness and social exclusion - are involved in Curated.

This initiative has been in the works all year and, as Amar admits, 'it's been all hands on deck,' in the lead-up to the launch.

'It's been a bit of a race but I'm proud to say that we've got there,' he said. 'We are launching with over 100 female partners and 150 artworks involved. We have 60 of the best emerging artists, mostly from the UK.

'And we are sure to support local artists, too. Many haven't been given the opportunities to have their works showcased. We collaborate with these women because we consider them to be our bosses as well as ambassadors. We have pushed forward for these deserving women, in an important time. A time of #TimesUp and #MeToo.'

Curated Soho can be found at Golden Square, Soho, London, and is now open for bookings [pictured: artwork by Simone Webb]

Pictured are how the bathrooms at Curated Soho will be laid out

The family's ancestor, Rajkumari Amrit Kaur (1889 –1964), is considered India’s greatest women’s rights activist and was India's first Health Minister, who worked alongside Mahatma Gandhi [both are pictured]

Despite his own prestigious achievements and connections, Amar remains unostentatious.

'We are humbled that so many amazing women have agreed to work with us and bring this to life,' he said. 'And just to see the looks on the artists' faces when they see their work on display at the building - they are elated and thrilled. It just creates a sense of joy and I love that.'

As well as the artists involved, brands collaborating with Curated Soho include the likes of travel product brand This Way - who will supply certain room amenities such as unique silk sleeping masks - as well as Double Dutch Tonic Water - for the room bars - and Lucia Fraser's ceramics.

'Every partner has been paid,' Amar asserted, in conclusion. 'The art and design has been bought. And when you invest in and celebrate women, communities thrive.'

Curated Soho can be found at Golden Square, Soho, London, and is now open for bookings.