A body has been found near a rural cabin in northwestern Michigan where a 47-year-old Detroit-area woman went missing in October after desperately caling a friend so say she had been involved in a shoot out.

The last known communication with Adrienne Quintal, 47, was through a family friend on October 17, according to her sister, Jenny Bryson.

She said Quintal called the friend at 2:34am to say she was involved in a shootout with two men who were outside the cabin while she was inside.

She had not been seen since.

Family members called authorities in Benzie County about 1:30pm Saturday to report finding the body in a flooded area on the family's property near Honor, the Traverse City Record-Eagle reported.

'Today we found her,' read a post on a social media account supporting the search.

'We are heartbroken as the search did not have a positive ending.'

Benzie County Undersheriff Kyle Rosa, deputies and a medical examiner recovered the body.

Adrienne Quintal (pictured), 47, went missing in October after a shootout at a cabin

Quintal (left) disappeared on October 17 after she called a friend saying she'd been involved in a gun battle with two men. Family members shared a Facebook post earlier this month saying that cadaver 'dogs (right) did not find Ada in the woods around the cabin today'

In her last communication, Quintal told a friend she had shot one man in the face and was exchanging gunfire with another. The cabin is seen in the photo above

An autopsy was planned to identify the body and determine a cause of death.

In the last phone call with Quintal, her friend says she told of a shootout at the rural cabin.

She reportedly said that she had shot one man in the face and the other shot at her, according to Bryson.

Authorities found multiple bullet holes in the empty cabin and shell casings on the ground from what appeared to be multiple guns.

Bullet holes were seen in the windows, including evidence of shots fired from inside

Cops 'observed evidence of possible foul play' and Quintal's keys, car and wallet were left behind as well as a handgun registered in her name

No evidence that someone had been shot or injured was found, but evidence was found suggesting shots were fired out of the cabin from the inside.

Quintal's 9mm handgun also was found on the ground and her boots and cellphone on the roof.

Honor is about 20 miles southwest of Traverse City and 254 miles northwest of Detroit.

The body found Saturday was in about three feet of water in an area where searchers had looked for Quintal, WPBN-TV reported.

The ground around the cabin is swampy and nearly impassable in some areas, making a search very difficult, Rosa said.

Last month, Quintal's family increased a reward for information about her disappearance from $2,500 to $100,000

Quintal's loved ones have searched beyond the police area, according to her son (pictured)

Her son shared this map that showed in red where authorities had looked with K9 dogs and other markings of where loved ones had searched

'We're hopeful that it's Quintal so that we can close out our case and we can bring closure to the family, finally,' Rosa said.

'It's been a long road for them, and they've been sticking with it and being positive and trying to be on the positive end of things.'

In the days before she vanished, Quintal had spent time at the cabin with her boyfriend who was not identified.

Her son said the boyfriend had left Honor, Michigan, two days before and returned home to Southfield.

'He was up there with her, he came home to drop supplies off, we are working on the condo here,' her son Nick White previously told Fox 2.

'She was also just getting ready for hunting and hanging out and enjoying the wildlife.'

The boyfriend has been designated a person of interest by authorities.