She celebrated her one-year wedding anniversary to husband Alex Bowen in September with a romantic trip to Santorini.

And Olivia Buckland was clearly feeling nostalgic on Monday ahead of the new year as she shared a cheeky throwback snap from her Greece getaway.

In the snap, the Love Island star, 26, looked sensational as she showcased her peachy posterior in tiny blue thong bikini.

Feeling nostalgic: Olivia Buckland was clearly feeling nostalgic on Monday ahead of the new year as she shared a cheeky throwback snap from her Greece getaway in September

Putting her best foot forward, Olivia turned to face and smile to the camera as she held onto her white straw hat.

The blonde beauty captioned the photo with: 'A photo to break up the Christmas vibes.'

Olivia's post comes after an estimate from Heat magazine’s Rich List 2019 claimed that the reality star and husband Alex have made the most money from the show due to a host of collaborations with clothing brands, TV deals and work with beauty lines.

The magazine has published a rich list for nine years and with the help of company accounts, endorsement deals and TV contracts, the wealth of under-30 entertainers who are residents in the UK are estimated.

Stunning: The Love Island star, 26, celebrated her one-year wedding anniversary to husband Alex Bowen in September with a romantic trip to Santorini (pictured)

Olivia and Alex, formerly a sales executive and scaffolder, soared to fame in 2016 when they appeared on the ITV2 reality show, where she was an original star and he a late and extremely popular entrant.

While their romance was initially thrown into despair when he enjoyed a night of passion with Zara Holland, which resulted in her losing her Miss Great Britain title and quitting the show, things soon flourished for the duo.

After leaving the villa their romance soon when from strength to strength and Alex popped the question in New York in 2016.

Smitten: The loved-up couple tied the knot in a luxurious Essex ceremony two years after meeting on Love Island during series two (pictured during their one-year anniversary trip in September)

In the run up to their big day they starred on Say Yes to the Dress and then gave fans a glimpse into the big day on their own wedding show Olivia and Alex Said Yes.

The loved-up couple tied the knot in a luxurious Essex ceremony two years after meeting on Love Island during series two.

Their star-studded day secured them a a lucrative £25,000 magazine deal and saw reality stars such as Gabby Allen, Pete Wicks, Tina Stinnes and Kady McDermott attend.