Mikel Arteta took his first training session since becoming Arsenal boss as the 37-year-old got down to work with his players.

The Spaniard joined the Gunners from Manchester City, where he was assistant manager under Pep Guardiola.

The Gunners former midfielder takes over from caretaker manager Freddie Ljungberg after City failed to assure him he would be the successor to Guardiola.

Mikel Arteta took his first training session with Arsenal since becoming their head coach

Arteta joined from Manchester City where he was assistant manager under Pep Guardiola

The club legend got involved with training himself as he aims to make a fast start to his reign

The former Gunners midfielder got a sweat on as he gives pointers to Nicolas Pepe (far left)

All the Arsenal squad listened in as their new coach spoke to them at Arsenal Training Centre

The session seemed to mainly involve players who didn't feature in Arsenal's 0-0 draw with Everton, where Arteta was watching on from the stands alongside the club's hierarchy.

Arteta was animated as he delivered his first coaching session to the players - an attribute he would have likely picked up from Guardiola at City.

Star players Alexandre Lacazette, Nicolas Pepe, Matteo Guendouzi and Mesut Ozil were all involved in training, playing competitive small-sided drills.

Arteta (right) was seen giving plenty of advice to Greek defender Sokratis Papastathopoulos

Sokratis has struggled in Arsenal's leaky defence this season and was all ears for the new boss

Matteo Guendouzi was another taking instructions from Arteta as they play in a similar style

Ozil took part at the Arsenal Training Centre despite all the criticism he has received after his substitution spat against Manchester City that led him to not being included in the matchday squad for the Everton match.

Arteta was getting right down to business with his new group as he has a busy schedule to get him started.

Arsenal face Bournemouth on Boxing Day before two tough fixtures against Chelsea and Manchester United either side of New Years.

The 37-year-old watched on from the stands as his new side struggled against Everton in an uninspiring performance.

All eyes will be on Arsenal's trip to the Vitality Stadium on December 26 to see whether Arteta's, albeit short, time on the training pitch will have an instant impact.

Mesut Ozil took part in the session despite all the criticism he got for his recent sub spat

Alexandre Lacazette was all smiles as he looked ready to make an impression on his new boss