Dramatic video filmed off the coast of Southern California on Saturday shows a Coast Guard helicopter crew rescue a 37-year-old surfer who was bitten in the leg by a shark near Santa Barbara.

The shark bit the surfer on Saturday afternoon in what the Coast Guard calls a 'truly terrifying situation.'

The bite victim had been surfing near Santa Rosa Island, one of the Channel Islands, during the attack, according to a news release.

A friend aboard a nearby boat applied a tourniquet to his leg and called the Coast Guard for help, the release stated.

Coast Guard video taken off the coast of Santa Barbara in Southern California shows a helicopter crew pulling up a wounded surfer

The 37-year-old man had been surfing near Santa Rosa Island, one of the Channel Islands, during the attack

The man is seen with a tourniquet wrapped around his right leg as he is lifted into the Coast Guard helicopter

A helicopter crew flew the man to the Santa Barbara airport for treatment and he was in stable condition Saturday evening.

Coast Guard video footage posted on Twitter shows the man, wearing a full-body wetsuit, being hoisted up from the boat into the helicopter.

'This was the best possible outcome to a truly terrifying situation,' Coast Guard Lt. Benjamin McIntyre-Coble said in the release.

Officials have yet to identify the victim. There is also no word as to what kind of shark was involved.

Shark attacks are extremely rare in California, according to the state’s Department of Fish and Wildlife.

The above map shows the area where the shark attack took place on Saturday afternoon

Since 1950, there have been just 187 recorded incidents in which a shark either approached or touched a human in the water or that person’s surfboard, kayak, or paddleboard.

While the beachgoing population has increased in California due to overall population growth, the number of shark attacks has not risen in proportion.

But this past decade has seen an uptick in the number of shark incidents.

In the 2010s, there were 50 shark incidents. Of those, two of them resulted in death while 18 people suffered non-fatal injuries.

Most of these cases - 32 - resulted in no injury.

In the 2000s, there were just 41 shark incidents, with three of those resulting in death and 17 resulting in non-fatal injuries.

The population of white sharks, which were once considered endangered, has risen significantly in recent decades thanks to environmental protection legislation.

In October, two men had their kayak partially destroyed by a shark which bit into it, leaving two teeth behind as a souvenir.

The two men, Danny McDaniel and his diving partner John Chambers, both of San Diego, were unharmed.