Dominic Raab and Mike Pompeo have exchanged gushing messages over Twitter as their special relationship 'strengthens'.

The US secretary of state praised Britain's foreign secretary for being reelected to Parliament in the General Election on December 12.

Mr Pompeo wrote: 'Congratulations, @DominicRaab on your reelection to parliament. I look forward to continuing to strengthen the most successful partnership in the world through close cooperation in tackling global challenges. #SideBySide.'

Mr Raab replied: 'Many thanks @SecPompeo - I look forward to us taking the friendship from strength to strength, and tackling common international challenges together.'

Mr Pompeo wrote: 'Congratulations, @DominicRaab on your reelection to parliament. I look forward to continuing to strengthen the most successful partnership in the world through close cooperation in tackling global challenges. #SideBySide'

Mr Raab replied: 'Many thanks @SecPompeo - I look forward to us taking the friendship from strength to strength, and tackling common international challenges together'

It comes at a testing time in the Raab (left)/Pompeo (right), following the fallout over US citizen Anne Sacoolas

It comes at a testing time in the pair's relationship following the fallout over US citizen Anne Sacoolas.

Harry Dunn's family were 'incredibly reassured' to meet with Home Secretary Priti Patel today, as her office considers extraditing the US suspect charged with causing the teenager's death by dangerous driving.

Ms Patel sat down with Harry's father Tim Dunn just days after the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said it had authorised Northamptonshire Police to charge Sacoolas.

Harry's mother Charlotte Charles did not attend the meeting in north Oxfordshire.

The CPS has said extradition proceedings had started, noting that the 'Home Office is responsible for considering our request and deciding whether to formally issue this through US diplomatic channels'.

Home Secretary Priti Patel leaving a meeting with the family of Harry Dunn in north Oxfordshire, as a spokesman has said that her office is considering extraditing the US suspect

Speaking after the meeting Ms Patel said she was 'very grateful' to the family for meeting her during such a difficult and traumatic time.

She added: 'It was a nice opportunity to hear from them, obviously about what they have been experiencing, what they have been going through, and to reassure them at what has been a very difficult and traumatic time for them.'

Dunn family spokesman Radd Seiger said the family were reassured by Ms Patel's visit that the case would be dealt with under the law.

He added: 'We feel incredibly reassured that this whole saga will be dealt with under the rule of law.

'You hear from some of the most senior politicians in this country that this will be dealt with under the rule of law, absolutely you go to bed feeling reassured.'

Harry Dunn, 19, was riding a motorcycle outside RAF Croughton in Northamptonshire in August when he was struck and killed

Harry's parents Tim and Charlotte have said they feel reassured after a meeting with the Home Secretary

Sacoolas, 42, and her family had been based at RAF Croughton in Northamptonshire. She sparked public outrage after her car allegedly hit the 19-year-old on August 27 and she claimed diplomatic immunity due to her husband's job.

It was only after she left the UK on a military flight directly from the air base that the Foreign Office wrote to the family to say immunity in her case was not valid.

Ms Sacoolas (pictured) claimed diplomatic immunity and was allowed to return to the US following the crash

After the Dunn family's campaign - which included a trip to the White House - the CPS brought the charge, a decision the US government labelled 'disappointing' and 'unhelpful'.

The meeting was also attended by South Northamptonshire MP Andrea Leadsom, who is the family's constituency MP.

Ms Leadsom said there was a 'clear process' of extradition and it was vital to get justice for Harry.

She added: 'As the Home Secretary has made clear we have a very clear process in the UK, there's a clear extradition treaty and it is absolutely vital that we get justice for Harry.'

Mr Seiger said the family was angry that Sacoolas was back in the US and felt she should never have been allowed to leave.

He added: 'They don't understand why this lady is back in America, they feel she should never have been allowed to go and should come back.

'This lady is absolutely entitled to a fair trial, she is guilty of nothing at the moment.'