Chelsea were awarded a penalty in the closing stages of the first half against Tottenham after VAR overturned a bizarre decision from referee Anthony Taylor.

With Chelsea leading 1-0 courtesy of a goal from Willian, Tottenham goalkeeper Paulo Gazzaniga raced forwards and ended up clattering into Chelsea defender Marcos Alonso.

Bizarrely, Taylor initially punished Alonso for the incident, with Tottenham being given a free-kick, but VAR was then consulted.

Tottenham goalkeeper Paulo Gazzaniga clattered into Chelsea defender Marcos Alonso

Anthony Taylor gave a free-kick against Alonso but the decision was overturned by VAR

Eventually the decision was overturned, with Chelsea being given a penalty and Gazzaniga receiving a yellow card.

Willian stepped up to take the penalty and ended up getting the better of Gazzaniga to make it 2-0.

Sky Sports commentator Gary Neville described Gazzaniga's challenge as 'an assault'.

Tottenham defender Serge Aurier looked perplexed as to why Gazzaniga had attempted such a challenge.

MARK CLATTENBURG How did Anthony Taylor get this the wrong way around? He awarded a free-kick to Tottenham at first, rather than a penalty to Chelsea. Well done to VAR for correcting their man on the ground. This was a clear foul by Paulo Gazzaniga on Marcos Alonso. It looked like a karate kick! If anything, Gazzaniga is fortunate that he did not connect with Alonso’s head, otherwise he would have been shown a red card. A yellow and penalty was the correct call in the end and Jose Mourinho can have no complaints about that. On the red card for Son Heung-min, he can have no complaints either. After the challenge, he makes a second movement with his studs and catches Antonio Rudiger in the chest. VAR was right again.

Gazzaniga was subsequently booked by Taylor, with Chelsea being awarded a penalty

There were several flashpoints during a tense first half, with VAR being needed for this incident

Willian scored his second goal of the game with a penalty after the decision was overturned

It was a heated first half at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium, with other flashpoints occurring.

For instance, Tottenham's Moussa Sissoko fouled Chelsea goalkeeper Kepa Arrizabalaga but wasn't booked.

In addition, Chelsea midfielder Mateo Kovacic was involved in a contretemps with opponent Dele Alli.