She shared her very first Vogue cover with one-year-old daughter Kulture.

But turns out photographing the glamorous mother-daughter moment was not easy.

The rapper, 27, revealed the spread was her 'hardest shoot to do ever' as she posted behind-the-scenes footage onto her Instagram account on Sunday.

Behind the scenes: Cardi B took to her Instagram to share never before seen footage of herself and her daughter Kulture during their Vogue photoshoot

The cover: On the cover, Cardi B sported a red dress while holding her daughter who hung out in her lap

In the caption, Cardi detailed the challenges she had that day, which included her daughter's dirty dress and persistent straight face.

'This was the hardest shoot to do ever.My baby dirty the dress ,she was up early in the morning (which she hates),and she had a straight face all day but .....WE MADE IT TO THE VOGUE COVER ! Thank you @voguemagazine,' she wrote alongside the video on her social media.

In the video, the Grammy-winning artist sported a red mid-length dress with small white polka dots on it as her daughter sat in between her legs.

Kulture wore a similar-colored dress and donned little braids.

Sweet: In the video, the Grammy-winning artist sported a red mid-length dress with small white polka dots on it as her daughter sat in between her legs

During her interview with the magazine, she opened up about her reasoning to stay with her husband Offset, 28, following his infidelity.

'When me and my husband got into our issues — you know, he cheated and everything — and I decided to stay with him and work together with him, a lot of people were so mad at me; a lot of women felt disappointed in me,' she revealed.

'But it's real-life shit. If you love somebody and you stop being with them, and you're depressed and social media is telling you not to talk to that person because he cheated, you're not really happy on the inside until you have the conversation. Then, if you get back with them, it's like, how could you? You let all of us down.'

Mom and daughter: Kulture rocked a similar dress to her mom, but not before long as Cardi revealed the dress got all 'dirty'

The Finesse singer went on to explain that she 'believes in forgiveness and said she 'prayed on it.'

'He has my back for everything, I have his back for everything.'

Cardi B and Offset got married back in 2017, and later split up back in December of last year. But that appears to be water under the bridge as they have reunited and are raising their daughter together.

Adorable: This is the first Vogue cover shoot for both Cardi B and her daughter. Cardi held on tight to her little one while posing for the camera

Party time: A few days ago, Cardi B and her husband Offset stepped out for Sean Combs' 50th birthday party