A mother-of-two who was found dead in a £500,000 home in a quiet Sussex village has been pictured for the first time.

Nelly Myers, 58, who worked as a British Airways air stewardess, was found dead at the detached three-bedroom property in Court Meadow Close, Rotherfield, on Wednesday.

A 35-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of murder on Thursday, and a 37-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of murder the following day. Both are from Crawley.

The victim was identified by neighbours, who said she worked for British Airways.

Nelly Myers, 58, is pictured on the left. The mother-of-two and BA air stewardess was found dead in a £500,000 homes in the quiet village of Rotherfield, Sussex

The woman in her 50s was discovered at the property (pictured) in Court Meadow Close, Rotherfield, Sussex. The house is pictured on Friday

Sussex police were called to the address following concerns for the welfare of the woman, the force said.

Flowers were laid at the scene by well-wishers this week. One message said: 'Dearest Nelly, you will be greatly missed.'

Shocked neighbour Malcolm Sargent, 72, said she originally came from Peru and had been living in the property with her two sons since her husband left five years ago.

'She was very friendly. She didn't mix too much but when she did she was very friendly. When she did chat she was a very happy woman. It's a quiet road,' he said.

'She lived there alone. She had two boys who used to live there they were brought up there. Her husband left about five years ago.

'It was their family home. She was so young. This has shocked us all. It is very, very sad.'

Christmas decorations can be seen in the front windows of the property (pictured) and lining the windows of the conservatory to the side. The house is pictured on Friday

Sussex Police were called to the address following concerns for the welfare of the woman, the force said. The house is pictured on Friday

Another neighbour, who did not wish to be named, said they were 'shocked' by what happened. 'We've not lived here long but it's shocking. She was a lovely, lovely person,' they said.

And a 21-year-old neighbour said she was a 'lovely woman', and added: 'Whenever you'd see her you could always have a chat. She always had a lot of time for people.'

A light blue Ford Fiesta remained parked on the drive of the large detached home on Friday.

Christmas decorations could be seen twinkling in the front windows and in the conservatory.

Police officers went door-to-door in the neighbourhood on Friday as they conducted enquiries.

Detectives said they have arrested a 35-year-old man as part of a 'fast moving investigation.' Pictured: Court Meadow Close in Rotherfield, East Sussex

Detective Chief Inspector Alex Geldart, from the Surrey and Sussex Major Crime Team, said both men arrested were in custody on Friday as their investigation continued.

'We are extremely grateful to everyone who has contacted us with information and appreciate the patience from the local community during this time,' he said.

'We believe this to be an isolated incident and there are still a number of ongoing enquiries.

'This will be, understandably, an extremely difficult time for the family and friends and our specialist officers continue to provide support.

'We would ask their privacy is respected during this tragic time and for social media speculation to be avoided.'

Detective Chief Inspector Alex Geldart, Surrey and Sussex Major Crime Team, said that there were 'multiple lines of enquiry' on Thursday.

'We have spoken to a number of people in the local area as part of our investigation already but we are still urging anyone who heard or saw anything unusual or out of place over the last few days to make contact with us,' he said.

Sussex police said on Thursday it would have an enhanced presence in the area 'for the foreseeable future'

Anyone with information which could assist the investigation should report online or call 101 quoting Operation Coppice.