A mysterious green slime which oozed onto a Michigan highway on Friday has been is identified by authorities as a cancerous chemical after it leaked from a nearby closed down factory.

The toxic material, called hexavalent chromium, was pictured spilling onto Interstate 696 in Madison Heights near Detroit, forcing lane closures until at least Monday.

Used to prevent metals from rusting, chromium has been linked to cancers in the lungs, stomach and gut if it is inhaled or digested. It is found in tobacco smoke.

Michigan State Police confirmed Saturday the bright colored liquid was the cancerous chemical, tweeting: 'The chemical ran from the basement of the building, down into the ground and found its way thru a drain which empties onto east bound I-696.'

Hexavalent chromium leaked onto Interstate 696 in Madison Heights Friday. It has been linked to cancers in the lungs, stomach and gut if inhaled or digested

The Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (EGLE) said the hexavalent chromium had likely contaminated groundwater but authorities insist there is no immediate risk to the public.

It came from a nearby electroplating business which closed after its owner was jailed for a year for operating an unlicensed hazardous waste storage facility, pictured

The chemical came from a nearby electroplating business which closed after owner Gary Sayers was jailed for a year after operating an unlicensed hazardous waste storage facility, The Detroit Free Press reports.

Hazardous materials were removed from the plant but soil or groundwater contamination was reportedly not remedied.

But authorities insist there is no immediate risk to the public.

Michigan State Police added: 'The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) indicated that once the chemical came up thru the drain, it froze into a yellow blob. The plan to dispose of the chemical is to bring in a type of excavator, scoop up the frozen waste, and place it into a safe container.

HOW CAN CHROMIUM CAUSE CANCER? Chromium (VI), known chemically as hexavalent chromium, is a heavy metal which has been linked to cancers in the stomach, intestines and lungs. The chemical is used in paint because it prevents corrosion, meaning it can stop metal from rusting. But inhaling or digesting toxic chromium VI can damage cells, DNA and tissues inside the human body because it can't be broken down. Inside the body the chemical can trigger a process called oxidative stress, which is when there is an upset in the balance between antioxidants and potentially dangerous molecules which react with oxygen (free radicals). If free radicals cannot be controlled they can take electric charges from other molecules in the body, disrupting how they work and potentially causing DNA damage which can lead to tumours forming. Sources: US National Library of Medicine and British Medical Journal

'They stated that this may take all weekend and that the right lane of I-696 may be closed until at least Monday. Please use caution as there will be workers in the area. And a yellow blob...'

The Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (EGLE) said the hexavalent chromium had likely contaminated groundwater.

Sewers and the basement at Electro-Plating Services have both been vacuumed.

The EGLE said: 'The bank of the expressway is significantly impacted. Sample results are now expected Tuesday. All agencies involved are meeting tomorrow at MDOT offices in Detroit.'

Macomb County Public Works Commissioner Candice S. Miller said: 'Pollution knows no county or city boundaries. Our first duty is to protect our local water and we stand ready to assist our federal and state partners to contain this material.

'The federal EPA and state EGLE, as well as the Madison Heights Fire Department, are on site and my staff is in close communication with them to ensure that this material is captured before it can migrate to the lake.

The toxic material forced lane closures until at least Monday on Interstate 696

Michigan State Police tweeted Saturday to confirm what the bright colored liquid was

'Our number one priority is protect and preserve the water quality in our magnificent Great Lakes.'

Hexavalent chromium, also known as Chromium (VI), was brought into the spotlight by Erin Brockovich when she fought a power company accused of leaking the chemical into tap water supplies in California.

A heavy metal, it can damage DNA and cells in the human body by reacting with oxygen in the body and disrupting the balance of molecules inside tissue.

Hazardous materials were removed from the now closed Electro-Plating Services, pictured, but soil or groundwater contamination was reportedly not remedied