Ole Gunnar Solskjaer blasted Manchester United for playing with the intensity of a testimonial as their worst ever Premier League season reached another nadir with a 2-0 defeat by bottom side Watford.

At Vicarage Road on Sunday, United were undone by two quick-fire second-half goals that gave Watford their first home win of the season.

David de Gea's howler gifted the home side the lead before Troy Deeney's penalty made sure of the points with a penalty four minutes later.

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer lamented Manchester United's start during their defeat at Watford

Solskjaer insisted there were 'no excuses' for his side's dismal defeat which leaves them eighth heading into Christmas.

'The first half could have easily been my testimonial. Maybe it would have been a better atmosphere in my testimonial to be fair,' Solksjaer said.

'It was very subdued, slow, no tempo, urgency, any bit of encouragement their crowd got was when we gave them set plays and we gifted them two goals as well in the second half.'

He added: 'The first one is a freak goal, a mistake. The second one as well is a bad mistake making that tackle. Two goals in three or four minutes made it hard for us.'

United were unable to find their tempo in the game as a second half double won it for Watford

After a tame first half, De Gea allowed Ismaila Sarr's tame volley to go through his hands, bounce off his face and into the net.

Since the start of last season, the goalkeeper has made six errors leading to goals in the Premier League. No one has made more.

Minutes later United's misery was compounded when Deeney doubled Watford's lead after Aaron Wan-Bissaka fouled Sarr inside the area.

'It's just a ball that slipped through his hands. A routine save that he makes,' added Solskjaer, who insisted he had 'no bother' with his goalkeeper.

'One of the things we're looking for now is when he catches it we're going to go quickly forward. Maybe it's down to thinking about the next action.' United improved after Paul Pogba made his long-awaited return from injury in the final half hour.

Paul Pogba made his long-awaited return from injury in the final half hour for the Red Devils

Solskjaer said his display was 'probably the only plus today', adding: 'We know we've started something with the rebuild but today at this moment I'm very disappointed because we have to come to these stadiums and get more points against teams like this... but there was no intent or urgency to make us deserve to win the game.'

For Watford, meanwhile, this represented a first victory for new boss Nigel Pearson - and ended a club-record run of 12 Premier League home games without a win.

'To be sitting here on December 22, and that's our first home win, it's incredible really,' said Pearson, who conceded his side played better in defeat by Liverpool last week.

'I felt today was going to be really important for us as a football club if we could achieve a win... I have seen lots to encourage myself that we are capable. We have to sustain our positive intent and our ability to go into these types of games and perform.'