They recently moved back to California after 'receiving a substantial payout from Rogers Investments to vacate' an artist's loft at 49 Bleecker Street.

And Emily Ratajkowski and her husband Sebastian Bear-McClard, 32, looked very settled and happy with their living situation on Sunday.

The 28-year-old dressed casually for a coffee run before packing on the PDA during an outing with her man and their dog, Colombo.

Scroll down for video

Everyone's here! Emily Ratajkowski enjoyed a happy day out with her husband Sebastian Bear-McClard on Sunday as they picked up coffee while out on a family walk with their dog, Colombo

Emily rocked a black singlet and a pair of matching colored tights for the outing.

She teamed the look with a pair of white sneakers and threw a caramel colored trench coat over the top.

The DNA model accessorised with some trendy shades along with a necklace and her wedding rings.

Natural beauty: Emily's brunette tresses were styled out naturally into loose waves for the family outing. Her glam saw a dewy complexion with blushed cheeks and a nude pout

Emily's brunette tresses were styled out naturally into loose waves for the family outing.

Her glam saw a dewy complexion with blushed cheeks and a nude pout.

Sebastian rocked a blue shirt and trackpants underneath a patched denim jacket.

The duo, who will be celebrating their second wedding anniversary in February, displayed their love with a kiss while at the park.

Their outing comes after they moved back into Emily's $2 million 1,650 square-foot home in Echo Park in October.

The look of love: The duo, who will be celebrating their second wedding anniversary in February, displayed their love with a kiss while at the park

Struggling artist? Sebastian, worth $12 million, stopped paying his 49 Bleecker Street (pictured) apartment's $4,900/month rent in 2017 while claiming state loft law - a law meant to help starving/struggling artists, according to New York Post

The pair received a 'substantial payout from Rogers Investments to vacate' Sebastian's loft at 49 Bleecker Street in New York City.

The film producer, worth $12 million, stopped paying the apartment's $4,900/month rent in 2017 while claiming state loft law - a law meant to help starving/struggling artists, according to New York Post.

Emily and Sebastian owe their former landlord, Antoni Ghosh, $250,000. He has sued them a quarter of a million in damages in the Manhattan Supreme Court.

Antoni does not own 49 Bleecker Street, but has rented out the entire floor since 1995 for $23,000 a month.

He property mogul sublets five or six of the units - one to Sebastian after he moved in in 2013 for $4,200/month.

The rent eventually was raised to $4,900/month.