Chris Lynn took lessons from cricket's quickfire Ten10 format before reigniting his efforts to smash the national selection door down in the Big Bash League.

Lynn's 35-ball blitz of the Sydney Sixers on Sunday night was arguably the most damaging of his career, as 82 of his 94 runs came in boundaries.

He equalled his record of 11 sixes in an innings, and went within one shot of hitting the equal-fifth fastest T20 century of all-time and the quickest in the Big Bash.

It came after he dominated a T10 tournament in the UAE last month, topping the run-scoring charts at average of 53 and strike-rate of 236.3 against reasonable short-form attacks.

And after scoring just six and nine in the first two games of the Big Bash, Lynn said he took a fearless T10 approach into Sunday's game.

"You do actually have time in T10 cricket," Lynn said.

"Going from T10 to Twenty20, I thought I had a lot more time in T20 and my mindset was actually not as aggressive in the first two games.

"I've been going out there and trying to put the world on your shoulders, that's not going to be the way I play.

"I just wanted to go back to what worked for me in T10, which was whacking the ball."

Lynn's haul made him the first male player to reach 2000 BBL runs, after having given up longer-form cricket this month.

He is easily the most destructive player in the competition, having hit 135 sixes in the tournament. Aaron Finch has the next most with 69.

But Lynn knows Sunday's knock is not enough to mount a case for an Australian recall for next year's home T20 World Cup, after the top-order fired this summer.

Dropped after a poor run of form last summer, he hit out at selectors for a lack of communication over his omission in October.

He's previously said he knows he must now smash the door down with consistent runs, making Sunday night's brutal innings not a one-off but part of a big summer catalogue.

"It's a good message but I'm not even thinking about that stuff to be honest," Lynn said on Sunday night.

"One good innings doesn't make a summer.

"With an innings like that you want them to happen every day but the fact of the matter is it's not going to happen.

"But from a team point of view it's about building that consistency and I know if my performance is consistent then the team performances are going to be."