Firefighters will make the most of favourable Christmas weather conditions across Victoria to strengthen containment lines on fire fronts that have been burning for more than a month.

The fires are expected to continue burning throughout summer.

East Gippsland bushfires burning since November 21 have already burnt through 50,000 hectares.

The Christmas week forecast is for milder weather conditions statewide, before the temperature picks up again over the weekend.

The Country Fire Authority has encouraged locals and tourists planning to visit the East Gippsland area during the holidays to "be aware of the fire conditions and the volatile characteristics of the blazes".

"We suspect these fires will burn for some weeks if not months," CFA chief officer Steve Warrington said.

"We have a few days of respite where we'll be putting in stronger control lines."

"We will try to build this control line so that fire doesn't run out of there and we can fight it within these lines but the reality is that these fires are active and very dangerous."

Two Watch and Act emergency warnings remain in place for Tamboo Crossing and Brookville, with heavy smoke present throughout the Tambo Valley.

Air quality around the area is expected to be very poor-to-hazardous over the next 24 hours after an air quality warning was issued on Monday in Melbourne and other parts of the state.

Continued fire activity throughout the East Gippsland region has resulted in the closure of many walking tracks in the surrounding area.

The Great Alpine road has been closed between Ensay and Bruthen.

"(There is ) an opportunity to clean up a number of smaller fires and that's really important because we know that's going to be a campaign fire over in Gippsland," Premier Daniel Andrews said.

"Many of us will be enjoying Christmas with our family and friends and our emergency services will be out there doing everything they can do to keep us safe."

The Bureau of Meteorology has forecast heatwave conditions to return as Victoria heads into the weekend.

The state sweltered through its hottest December day on record last Friday, with two towns falling just short of 48C.