Country Fire Service crews have worked to contain flare-ups across the Adelaide Hills as the losses from the devastating bushfire mount and deteriorating weather conditions loom.

Small areas still burning within the fire's 127-kilometre perimeter roared back into life on Monday but were dealt with quickly, the CFS still having about 200 firefighters on the ground.

The incidents came as the losses from the blaze continued to rise, with 86 homes now confirmed destroyed, along with almost 500 other buildings.

The CFS said more than 900 properties had been assessed, with another seven suffering major damage and 20 minor damage.

The number of vehicles lost had jumped to 278.

Agricultural losses are also growing with about 1100 hectares of vineyards thought destroyed or damaged, equal to about one-third of the area's grape production, while Cherry farmers were hard hit.

Premier Steven Marshall visited the fire ground on Monday and said there was still much work to be done to fully contain the fire and to help the victims and the wider communities.

As part of those efforts, he announced the appointment of a recovery coordinator.

"Many in our Adelaide Hills community are facing extraordinary tragedy right now but South Australia is rallying behind them," Mr Marshall said.

"Having a designated person to coordinate the recovery and help residents and local businesses get back on their feet will be a real help at this difficult time.

"Residents, schools, small businesses and primary producers will all have different recovery needs and we will work hand in hand to support them all in the best way possible."

The fire also left Adelaide blanketed in smoke, the Environment Protection Authority reporting that air quality levels were hazardous at one stage.

It said pollution levels in the city were two to six times normal levels.

Adelaide's CBD peaked at 200 micrograms of PM 10 particles, (particles up to 10 micrograms across) early on Monday when the normal level is 50 micrograms.

But in suburban Kensington levels rose to 350 micrograms.

A 'watch and act' warning remained in place for the Adelaide Hills fire with the CFS worried about increasing temperatures in the coming days.

By the weekend, the mercury will once again be nudging 40C, raising fire risk fears.

Fires are also still burning on Kangaroo Island where one home has been confirmed lost.

Assessment teams were still checking on other properties.

So far about 40,000 hectares have been burnt across the state, including 25,000 hectares in the Adelaide Hills.

One person, 69-year-old Ron Selth, died in that fire as he tried to defend his property at Charleston.

Three more remain in hospital with burns, including noted horse trainer John Glatz, who is in a critical but stable condition.