The Olympics remains a possibility, but it's majors Adam Scott is hunting in 2020 after ending his trophy drought on the Gold Coast on Sunday.

The former world No.1's second Australian PGA Championship victory ended nearly four years without a trophy for the 2013 Masters champion.

And, after admitting fears of never winning again had crept in, the 39-year-old said the confidence gained would set him up perfectly for that tournament at Augusta National next April.

Scott, who could move as high as No.13 in the world with the Royal Pines win, is also in the box seat for one of two spots to compete at Tokyo's Olympics if he wants to.

But ahead of almost one month off he has made it clear that isn't his priority once he resumes on the US PGA Tour next year.

Scott was a vocal critic of the sport's inclusion for the Rio Games but has softened his stance a little ahead of Japan despite still questioning it's relevance in another packed schedule.

"I'm just going to take my time and see; I mean, I've made it clear it's not my priority, but I wouldn't rule it out," he said after his Royal Pines victory.

"It would be nice to win a major first."

Scott said the win, to go with his 2013 Australian PGA title, would be a significant boost after a season that yielded two runner-up finishes among nine top 10s.

"It's big for the confidence; I've seen what it's done for me in the past," he said in reference to his 2012 Australian Masters title that preceded the US Masters triumph.

"A win, you feel like you're just never going to lose again, so you want to run with that while the confidence is up."

Scott handled the pressure the best down the back nine, getting back on terms with early pacesetter Michael Hendry before a clutch par save on the 12th was followed by a birdie on the 14th and another eagle - his third for the tournament - on the 15th.

"You want to be in contention and you want to find out how you feel and how you respond and I got some of that today," he said.

"So if I happen to be in that position someday at the Masters, I can draw on today and past experience, but this is a little more fresh, you know, than going back to (his last title in) 2016 and trying to remember how I felt."