The ability to find different match winners on any given night has proven to be a success for the Cairns Taipans in this NBL season.

After winning just six matches in Mike Kelly's first year as coach, the Snakes are now 8-9 and in fourth spot with three other sides breathing down their necks.

Predicted by most to finish at the bottom of the table again this season, Kelly has been able to find a way to win through different stars on different nights.

Imports Scott Machado, Cameron Oliver and DJ Newbill have been inspiring on multiple occasions, while recruits Kouat Noi, Mirko Djeric and Majok Deng have also been match-winners.

Locally developed players such as Nate Jawai, Fabian Krslovic, Anthony Fisher and George Blagojevic have also been able to contribute.

Kelly said it was much easier to coach a side that had a number of offensive threats.

"We need everybody," he said on Sunday night after a 94-86 win against the Adelaide 36ers.

"There's Mirko, Fab (Krslovic) just continues to go from strength to strength ... those guys continue to be ready and continue to get better and that's what we need for us to be fighting it out in playoff contention."

Oliver (21 points and 15 rebounds) and Newbill (26 points) did the damage against the Adelaide 36ers on Sunday and Kelly was full of praise for Oliver.

"He was fantastic. I think he's improving," the coach said.

"He's a young basketball player who is very talented and has decided he wants to continue to get better. And he wants to play the right way with this group."

The Taipans can't rest on their laurels for too long.

They travel to play a scheduled open-air clash against Melbourne United on Boxing Day before returning home to play South East Melbourne on New Year's Eve.

Kelly, who was previously an assistant coach with United, said the December 26 clash would be exciting for his group.

"It's a great experience, the atmosphere is fantastic and this group kind of loves big moments and having fun," he said.

"Hopefully we can go down there and play good basketball and make it fun."

The Snakes are hoping rookie of the year contender Noi will be fit for the match after missing the Adelaide game with an ankle injury.