It put his Test future in jeopardy, but James Pattinson won't tone down the aggressive approach that led to his recent suspension when he returns to Australian cricket's biggest stage against New Zealand in Melbourne.

Pattinson's rollercoaster year took a turn for the worse when an on-field slur he used during a Sheffield Shield match last month saw him banned from Australia's series-opener against Pakistan.

However, the fiery 29-year-old's 2019 will end on a high this week with just his second Boxing Day Test at his home ground of the MCG, and his first since 2015.

"I think I'll just play cricket the way I know how to," Pattinson said.

"I suppose if that's pushing the line, it's pushing the line.

"When you go through setbacks like that and get suspended you have to think about that a little bit more.

"But I think I get the best out of my cricket when I'm getting out there and going 100 per cent.

"I'm not going to hold back. Obviously there's a line and sometimes you cross it.

"If you look back on it, you learn from those mistakes and you try to address them."

Despite Pattinson being one of the country's leading quicks of the decade, this week's Test will only be his 20th for Australia, due largely to a multitude of injuries.

The right-armer only returned to Sheffield Shield cricket for Victoria last November after a 15-month battle with stress fractures in his back.

He forced his way into the Ashes squad for his first Test in three years, and took five wickets at 33.40.

However, he then faced a tough battle to get into the Test side for the home summer, with Mitchell Starc in form.

The suspension was another hurdle, and Pattinson conceded there have been times when he thought his Test career might have been over.

But he will get his chance on Boxing Day, after coach Justin Langer confirmed over the weekend he would be the man to come in for the injured Josh Hazlewood.

"I've been hungry my whole career and it's no different now," Pattinson said.

"Even with a lot of setbacks, the hunger's always been there.

"If I get rewarded with a game, hopefully I can put in a good performance.

"It's always special on Boxing Day and being a Victorian makes it even more special."

The Trans-Tasman Trophy has so far shaped as a battle of the quicks and teammate David Warner backed Pattinson to bring the firepower required to continue Australia's pace assault alongside Starc and Pat Cummins.

"He is a fierce competitor," Warner said.

"He's got a lot of up and go about him, that's what we love. He's been like that since day one, even when he made his debut.

"I know he does (bring the fear factor) to us in the nets.

"He's well spoken high of, especially the guys who have played against him in County cricket. He puts the ball in the right areas and on the right length."