The dust had yet to settle on Watford's second goal when Ole Gunnar Solskjaer collared Paul Pogba for a chat.

Troy Deeney had just put the Premier League's bottom club on course for a first home win of the season and United's dismal season appeared to be hurtling towards yet another low.

Two-nil down, and with little over half an hour to play, Solskjaer needed a miracle maker.

Paul Pogba made his long awaited Manchester United return in their 2-0 defeat at Watford

Pogba was introduced as a 64th minute substitute but his influence couldn't rescue United

Pogba showed glimpses of his brilliance and provided the creativity United are badly lacking

So, naturally, he turned to 18-year-old Mason Greenwood and his £89million midfielder was made to wait. It is often said that a player's stock only rises when they are out injured – you don't know what you have until it's gone, after all.

With Pogba, however, the opposite seems to have happened during his three-month injury lay-off.

Here, when he was eventually brought off the bench, there was no hero's welcome from the away end.

Scott McTominay has become a fans' favourite but his industry just isn't enough in midfield

Fred's form has improved in recent weeks but he lacks the craft to unlock opposition defences

Jesse Lingard has regained his first team spot but his finishing let him down at Vicarage Road

Instead at Vicarage Road they toasted a new midfield general.

Midway up the away end hung a flag. Across the top it read 'Scott McTominay' and either side of the midfielder's screaming face were the letters: 'MU FC'.

Deliberate, or not, it was a powerful image.

The 23-year-old is now at the centre of everything Manchester United, one of the few bright lights in these darker times.

By contrast, there was no tribute to Pogba, nothing, really, to indicate that they had missed him much at all. And not without good reason.

Pogba had missed 12 of United's previous 13 league games, in which time they had taken 20 points from a possible 39.

United have done well against bigger clubs but need Pogba's genius to break down teams

Andreas Pereira was another midfield option on the bench but hasn't performed consistently

Nemanja Matic is another United midfielder whose long term future looks uncertain right now

In the 13 games Pogba played before then, they amassed just 13.

Without him, McTominay has impressed alongside Fred at the base of midfield, while Jesse Lingard has returned to form as Solskjaer's side went six games unbeaten – a run that included wins over Manchester City and Tottenham.

Suddenly, it seemed, Pogba had a fight on his hands.

'At the moment, Pogba will do well to get into the midfield,' Alan Smith told Sky before kick-off.

Here, though, in a 26-minute cameo, the Frenchman reminded everyone how much United still need him – but also how much more they need from him, too.

For if this performance was another reminder of United's shortcomings, Pogba's display was another example of why some fans are sceptical he is necessarily the solution.

Pogba was given a lukewarm reception by United fans when he came on and also at full-time

Pogba was deployed on the left of a rejigged midfield three when he was brought on

After a lifeless first hour from the visitors, in which Fred and McTominay were industrious but ineffective, Pogba brought some invention and drive to their midfield.

He showed glimpses of quality and almost scored late on as United banged on the door but found no way through.

For a player so short of match fitness, perhaps it was too much to ask him to turn the game.

But that is exactly what Solskjaer needs moving forward. If United are to reach the promised land that their manager insists they are heading towards, Pogba needs to start running games.

He needs to be their midfield fulcrum. It should be his name on supporters' lips. And his face on their flags.