Advertisement

Natalie Imbruglia stepped out with her baby son Max Valentine on Sunday, seen with the tot for the first time.

The singer, 44, gave birth to Max two months ago, having undergone IVF treatment with a sperm donor.

Natalie was spotted stepping out for a coffee run with the adorable little boy while enjoying a visit to Australia, from which she originally hails.

Festive day out: Natalie Imbruglia stepped out with her baby son Max Valentine on Sunday, seen with the tot for the first time

The Smoke songstress is back on the Gold Coast for the festive season, and was seen with her mother Maxene Anderson.

After stopping for coffee, the ladies strolled along in the afternoon sunshine, with Max safely placed in his stroller and Maxene holding onto her pet dog on its leash.

Natalie looked chic in a baggy pleated sundress, in clay pink and cream.

She wore aviator shades and her chocolate mane loosely around her naturally-stunning features.

Doting: The singer, 44, gave birth to Max two months ago, having undergone IVF treatment with a sperm donor

Cuteness: Natalie was spotted stepping out for a coffee run with the adorable little boy while enjoying a visit to Australia, from which she originally hails

Afternoon walk: The Smoke songstress is back in Oz for the festive season, and was seen with her mother Maxene Anderson

She doted on Max as she held onto him in his orange and white striped onesie.

Maxene wore a cornflower blue dress and sandals as she stepped out with her pop star daughter and new grandson.

New mum Natalie seemed besotted with her son - whom, on announcing his birth on Instagram in October, she branded 'my boy'.

The former soap star announced she was pregnant with her first child in July, after undergoing in vitro fertilisation (IVF) with the help of a sperm donor.

Effortless style: Natalie looked chic in a baggy pleated sundress, in clay pink and cream

Comfy: Maxene wore a cornflower blue dress and sandals as she stepped out with her pop star daughter and new grandson

Relaxed: She wore aviator shades and her chocolate mane loosely around her naturally-stunning features

Besotted: She doted on Max as she held onto him, in his orange and white striped onesie

Heading out: After stopping for coffee, the ladies strolled along in the afternoon sunshine, with Max safely placed in his stroller

In her element: The pair appeared deep in conversation as Natalie pushed her stroller along the pavement

All in the details: The Johnny English actress complemented her ensemble with a selection of dainty multi-coloured bracelets

New mum: Natalie seemed besotted with her son - whom, on announcing his birth on Instagram in October, she branded 'my boy'

Multi-tasking: The brunette held onto Max in one hand, while pushing the baby carriage with her left hand

Careful: The Torn hitmaker looked out for oncoming cars before crossing the road

Out and about: The former soap star announced she was pregnant with her first child in July, after undergoing in vitro fertilisation (IVF) with the help of a sperm donor

'I’m expecting my first child this Autumn. For those of you who know me, this has been something I have wanted for a very long time,' she told her Instagram followers at the time of her announcement.

'I'm blessed that this is possible with the help of IVF and a sperm donor. I won't be saying anything more on that publicly.

'I'm so excited about this next adventure... a new album and I'm going to be a mum!'

Natalie underwent In-vitro fertilisation in order to fall pregnant - a medical procedure in which a woman has an already-fertilised egg inserted into her womb to become pregnant.

It's a boy! Natalie revealed she welcomed her first child back in October by uploading a sweet snap holding her son's hand

Baby joy! The former L'Oréal model pictured in July at six months pregnant

HOW DOES IVF WORK? In-vitro fertilisation, known as IVF, is a medical procedure in which a woman has an already-fertilised egg inserted into her womb to become pregnant. It is used when couples are unable to conceive naturally, and a sperm and egg are removed from their bodies and combined in a laboratory before the embryo is inserted into the woman. Once the embryo is in the womb, the pregnancy should continue as normal. The procedure can be done using eggs and sperm from a couple or those from donors. Guidelines from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) recommends that IVF should be offered on the NHS to women under 43 who have been trying to conceive through regular unprotected sex for two years. People can also pay for IVF privately, which costs an average of £3,348 for a single cycle, according to figures published in January 2018, and there is no guarantee of success. The NHS says success rates for women under 35 are about 29 per cent, with the chance of a successful cycle reducing as they age. Around eight million babies are thought to have been born due to IVF since the first ever case, British woman Louise Brown, was born in 1978. Chances of success The success rate of IVF depends on the age of the woman undergoing treatment, as well as the cause of the infertility (if it's known). Younger women are more likely to have a successful pregnancy. IVF isn't usually recommended for women over the age of 42 because the chances of a successful pregnancy are thought to be too low. Between 2014 and 2016 the percentage of IVF treatments that resulted in a live birth was: 29 per cent for women under 35 23 per cent for women aged 35 to 37 15 per cent for women aged 38 to 39 9 per cent for women aged 40 to 42 3 per cent for women aged 43 to 44 2 per cent for women aged over 44

The procedure can be done using eggs and sperm from a couple or, as Natalie revealed she chose, using donors.

The dual Australian/British citizen endured a very high-profile four-year marriage to Daniel Johns, which ended in 2008 with Natalie revealing earlier this year that the pair no longer speak.

Natalie met the Silverchair frontman at an awards show in 1999 and they married four years later, on New Year's Eve, in a beachside ceremony in Queensland. Guests at the lavish affair included close pals Kylie Minogue, actor Guy Pearce and Virgin boss Richard Branson.

The couple were often spotted in public locked in amorous displays of affection and, as several onlookers regularly remarked, 'they were always giggling like teenagers.'

Former flames: The Grammy-nominated artist was married to former Silverchair frontman Daniel Johns (right) for five years before they split in 2008

As time passed, they became the subject of increasing break-up rumours, partly due to the length of time they spent apart.

She announced she was in a relationship with Matt Field in 2017, but the pair have not been pictured together since last year.

In 2015, Natalie told The Evening Standard that she 'would really love to be a mum.' She added: 'It is something that is going to happen,' she added. 'I am still hopeful that I will meet someone. And yes, I may well look into other options if I don't.'

The first-time mother previously said she never expected to be divorced and without children in her forties. She explained: 'I am a bit behind the curve as far as family is concerned, but that doesn't bother me right now.'

She appeared as Beth Brennan, later Willis in Neighbours, in the 90s and also appeared as a judge on X Factor in 2010.

Bridal: She appeared as Beth Brennan, later Willis in Neighbours, in the 90s (pictured with Scott Michaelson in 1995), and also appeared as a judge on X Factor in 2010