Prince William and Kate Middleton are set to make a 'big announcement' over the Christmas period, according to a royal expert.

Royal commentator Omid Scobie has claimed that the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, both 37, will be 'breaking away from tradition' in the coming weeks to reveal 'a number of new announcements.'

He also told that 2020 will be a 'big year' for Kate and says the royal couple are set to be 'busy' over the coming year.

Speaking on ABC's Heirpod podcast, Scobie said: 'Expect royal announcements over the holidays, which I think is a slight break away from tradition.'

Royal expert Omid Scobie claims Prince William and Kate Middleton are set to make a 'big announcement' over the Christmas period. Pictured, departing Pakistan on 18 October 2019

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, both 37, will be 'breaking away from tradition' in the coming weeks. Pictured with children Prince Louis, Prince George and Princess Charlotte on the balcony of Buckingham Place watching the flypast after the Trooping the Colour ceremony on 8 June 2019

'There was a briefing at Kensington Palace just this week where they gave us a number of new announcements that will be coming out over the holiday period.'

He went on to explain that this usually quiet time of year for the royals is perfect for their big announcement.

He added: 'It's a smart decision, it's a quiet time of the year. It is a great time to announce things.'

'We will be hearing about a new initiative from Prince William and some other news as well.'

'Next year is a big one for Kate. She is going to be really focused on her early years development. That is something she has been involved in for a long time now.'

The commentator told that 2020 will be a 'big year' for Kate and said the royal couple are set to be 'busy' over the coming year

'It has all been bitty for anyone who follows this. Apparently 2020 is a year when it is all tied together. So, yes, a busy year for them.'

This comes after news that Prince William and Kate Middleton will take the opportunity to 'project their children forward' and 'steal the show' in Prince Harry and Meghan's absence on the walk to church at Sandringham.

Camilla Tominey appeared on This Morning where she predicted Prince George, 6, and Princess Charlotte, 4, will appear with their parents on Christmas Day.

'The Sussexes aren't going to be there, so this may be an opportunity for the Cambridges to project their children forward,' she said.

The royal expert also revealed there was still 'more exciting festive imagery' of the royal family to come at the weekend, after the Cambridge's Christmas card leaked online earlier this week.

Camilla told This Morning hosts Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford that it wouldn't surprise her if Prince George and Princess Charlotte appeared with other members of the royal family on the walk to church.

She added: 'Maybe not Prince Louis because he is a toddler and we all know how toddlers can be in church.'

What is certain, is that the Sussexes will not be joining the royal family on Christmas day.

Prince Harry and Meghan are having a six-week break from royal duties to spend time with baby Archie in an undisclosed location, and will celebrate Christmas with Doria Ragland.

Royal expert Camilla Tominey suggested Prince William and Kate Middleton would take the 'opportunity to project Prince George, 6, and Princess Charlotte, 4, 'forward' into the spotlight on Christmas Day. Pictured in Berkshire on Christmas Day in 2016