She recently touched down on the shores of Barbados for her annual winter break with her partner Simon Cowell and sons Adam, 13, and Eric, five.

And Lauren Silverman, 42, put on an eye-catching display on Saturday, when she hit the Eastern Caribbean island's golden shores for another day of basking in the sun.

The glamorous mother-of-two looked sensational as she stepped out in a leopard-print swimsuit, which she teamed with a matching kaftan.

Sun: Lauren Silverman was spotted was spotted soaking up the sun in Barbados on Saturday

Shielding her eyes with a pair of oversized angular sunglasses, the American beauty added an extra touch of pizzazz to her look with sparkling diamond earrings and a delicate gold necklace, while she wore her raven tresses in a sleek ponytail.

Carrying a large sunhat, glamorous Lauren was seen enjoying a friendly chat with fellow holidaymakers at her luxury resort while making her way to the beach.

She enjoyed the day relaxing on a sun lounger alongside her sons Adam, from her marriage to Andrew Silverman, and Eric.

Sensational: The glamorous mother-of-two looked sensational as she stepped out in a leopard-print swimsuit, which she teamed with a matching kaftan

Friendly chat: Carrying a large sunhat and bottle of water, glamorous Lauren was seen enjoying a friendly chat with fellow holidaymakers at her luxury resort

Her partner Simon regularly whisks his family off to Barbados every year over the Christmas period, with their trips often stretching several days into January.

And the British-born music mogul has been hitting the beach sporting a new look, after shedding more than 20Ibs in weight thanks to a fastidious vegan diet, which he changed in order to keep up with young son Eric.

He told Ellen DeGeneres during a visit to her eponymous chat show: 'I went to see this doctor in London. We did some tests. And then a month later he said, "You have the worst diet I've ever met from any patient."

Mom: She joined her sons Adam, 13, and Eric, five as they relaxed on sun loungers by the beach

Chic: Shielding her eyes with a pair of stylish sunglasses, the American beauty added an extra touch of pizzazz to her look with sparkling diamond earrings and a delicate gold necklace

Simon added: 'It's like the Eric diet because he actually, apart from ice cream, he actually likes water. I mean, who likes water? And his raw vegetables. So I'm on like, the Eric Cowell diet.'

His new physique has impressed his celebrity pals, with his close friend and fellow Britain's Got Talent judge David Walliams joking the star has become a 'skinny b***h'.

Taking to Twitter to share his thoughts on Simon's transformation, David tweeted a picture of his pal shirtless on the beach and said: 'Skinny b***h,' before following his post up with another of Simon that read: 'Vegan diet my a**e.'

Tress-ed to impress: Letting her natural beauty shine through by going makeup-free, Lauren wore her lustrous raven tresses in a sleek ponytail

Annual break: She recently touched down on the shores of Barbados for her annual winter break with her partner Simon Cowell and sons Adam, 13, and Eric, five

Eric is Simon's only child and he has credited his son for changing his life for the better, ever since he was born back in 2014.

Speaking on ITV's Lorraine in September, Simon explained the impact Eric has had on him and said: 'I see my life through his eyes now and it’s much more simple and it’s much more fun.

'When you become a dad, something clicks in you. it’s all about them... You become very protective and importantly, part of the reason I changed everything in my life.'

Regulars: Her partner Simon regularly whisks his family off to Barbados every year over the Christmas period, with their trips often stretching several days into January

Golden girl: She looked glamorous for her day at the beach with bracelets and a gold watch