Advertisement

A pileup involving more than 60 cars on a major interstate in Virginia on Sunday morning injured dozens of people, some critically, according to state police.

The accident happened just before 8 am Sunday on Interstate 64 in York County and for a time shut down traffic in both directions, Virginia State Police Sgt. Michelle Anaya said in a statement.

The agency tweeted that there was fog and ice along a bridge when what was described as a chain-reaction wreck began.

Drivers and emergency personnel remain on the scene of a multi-vehicle pileup on Interstate 64 in York County

Drivers remain on the scene of a multi-vehicle pileup. Authorities said there was fog and ice along a bridge where the accident began

Emergency services work at the scene, clambering over the dozens of cars to find injured people

Sixty-nine vehicles were involved, and 51 people were treated or transported for injuries, Anaya said late Sunday morning. There were no immediate reports of fatalities.

Eastbound lanes eventually reopened, but westbound lanes remained closed hours after the crash, according to the Virginia Department of Transportation.

An investigation was ongoing, and motorists were being asked to avoid the area.

Photos from the scene showed a tangled mass of metal, with car hoods crumpled, windows smashed and a red truck plopped on top of another vehicle.

A person climbs over crashed cars at the scene on Sunday morning with thick fog visible in the background

Drivers and emergency personnel work to free injured drivers and passengers. At least 35 people were taken to hospital

Despite the horrific scene, there were no immediate reports of fatalities.

Crews work to clear vehicles from the Queens Creek overpass on I-64 in York County after the multi-vehicle crash

Ivan Levy said he and his wife were both headed to Williamsburg, where they work, in separate vehicles around the time of the crash.

Levy told The Associated Press he started slowing his truck down and turned his hazard lights on when he saw thick fog.

'Next thing I know I see cars just start piling up on top of each other,' he said.

Levy was able to stop in time but then got a call from his wife saying she had been in the wreck.

'It was just so scary,' said Alena Levy, who was evaluated at a hospital but was not seriously injured.

Cops said an investigation is ongoing, and motorists were being asked to avoid the area.

Cars were left piled on top of one another following the pileup, which was likely caused by fog and ice

Among those hurt, two were listed in critical condition and 11 were serious but not life-threatening, said York County Fire Chief Stephen Kopczynski

Ivan Levy said he ran past cars to find his wife and help her out. They made their way back to his truck, and Ivan Levy said he then grabbed a medical kit and started checking on other victims because first responders hadn't arrived yet.

Sixty-nine vehicles were involved in the crash, and 51 people were treated or transported to hospitals, Anaya said Sunday afternoon, noting that those figures were constantly changing.

Among those hurt, two were listed in critical condition and 11 were serious but not life-threatening, said York County Fire Chief Stephen Kopczynski.

An investigation into the cause of the crash was ongoing.

In a separate incident, eight cars were involved in a crash on I-64 in the opposite direction after the larger pileup, Anaya said. It wasn't immediately clear if others were injured in that crash.

Ivan Levy said the car his wife had been driving was a Christmas gift.

'She was all upset about the vehicle, and I was like, "Look, honey, it's just metal",' he said.