She's adjusting to life as a first time mother with the support of her partner Casey Johnson.

And Marnie Simpson was treating herself to a rare night out with her boyfriend on Sunday, taking the evening off parenting duties and spending some quality time together at Judges restaurant in Potters Bar, Hertfordshire.

The 27-year-old star shunned her former party girl image in favour of cosy sweats and a warm red jacket, prioritising comfort for her date night while her mum and stepdad stayed at their family home with baby son Rox.

Night off: Marnie Simpson was treating herself to a rare night out with her boyfriend on Sunday, spending some quality time together at Judges restaurant in Potters Bar, Hertfordshire

The new mum wore her brunette locks pulled back in a bun and accessorised with small hoop earrings and a Louis Vuitton bag.

Marnie flashed a coy smile as she left the restaurant hand in hand with Casey, who was equally dressed down in a grey jumper and black jeans.

The cute couple, whose journey to parenthood has been documented on MTV's Geordie Shore OGs, shared a kiss as they headed off home.

The reality TV personality also shared some cute videos of her baby boy Rox, cuddling the infant on her lap.

Sealed with a kiss: The duo shared a smooch as they headed off home following a well-deserved night off from parenting duties

Marnie previously revealed she lost two pints of blood and had to undergo two blood transfusions during the traumatic birth on October 29.

The star shared an emotional Instagram post, accompanied by a photo with her son, where she revealed it had taken her a 'really long time' to recover from the birth.

Marnie also detailed her chronic bladder condition in the post, as well as thanking fans for the love and support her family have received.

She began: 'Excuse the state of me, I’m really not glamorous at the moment! But just wanted to say a massive thank you to everyone who has showed support for me, Casey & baby Rox.'

Casual: The 27-year-old star shunned her former party girl image in favour of cosy sweats and a warm red jacket, prioritising comfort for her date night

Sweet: The reality TV personality also shared some cute videos of her baby boy Rox, cuddling the infant on her lap

'We are overwhelmed with the love you have all shown, everyone is aware I haven’t been active on Instagram lately, mostly because it’s taken me a really long time to recover from the birth.'

'It was a extremely hard birth and labor, I lost 2 pints of blood and had 2 blood transfusions so it’s taken me a little longer to feel normal again'.

'Rox is such a beautiful, healthy baby and that’s the main thing! I still can’t believe how I’ve managed To make such a perfect little boy, he amazes me!'.