Her career has gone from strength to strength over the last few years.

And Keeley Hawes was spotted in character as Roald Dahl's first wife Patricia Neal for the first time, as filming for An Unquiet Life began.

The Bodyguard star, 43, donned an elegant grey dress underneath a more exuberant beige leopard-fur lined coat for her role as the Hollywood icon.

Elegant: Keeley Hawes was spotted in character as Roald Dahl's first wife Patricia Neal for the first time, as filming for An Unquiet Life began

She wore a navy felt hat on top of her glamorously curled brunette locks and held a black bag over her forearm.

A band of pearls adorned her neck and the film's costume designer added height to the look with a pair of black heels.

An Unquiet Life is set to make the big screen at some point next year and will tell the story of the tumultuous marriage between the actress and famous children's writer.

Beautiful: The Bodyguard star, 43, donned an elegant grey dress underneath a more exuberant beige leopard-fur lined coat for her role as the Hollywood icon

Midst of filming: She wore a navy felt hat on top of her glamorously curled brunette locks and held a black bag over her forearm

Prep: Keeley strolled around the grounds of the country house set as a team of stylists made sure she looked perfect

The couple were married at Trinity Church in New York City in 1953, but divorced 30 years later in 1983.

They shared five children; Tessa, 62, Lucy, 54, Theo Matthew, 59, Ophelia, 55, and Olivia.

But they suffered tragedy in 1960 when baby Theo was brain damaged after his pram was hit by a taxi, and again in 1962 when Olivia died from measles aged seven.

Star: A band of pearls adorned her neck and the costume designer added height to the look with a pair of black heels

Playfight: At one point Keeley found herself in the middle of a jovial argument as she waited to film her scenes

Tumultuous: An Unquiet Life is set to make the big screen at some point next year and will tell the story of the tumultuous marriage between the actress and famous children's writer

Difficult lives: In 1965 Patricia suffered three burst cerebral aneurysms while pregnant with their fifth child, Lucy

Downton Abbey's Hugh Bonneville, 56, will play serial cheat Roald in the movie that will focus on the couple's move from the US to the British countryside.

More hardship came in 1965 when Patricia suffered three burst cerebral aneurysms while pregnant with their fifth child, Lucy.

Roald looked after her as she re-learnt how to walk and talk, and she eventually managed to return to acting.

Family: They suffered tragedy in 1960 when baby Theo was brain damaged after his pram was hit by a taxi, and again in 1962 when Olivia (pictured) died from measles aged seven

Hollywood: Patricia, who died in 2010, starred in The Day the Earth Stood Still and Breakfast at Tiffany's before she won an Oscar for 1963's Hud. Keeley will play Patricia in 1962 as the pair find their relationship put to the test

Love: After her aneurysms Roald looked after Patricia as she re-learnt how to walk and talk, but she eventually managed to return to acting

They divorced in 1983 and Roald went on to marry Felicity d'Abreu Crosland the same year.

Patricia, who died in 2010, starred in The Day the Earth Stood Still and Breakfast at Tiffany's before she won an Oscar for 1963's Hud.

Keeley will play Patricia in 1962 as the pair find their relationship put to the test.

Mission: Impossible - Fallout actress Rebecca Ferguson was originally cast for the part, but had to turn it down after it clashed with other commitments.

And the story is based on the book An Unquiet Life by Stephen Michael Shearer.

Busy: Keeley was kept busy as a team of crew members working on the film surrounded her to make sure she looked right

Serial cheat: Downton Abbey's Hugh Bonneville, 56, will play serial cheat Roald in the movie that will focus on the couple's move from the US to the British countryside (pictured in September)

Ready and waiting: Wardrobe appeared to decide the look was right as they took a break to enjoy a chat

Youngsters: The story is based on the book An Unquiet Life by Stephen Michael Shearer (pictured at their home in Great Missenden)

Serious: Keeley's hair stylist was in a sombre mood as she perfectly the actress' brunette locks while on set

Original casting: Mission: Impossible - Fallout actress Rebecca Ferguson was originally cast for the part, but had to turn it down after it clashed with other commitments

Perfecting: Keeley's pearl necklace had to be adjusted at one point as a member of the costume department perfected her ensemble

In character: A dash of red lipstick completed Keeley's look as the hair and makeup team transformed her into the Hollywood star

Come along: Keeley appeared to beckon for the wardrobe member to follow her as she enjoyed a joke on set

'The story of Patricia Neal and Roald Dahl is extraordinary, and I’m so excited to be part of it and so looking forward to working with the brilliant Hugh Bonneville and the hugely talented John Hay, who has provided us with such a beautiful script,' Hawes told Variety.

'Roald Dahl and Patricia Neal seemingly had it all until an unimaginable event threatened to tear their family apart,' added the director John Hay, who co-wrote the script with David Logan.

'I am so pleased we have attracted two award-winning talents in Hugh and Keeley to play these iconic roles.'

Crew: A number of tents and boxes of equipment could be seen on set as the crew members prepared to film scenes for the upcoming film

Drama: 'Roald Dahl and Patricia Neal seemingly had it all until an unimaginable event threatened to tear their family apart,' added the director John Hay, who co-wrote the script with David Logan

Coiffed: Keeley's brunette locks were perfectly coiffed into ringlets to ensure she shared the same hairstyle as Patricia