University academic Jessica Jing Ren, 36, has died 11 days after the bus crash in Swansea

A mother has died 11 days after a double-decker bus smashed into a railway bridge and sliced off the roof as she sat in a front seat on the top deck.

University academic Jessica Jing Ren, 36, was airlifted to hospital when the roof was sliced off the bus in the crash in Swansea on December 12.

Seven other passengers were injured on the X10 service when it hit the low-lying bridge. The top deck was crumpled - with a section of the roof being thrown onto the rail line above the bridge.

Miss Ren's heartbroken family have now paid tribute to the 'loved and talented academic' following her death.

They said: 'Jessica was the loving wife of Wenquang Wang, a devoted mother to five year old Yushu Wang and the cherished Daughter of Mingqi Ren.

'Jessica had been a visiting academic who had joined the Accounting and Finance department in the School of Management in Swansea University in July this year, from Huanghuai University in China.

The roof was sliced off the bus in the crash in Swansea, South Wales, on December 12.

Pictures taken on-board show the black and yellow markings of the bridge coming through the bus's top deck. It sheared off the roof of the bus over the first half a dozen rows of seats

'A much loved and talented academic, Jessica will be deeply missed by her family and her friends both in China and in Swansea and will leave a great void in their lives.'

American Olympic gold medallist Kevin Young, 53, was also injured in the crash, suffering a head wound and two broken ribs.

Mr Young, who remains the 400m hurdles world record holder after his victory in the 1992 Games in Barcelona, is studying for a Master's degree in sports ethics and integrity at Swansea University.

Tom Evans, who works near to the scene of the crash, said it looked like 'a tin opener had taken the top of the bus off'.

One person near the scene said it looked like 'a tin opener had taken the top of the bus off'

Police said a 63-year-old man arrested in connection with the incident had been released

He believed the bus driver had misjudged the height of a railway bridge - and driven straight under it.

He added: 'I heard it and went out soon after. Police were there quickly, cordoning it off. It's now a no-go area.'

South Wales Police said a 63-year-old man arrested in connection with the incident had been released under investigation.

A spokesman said: 'We continue to appeal for witnesses to the collision which happened at about 9.40am or for anyone who was in the area and has dash cam footage.

The top deck was crumpled - with a section of the roof being thrown onto the rail line above the bridge

Red warning signs on the bridge give its height as 11ft (3.3m) - while a normal double-decker bus is 16ft 3in (4.95m) (file picture)

'If you have any information, please contact 101 quoting occurrence 1900456484.'

The First Cymru bus had been diverted from its normal five-mile route between two university campuses by roadworks.

At the time of the crash, Andrew Sherrington, Managing Director at First Cymru said: 'Everyone at First Cymru is shocked by this incident and our heartfelt sympathies go out to those injured.

'The service was off its normal route due to a temporary road closure.'