She has reportedly split from her boyfriend of one year Stephen Martorana, just three weeks after moving in together.

And Bianca Gascoigne showed her former boyfriend what he's missing as she posed up a storm in a festive lingerie shoot ahead of Christmas.

The glamour model, 33, displayed her sensational figure in a red harness bra, teamed with a matching barely-there thong.

Bianca Gascoigne showed her former boyfriend Stephen Martorana what he's missing as she posed up a storm in a festive lingerie shoot ahead of Christmas

Oozing sex appeal, the CBB star highlighted her toned physique in the scanty set, and ensured focus remained on her minimal outfit by opting for minimal accessories.

Injecting a hint of winter chic, the media personality rounded off her appearance in a Santa Claus hat.

The social media sensation dressed her tresses into glossy waves, while her radiant complexion was enhanced with a heavy coating of glamorous make-up.

Ooh-la-la: The glamour model, 33, displayed her sensational figure in a red harness bra, teamed with a matching barely-there thong

In the romance department, the Love Island star was dating Stephen for a year before the rumoured split, which was said to be the result of constant arguments.

Insiders told The Sun: 'They split up one day after there one year anniversary. They tried to make it work over and over again but they just wasn’t compatible.'

Bianca's break-up from Stephen comes after she broke up with cage fighter ex CJ Meeks at the end of 2017 - with the recent events causing fresh heartache.

Newly-single: The media personality has reportedly split from her boyfriend of one year Stephen, just three weeks after moving in together (pictured in November)

The source continued: 'They literally just moved in with each other 3 weeks before they spilt. They were forever arguing.

'Bianca is sad about it as they have known each other for 10 years and she feels like she has lost a friend but deep down she knew it wasn’t right.'

Her split comes after she discussed how mental disorder body dysmorphia contributed to having a bum lift back in November.

Lost love: The Love Island star was dating Stephen for a year before the rumoured split, which was said to be the result of constant arguments

Appearing on Lisa Snowdon's Fabulous Magazine podcast, Things I Told My Daughter, the social media sensation said: 'It’s something I thought about for years and years and, like I said, I have this body dysmorphia.

'I have tried to get my bum how I wanted but I never really got there so I saw this as an option, but it really was a scary thing.'

Body dysmorphia, according to the NHS, is where a person spends a lot of time worrying about flaws in their appearance. These flaws are often unnoticeable to others.

'It was a really scary thing': Bianca's outing comes after she discussed how mental disorder body dysmorphia contributed to having a bum lift back in November (pictured November)

Bianca flew to Marbella for the surgery, which is a specialized fat transfer procedure that augments the size and shape of the person's derriere without implants.

But Bianca's mum Sheryl was worried after researching the numerous health risks that arise with the surgery.

Sheryl told Lisa: 'I was exceptionally worried because it was literally a week after sadly someone passed away from the operation, I get annoyed that she doesn’t see how beautiful she is, she’s stunning and she doesn’t see that.'

After the surgery Bianca revealed she was unable to sit down for four weeks and even getting dressed now is hard for her.