Give joy to every member of the family this Christmas by making sure there's something under the tree for pets to unwrap.

Your furry friends give you unconditional love and hours of entertainment throughout the year so the least you can do is show how much they mean to you with a little treat that will improve the quality of their life.

From cosy beds and blankets for post-dog walking relaxation to a feeding bowl that even the fussiest cat will lap up, here are eight great gifts to express your gratitude to your four-legged friends.

Furbo Dog Camera With Two Way Audio, £129

Make life more fun for your dog when you're not there with this camera that allows you to remotely see, talk and toss treats to your dogs.

A super clear HD camera with a 160° wide-angle view and night vision allows you to clearly view what they're getting up to, while the two-way audio allows them to hear your voice to calm them down.

If it detects loud barking, it will send a notification to your phone so you can check in on them. The treat tosser enables you both to play a virtual game of catch.

Buy now on Amazon

Cat Scratching Post With Bed, £29.99

Give your cats a touch of luxurious comfort with this cat scratching post that comes complete with a soft plush lined bed.

With white and soft neutral colours, this will fit perfectly into any home and save your sofas as your feline friends can scratch their nails on a choice of three posts. When tired, they can jump into the bed for a snooze.

At 55.5cm high and 34.5cm wide, it's compact enough to fit into most spaces and is portable.

Buy now on Argos

Barbour Tartan Quilted Dog Bed, £80

Upgrade your dog's resting quarters with a luxuriously padded Barbour quilted dog bed. Not only will this add a touch of country chic to your home with the signature Barbour quilted nylon outer layer and classic tartan cotton lining, but dogs will love the high sides of this bed that make them feel cosy and secure.

The cushion pad moulds to their shape giving them a super comfortable place to lay their head. It's easy to keep clean as the cushion is removable and washable, and the outer bed can be wiped down.

Buy now on John Lewis

Terri Pet Teepee, £30

Cosy and playful, this cute Nordic-style teepee is the perfect choice for cats and medium-sized dogs.

Outside is crafted from felt and pine for a simple, chic silhouette. Inside is a reversible fluffy sherpa cushion that your animal will love to snuggle on. If they moult on it or get it dirty, it's easy to remove to clean and is machine washable.

the teepee would look lovely in the corner of a room for a stylish den for your cuddliest chums, and is excellent value for money at £30.

Buy now on Made.com

Frolicat Bolt Cat Toy, £20

The Frolicat Bolt is an interactive laser toy that provides hours of fun for your feline friends. It makes playing with cats a lot easier as you no longer have to dangle a toy in their faces, this gadget will do the work for you.

Hold the Bolt in your hand or place it on a flat surface and watch your cat pounce, chase and bat at the exciting laser patterns.

Unbeatably fun, this is a great wear to wear out your cat so they're more likely to sit on your lap when you want them to.

Buy now on Pets at Home

Not In The Dog House Christmas Lunch Set, £22.99

The way to a dog's heart is through their stomach and this doggy selection pack will make their Christmas extra great.

It contains a Pooch & Mutt Pouch of junk-free food for lunch, washed down with a bottle of Woof & Brew's Pawsecco.

After they've eaten, dress them for the occasion with the snazzy House of Paws Tweed Bow Tie and help them to hang up a beautiful Dog Christmas Tree Decoration from Billy & Margot, which is filled with healthy venison treats. There's also a green tweed toy from House of Paws and Christmas Dinner Mini-Bone Dog Treats.

Buy now on Amazon

Catswall Design Multi Cat Feeder Bowl, £40

Cats can be fussy but this feeding bowl makes it harder for them to turn down their grub by raising it up to their level.

Stooping down to a food bowl on the ground can hurt cats' necks so this elevated design will be more comfortable for them, and is particularly beneficial for elderly cats.

The bowls are evenly spaced to enable cats to eat side by side without causing food aggression, and if you only have one animal you could fill one bowl with water. It's available in five colours including orange, purple, blue, lime green and pink

Buy now on Kitty Glitz

Golden Husky Faux Fur Dog Blanket, £49

A must for pampered pooches, you can throw this golden husky faux fur blanket over sofas or in their dog bed for some extra warmth in the winter months.

Faux fur is incredibly comfortable for dogs to snuggle up in and looks a lot more stylish than a fleece blanket. The golden husky colour will work with all home décor schemes, adding a touch of elegance to your room while being practical and comfortable for your canine.

They are backed with cuddle soft velboa which also means that they are fully machine washable.

Buy now on The Stylish Dog Company

Check out our discount section for Christmas deals and offers.

MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.