An Adelaide man who plunged a knife into a woman's chest, punched her in the head and threatened to kill her after she made his mother cry has been jailed for at least four years.

The man also posted about his intention to attack his victim online before the incident in January last year.

In District Court sentencing remarks posted online, Judge Paul Muscat said the woman no longer felt safe in her own home and it was only by luck that her wounds were not fatal.

An Adelaide man who plunged a knife into a woman's chest, punched her in the head and threatened to kill her after she made his mother cry has been jailed for at least four years (stock)

He said the attack came after the man's mother had visited him at the property where he rented a room from his victim.

A few days later, he burst into her room in the early hours of the morning armed with a knife.

He jumped on top of her as she lay in bed, held the knife to her throat and kept repeating 'how dare you make my mother cry'.

At one stage the woman managed to seek refuge in her bathroom but the 37-year-old kicked the door in and plunged the knife into her upper body.

'At first the victim did not realise that she had been stabbed, thinking you had only punched her,' Judge Muscat said.

'She then felt the warm sensation of blood running down the side of her body and noticed the knife was embedded in her side.'

When police arrived they found the man sitting in the backyard with a stubbie of beer and blood over his shirt and his face.

Judge Muscat said just before the attack, the man had posted his intentions online saying he was finding it difficult to keep his 's**t' together.

The man pleaded guilty to threatening to kill and attempting to cause serious harm for what the judge said was an 'extreme, premeditated, unprovoked and dangerous' attack.

He said it was a totally unacceptable and irrational overreaction to something the man perceived the victim said or did and jailed him for six years and five months with a non-parole period of four years.