He's the former Today show weatherman who currently shares parental duties with his ex wife Rose Jacobs.

And after his shock axing from Nine's 2020 lineup last week, Steve Jacobs has revealed that spending quality time with his two girls gives feeling joy.

Taking to his Instagram on Monday, Steve, 52, shared footage of his two daughters Isabella, seven, and Francesca, five, being treated to their Christmas gifts early.

'My girls fill me with joy': Steve Jacobs (right) dotes over his children as he gifts them their Christmas presents early. Pictured: (L to R) Isabella, seven, and Francesca, five

'My favourite moment of every year without compare,' he captioned the post.

Steve went on to explain: 'Santa had to come early this year but the excitement was still the same. My girls fill me with joy. Merry Xmas everyone.'

In the clip, the former Today show weatherman is seen following his two daughters as they rushed down the stairs to find a stack of gifts underneath a Christmas tree.

End of an era: It comes after the Nine personality broke his silence about why he won't be returning to the Today show in 2020, telling his Instagram followers: 'Sadly I can't commit to the future travel requirements of the job and have to put my beautiful daughters first'

'Woah! Santa came,' one of the girls is heard screaming with excitement.

'Oh my gosh he, came,' Steve replied.

It comes after the Nine personality broke his silence about why he won't be returning to the Today show in 2020.

Family first! Steve went on to say, '[My girls] are my world, my life and my joy… Looking forward to having breakfast with my girls and doing school drop off'

Taking to his Instagram page, he wrote: 'Sadly I can't commit to the future travel requirements of the job and have to put my beautiful daughters first.'

He went on to say: 'They are my world, my life and my joy… Looking forward to having breakfast with my girls and doing school drop off.'

The former Nine presenter announced his split from wife Rose Jacobs, also a weather presenter, in March 2018.