He confirmed in July he had married his partner Cherry Seaborn after four years together.

And Ed Sheeran and his wife looked happier than ever as they put on a very cosy display in the music video for his new song, Put It All On Me, featuring Ella Mai.

The pair were among several loved-up dancing couples that featured in the new release, which also appeared to finally confirm Ed and Cherry's secret wedding date.

Happy: Ed Sheeran and his wife Cherry Seaborn looked happier than ever as they put on a very cosy display in his new music video, Put It All On Me, featuring Ella Mai

The candid recording filmed couples from all over the world and told of their different love stories.

But one thing they all had in common was a love of dance, with each pair exhibiting their moves in a heartwarming clip.

And while at first it seemed that the video didn't feature Ed, 28, at all, he finally appeared towards the end, with his new wife in tow.

Larking around in their kitchen, the duo looked close as they danced about and snacked on onions rings and beer.

Man and wife: The pair were among several loved-up dancing couples that featured in the new release, which also appeared to confirm Ed and Cherry's wedding date

Showing their love, they sweetly kissed and cuddled in the clip, before collapsing onto their sofa in fits of giggles.

The duo dressed down for the video, with Ed donning a red and blue tartan shirt, while Cherry, 27, rocked a bright tie-dye hoodie.

As they danced words appeared on the bottom of the screen giving a brief description of their love, at the same time confirming the month in which they tied the knot - January 2019.

So sweet: The candid recording filmed couples from all over the world and told of their different love stories

Adorable: But one thing they all had in common was a love of dance, with each pair exhibiting their moves in a heartwarming clip

The video read: 'Back in high school, Ed & Cherry were crushing hard. They made out at the castle on the hill.

'A few years ago they reconnected, there were fireworks. They married in January 2019.'

It comes after Ed confirmed in July that he had married Cherry, following rumours that the couple had tied the knot over the Christmas period.

There they are: And while at first it seemed that the video didn't feature Ed, 28, at all, he finally appeared towards the end, with his new wife in tow

Fun times: Larking around in their kitchen, the duo looked close as they danced about and snacked on onions rings and beer

The singer revealed Cherry is his wife in an interview with Charlamagne The God to promote his album No.6 Collaborations Project.

After Charlamagne The God asked about lyrics on the album which refer to the singer's 'wife', Ed admitted that he wrote the words before the couple tied the knot, but he 'knew that we'd be married' by the point that the song came out.

The Grammy award winner and Cherry wed just after Christmas 2018, in a ceremony which saw just 40 close friends and family in attendance, according to a report in The Sun.

Casual: The duo dressed down for the video, with Ed donning a red and blue tartan shirt, while Cherry, 27, rocked a bright tie-dye hoodie

Besotted: The pair appeared infatuated as they larked around for the new music video

'Neither of them were that fussed about making a big deal about it. Cherry just wanted to get it out of the way without any problems or intrusions.'

The source went onto claim that Ed and Cherry were planning a big festival-style wedding for the summer for their celebrity pals, which reportedly took place in September.

Ed announced his engagement to Cherry in January 2018 with a candid Instagram snap, gushing to fans: 'Got myself a fiancée just before new year. We are very happy and in love, and our cats are chuffed as well xx'

The couple are thought to have started dating in 2015, with Ed's best pal Taylor Swift sharing a photo of the pair kissing on her Instagram account.

Smooch: Showing their love, they sweetly kissed and cuddled in the clip, before collapsing onto their sofa in fits of giggles

Wedded bliss: As they danced words appeared on the bottom of the screen giving a brief description of their love, at the same time confirming the month in which they tied the knot

The new music video comes days after Ed bagged another award for his mantelpiece – he is Britain's No 1 artist of the decade.

His 'Official Chart Record Breaker' award is for the most No 1 hits (12 in total) on the singles and albums charts from 2010 to 2019 and the most weeks at No 1 (79, which adds up to more than a year and a half at the top).

Sheeran's hit Shape of You was named biggest song of the decade after spending 14 weeks at No 1 in 2017 with more than 4.5million sales, and two more of his songs – Thinking Out Loud and Perfect – are in the decade's top five.

Thanking his supporters, Ed said: 'Thank you to everyone who supported me over the past ten years, especially my amazing fans. Here's to the next ten.'