Eddie Gallagher has met with Donald Trump and his wife Melania at their Mar-a-Lago estate to 'thank' the president after he overruled the Navy's decision to strip the SEAL of his Trident pin.

Eddie and his wife Andrea shared a series of images from the event in Palm Beach, Florida, where the first family will be spending Christmas.

They gave the president 'a little gift from Eddie's deployment to Mosul' during the meeting.

The couple were also pictured alongside Don Jr., later adding on Instagram: 'God Bless the Trump family and all they are doing for this country!' They are understood to have been at a Turning Point USA party.

Chief Petty Officer Gallagher was accused of war crimes that included murder in the fatal stabbing of an Islamic State militant captive in his care and attempted murder in the shootings of civilians during a 2017 deployment to Iraq.

In the end, the military jury acquitted Gallagher of all the charges except one, posing in photos with the dead captive. He was demoted but was later allowed to keep his Trident Pin and retire a SEAL after an intervention by Trump.

Eddie and his wife Andrea shared a series of images from Palm Beach, Florida, where the first family will be spending Christmas. They gave the president 'a little gift from Eddie's deployment to Mosul' during the meeting on Saturday, pictured

Eddie Gallagher also met with Don Jr. at the event on Saturday evening, pictured

Eddie and his wife Andrea shared a series of images from the event in Florida

The couple wrote on their shared Instagram account Saturday night: 'Finally got to thank the President and his amazing wife by giving them a little gift from Eddie's deployment to Mosul. #TRUMP2020 @realdonaldtrump @flotus.'

A series of pictures shows the Gallaghers meeting with Donald and Melania in civilian formal wear.

The president can be seen holding the gift, which has not been identified, after landing into Palm Beach on Friday.

Eddie and Andrea Gallagher met with Donald Trump and his wife Melania to 'thank' the president after he overruled the Navy's decision to strip the SEAL of his Trident pin

Trump took an interest in the case after Bernard Kerick, a former business partner to Trump personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani, became an advocate for the family and made appearances in conservative media.

He tweeted in support of Gallagher, praising the sailor's service to the country and saying the case was 'handled very badly from the beginning'.

Shortly after the trial, Trump got involved again by ordering the Navy to withdraw commendations that prosecutors received for their work.

Trump last month directed the Navy to restore Gallagher to his previous rank as he issued pardons to two Army soldiers.

Chief Petty Officer Gallagher, pictured, was accused of war crimes but was acquitted on all the charges except one, posing in photos with the dead captive

The Navy’s top SEAL, Adm. Collin Green on November 19 notified Gallagher that he would be undergoing a peer-review process to determine whether he was still suitable to be a SEAL. Three other SEAL officers who oversaw Gallagher during the Iraq deployment also were notified they were being reviewed.

Then, at the end of November, Trump gave Defense Secretary Mark Esper a direct order to allow Gallagher to retire without losing his SEAL status.

US Navy Secretary Richard Spencer, who was fired from his position, publicly disagreed with that decision.

Angered by Trump's interference in disciplinary matters, Spencer wrote a stinging letter, which read: 'I no longer share the same understanding with the Commander in Chief who appointed me, in regards to the key principles of good order and discipline.'

Trump tweeted: 'Eddie will retire peacefully with all of the honors that he has earned.'

Defense Secretary Mark Esper said he had asked for Spencer's resignation 'after losing trust and confidence in him regarding his lack of candor over conversations with the White House,' the Department of Defense said in a statement.

Trump continued to defend his decision on Gallagher, stating: 'I think what I'm doing is sticking up for our armed forces. And there's never been a president that's going to stick up for them and has like I have'.

Gallagher celebrates with his wife Andrea after being acquitted of premeditated murder at Naval Base San Diego in July. Gallagher was found not guilty in the killing of a wounded Islamic State captive in Iraq in 2017

US Navy Secretary Richard Spencer, right, was fired from his position after publicly disagreeing with Trump's order to allow Gallagher, left, to retire without losing his SEAL status

But his actions on behalf of Gallagher and the two soldiers have dismayed some military officials, who fear the actions undermine the military justice system.

Some believe the president should not have used his authority as commander in chief to erase the sentence handed down by military jurors who convicted Gallagher of posing with a dead Islamic State captive. Jurors recommended that he be demoted.

Other SEALs believe Trump, facing his own battle after his recent impeachment by the House of Representatives, had no choice but to intervene because of the Navy’s botched handling of the case.

That included the prosecution tracking the emails of Gallagher’s lawyers during the court martial, which the judge noted violated his due process rights.

On Sunday Donald Trump's motorcade was seen heading to the Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach, Florida

They thought Navy commanders went too far by calling a review board to determine whether Gallagher should remain a SEAL, just as the Bronze Star recipient was preparing to retire after two decades of service.

Trump stands little chance of being convicted and removed from office by the Republican-controlled Senate, which will weigh the two impeachment charges that were passed on Wednesday by the Democratic-led House of Representatives.

Republicans and Democrats are at loggerheads over how the trial will play out.

Democrats want to call top Trump aides as witnesses, and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has not yet sent the impeachment package to the Senate, a bid to increase pressure on Republicans in the upper chamber.