She is expecting her first child with her boyfriend Tom following a whirlwind romance.

And Danielle Armstrong was seen dancing the night away while acting as a bridesmaid at her friend Emma's wedding, held Hengrave Hall in Suffolk on Saturday.

The former TOWIE star, 31, cradled her blossoming bump as she cosied up to her boyfriend at the venue, before letting her hair down later in the evening.

Blossoming bump: Danielle Armstrong, 31, cradled her blossoming bump as she cosied up to her boyfriend Tom at her friend's wedding, held at Hengrave Hall in Suffolk on Saturday

Danielle exuded elegance as she displayed her pregnancy figure in an ivory gown in the series of snaps posted to her Instagram page.

In the post's caption she jokingly told Emma to 'join the gang and get baby making' as she congratulated the happy couple on their 'special day'.

She added: 'A Christmas Wedding. Thank you Mr & Mrs Bolton for having us apart of your special day.

'Emma I was honoured to be your bridesmaid and I know our sammy and your daddy will be the most proudest angels in the sky.

Glamorous: Danielle exuded elegance as she displayed her pregnancy figure in an ivory gown in the series of snaps posted to her Instagram page

'Love you both lots and may your marriage be filled with love laughter and good health... (now join the gang and get baby making). (sic)'

And Danielle proved pregnancy would not stop her partying, as she threw some shapes on the dance floor in a light-hearted video.

Danielle's cropped blonde tresses were teased into glamorous curls and she wore makeup to enhance her delicate features.

Bridesmaid: In the post's caption she told Emma to 'join the gang and get baby making' as she congratulated the happy couple on their 'special day'

Christmas wedding: She added, 'Thank you Mr & Mrs Bolton for having us [be a part] of your special day'

Despite being around five months pregnant, the television personality sported a pair of towering nude heels.

Meanwhile, her boyfriend Tom - whose surname is unknown - looked dapper in a three-piece navy suit.

He matched his floral purple tie with his pocket handkerchief and finished the look with brown brogues.

Still got it: Danielle proved pregnancy would not stop her partying, as she threw some shapes on the dancefloor in a light-hearted video

It comes after Danielle launched her very own YouTube channel, with the star planning on showcasing every aspect of her pregnancy.

Speaking in her very first post, she told how her beau Tom moved in with her after two weeks while also revealing that she plans to film the birth of her child.

Dressed in a black and white stripe polo top, Danielle looked fresh-faced as she delightedly spoke to the camera amid her foray into video making.

Detailing her new channel, the star briefly spoke about her time in TOWIE, adding her life had been 'crazy' since she left the ITVBe show.

Kind words: 'Love you both lots and may your marriage be filled with love laughter and good health... (now join the gang and get baby making),' she said

New venture: It comes after Danielle launched her very own YouTube channel, with the star planning on showcasing every aspect of her pregnancy

She then spoke about her various business ventures before revealing just how fast she and Tom's relationship moved.

She said: 'Apart from the businesses, I’m having a baby! So literally, the last three months has been quite crazy. I not only met the love of my life, who moved in with me after two weeks of dating, (I did know him 22 years).'

In September, Danielle confirmed she found love again with her childhood sweetheart, shortly after splitting from her boyfriend of two-and-a-half years Daniel Spiller.

Oh baby! Speaking in her very first post, the former TOWIE star told how her beau Tom moved in with her after two weeks while also revealing that she plans to film the birth of her child

YouTuber: Dressed in a black and white stripe polo top, Danielle looked fresh-faced as she delightedly spoke to the camera amid her foray into video blogging

At the time, she shared a loved-up Instagram post and wrote: 'Life has a funny way of working out just when I decided to give up on love my friend of 22 years swept me off my feet.

'You don’t find love it finds you, it’s got a little a to do with destiny & fate, and what’s written in the stars #mybestfriend #love #happiness'.

She then told how her viewers will get to witness every aspect of her pregnancy in the behind-the-scenes look at her life, including the birth.

Revelation: 'So literally, the last three months has been quite crazy. I not only met the love of my life, who moved in with me after two weeks of dating'

It's official: Back in September, Danielle confirmed she had found love again with her 'best friend of 22 years' Tom (pictured) shortly after her split from Daniel Spiller

Danielle continued: 'So I’m calling my channel, Danni Keeping It Real, because I want to show you everything about pregnancy and the real side to it. I want to show you me crying, me laughing, me just doing and experiencing everything you do first time pregnant.

'I even want to try and film the birth. Tom is being a bit funny about it but I do feel like we can get around it.'

Adding that she's keen on having her fans with her every step of the way, Danielle said: 'There’s so much of my pregnancy I want to show you guys and I just want it to be as real as possible and for you to feel like you’re on this journey with me.'

Candid: 'I even want to try and film the birth. Tom is being a bit funny about it but I do feel like we can get around it'

Danielle's YouTube debut comes after she discovered the sex of their baby via pink fireworks at her gender reveal party in Essex.

Danielle was congratulated by a host of reality star pals including Jess Wright and best friend Ferne McCann after the big gender reveal.

To announce the news, the blonde beauty opted for an epic firework display with the whole party heading outside to watch an explosion of pink light up the sky.

While Ferne and Jess cheered from the sidelines, Danielle held her hands to her mouth and broke down in tears at the realisation she was having a baby girl.

And the fitness guru pulled out all the stops for the lavish gender reveal bash, which came complete with pink and blue balloons, a flower wall and a giant baby block.

Parents to be: Danielle's YouTube debut comes after she discovered the sex of their baby via pink fireworks at her gender reveal party in Essex

Expecting: The first-time mum revealed they were expecting their baby in May 2020 at the bottom of the Polaroid collage

The first-time mum, who announced she was expecting earlier this month, proudly cradled her baby bump as she posed with Tom clutching a balloon 'It's a girl' after finding out the sex of their baby.

The reality starlet is believed to be just over three months pregnant as she revealed they were expecting their baby in May 2020 at the bottom of the Polaroid collage.

The television personality captioned the post: 'The Best Part Of Us Will Be You'.

Danielle later took to her Instagram stories and said: 'Hi guys, I just wanted to do a quick insta story obviously the news is now out.

'Tom and I are expecting our first baby together next year. May 2020. I love that it's 2020.

'Anyway I'm so excited. I just want to say thank you to everyone who has been sending me messages.

'I'm actually a little bit overwhelmed to be honest and my fun hasn't stopped. Very exciting times.'