Olympia Valance has one of the most toned figures in the business.

And on Sunday, the actress put her curves on display as she slipped into a Princess Jasmine-inspired outfit from the 1992 animated Disney movie, Aladdin.

The 26-year-old former Neighbours star took to her Instagram to give fans a sneak peek at the Melbourne photo shoot.

She's a real life princess! Olympia Valance (left) looked every inch the Disney icon as she channeled Jasmine alongside a camel on Sunday

Olympia looked every inch the Disney princess in an extravagant blue dress and a metallic headpiece, while she sat besides a camel.

The Playing For Keeps starlet accessorised her look with Moroccan-inspired gold jewels which included a dangling necklace and a series of gold bracelets on her arms.

'It's safe to say we stopped some serious traffic outside Crown Melbourne the other day. I've also found my new spirit animal. The camel,' she wrote alongside the snap.

Strike a pose! Olympia looked every inch the Disney princess in an extravagant blue dress and a metallic headpiece

Olympia went on to write: 'The camel's handler told me that camels will only move if absolutely necessary and I very much relate to that. Thanks [stylist] Meggy Smith for making me look like the Disney princess I've always wanted to be.'

Her latest post comes after she sparked engagement rumours earlier this month after she shared a loved-up snap with her AFL star boyfriend, Thomas Bellchambers.

At the time the Melbourne-based actress posted a black-and-white image of the pair passionately hugging.

'I plan on bugging you every single day': Olympia sparked engagement rumours earlier this month after she shared a loved-up snap with her AFL star boyfriend, Thomas Bellchambers

But it was her cheeky caption that had tongues wagging, with the brunette beauty writing, 'I plan on bugging you every single day for the foreseeable future.'

Olympia debuted her relationship with the Essendon player back in June.

And it looks like things are getting serious for the couple.

Smitten: Olympia debuted her relationship with the Essendon Bomber player back in June



