Bet365, whose billionaire boss Denise Coates paid herself £323 million last year, has been accused of using 'backdoor algorithms' to block potential big winners.

A former employee has claimed that the company identified accounts that threaten its profits and limit the amount of money they can bet, or even block them completely.

The former Bet365 worker explained that the 'backdoor algorithms' would assign a risk rating to customers, making sure that, in the long term, they 'can't win'.

It comes after it was revealed that Ms Coates, 52, took home a salary of £277million along with a 50 per cent share of the company's £92.5million dividend last year, the largest figure ever for a UK company director.

Bet365 paid its top directors and managers £428million, with the highest paid director, understood to be Denise Coates, taking home £323 million last year

The gambling company has grown rapidly since its launch in 2001.

Documents revealed sales of almost £3billion at the company last year, with £85million given away to charity - an increase from last year's £75million.

Bet365 paid its top directors and managers £428million, with the highest paid director, understood to be Ms Coates, receiving a £277million salary.

Operating profits were revealed as £767million, with £64billion worth of bets wagered in the year to March 2019.

Now, James Poppleton, who worked for Bet365 for 18 months, told ABC News that the company have a system to make sure they don't lose big money.

He said: 'Your data tells them how many bets you've placed, what sport you've put it on, your average bet, your total turnover and your win or loss ratio to the company.'

Mr Poppleton explained that the algorithm would kick in after a victory and would ensure potential big winners couldn't bet any large amounts.

Last year Denise Coates, who runs the gambling company with her father Peter (both pictured), brother John and finance director Will Roseff, received a £220million salary and £45million in dividends

Betting companies have often limited some customers from gambling, usually targeting professional or highly successful gamblers.

However, Bet365 is thought to be the first company to use this tactic more widely.

Brian Chappell, founder of campaign group Justice for Punters said Bet365 'changed everything' went it went online.

He told the Times: 'What Bet365 were doing was a new business model, which was offers to entice people to join them and then to ban everybody who is any good at all.'

Mr Chappell added that Bet365's model is to 'play the customer not the market'.

Supporting Mr Poppleton's claims, he also said that the company identifies successful gamblers and then reduces the stakes they can place or doesn't offer them odds at all.

Denise Coates snapped up plots of land surrounding the area where she is building a glass palace, it was revealed last year (pictured artist's impression)

In December 2018 it was revealed that Ms Coates spent a staggering £5.5 million buying up hundreds of acres of farmland which surround her new space age home, snapping up 12 separate plots of land since 2014

The incredible enormous futuristic glass home complete with a 7,000 square metre artificial lake, a boat house, a sunken tennis court, stables, walled gardens and a cycle path and a glass lake house on the water (pictured)

Bet365 refuted the claims in a statement: 'Online gambling operators, including Bet365, seek to manage their liabilities by restricting or refusing to accept bets/wagers from certain customers. A bet is a commercial arrangement between two willing parties and there is no statutory right to bet.

'In the same way that a customer can decide whether or not they wish to place a bet, a gambling business is also free to decide who they accept bets from, and on what terms, to manage their business and financial liabilities, just as an insurance company may do when setting premiums.

'Accordingly, any restrictions that Bet365 may place on customer accounts are fully compliant with both legislation and regulation, in accordance with published terms and conditions and impact a very small minority of customers.

'Contrary to your suggestion, Bet365 does not consider it pioneered a risk-management process which has been evident in the land-based gambling sector and other sectors for decades.'

Ms Coates is the founder of Bet365.

She became convinced online gambling would soon replace traditional betting shops and convinced her brother John to support her plans.

She founded the online gambling company in the early 2000s after spotting the potential of internet betting to revolutionise the industry.

Ms Coates has been credited with turning a modest family business into a global firm raking in millions, being seen as a 'local girl done good', creating more than 3,000 jobs in her native Stoke-on-Trent when the huge Bet365 HQ was built.

Ms Coates owns around half of the shares in the company, according to Forbes, which places her 244th in the list of the world's billionaires, with a net worth of £9.3 billion.

Gamblers placed £64.5 billion in bets with the company over the financial year, nearly a quarter up on the year before, Bet365's accounts show.