Elizabeth Sobinoff has been adding to her ever-growing tattoo collection, getting a third massive piece in a week.

The former Married At First Sight star took to Instagram Stories on Sunday to reveal her latest ink - an elaborate design down one side of her back.

The 27-year-old twirled for the camera, showing off the design, which features a teacup with a fancy spoon inside it.

Painted lady! Married At First Sight star Elizabeth Sobinoff (pictured) got a third giant tattoo in the same week, showing off the results to Instagram on Sunday

A bird sits on the edge of the cup, and the whole fairytale-style scene is flanked by elaborate flowers.

Nestled in the teacup's handle is a spider's web, from which emerges a black spider, swinging off a web.

Elizabeth wrote across the video: 'Coming together nicely' implying she had more work to go, and tagged the artist, MontyG, from Honey Ink in Green Hills, East Maitland, NSW.

New ink! The new design features a teacup with a fancy spoon inside it. A bird sits on the edge of the cup and a spider is shown swinging off a web, with the scene flanked by flowers

The whimsical scene sits under another new tattoo, which the reality star first showed off on Instagram just a week ago.

Pulling up her black top, the brunette proudly revealed a bee and flower design across her torso, followed by a kookaburra on one side of her back.

Elizabeth has quite the tattoo collection and in June, she got a comprehensive new inking, spanning from her back, down the side of her body, and to her thigh.

She's running out of space! Elizabeth debuted two huge new tattoos on her stomach and back (pictured) just last weekend

More ink: The whimsical new scene sits under another recent tattoo which the reality star showed off on Instagram just a week ago - a kookaburra on her back

Elizabeth wrote across the video: 'Coming together nicely' implying she had more work to go, and tagged the artist, MontyG (right) from Honey Ink in Green Hills, East Maitland, NSW

The sprawling design, incorporating various animals, was inspired by the children's book Possum Magic, by author Mem Fox, and the TV show The Animals of Farthing Wood.

'It is based on Possum Magic illustrations and Farthing Wood,' she said during an appearance on Today Extra in June.

'I was obsessed [with the books] growing up and each animal that is tattooed on me has a specific meaning.'