Ms Hayes said she wants her fiance to be remembered as the 'hero' he was

Mr Keaton is survived by his fiance Jess and their 19-month-old son Harvey

Mr O'Dwyer is survived by his wife Melissa, and their three young kids

The heartbroken wives of two firefighters killed when a falling tree crushed their truck have spoken out about their grief.

Andrew O'Dwyer, 36, and Geoffrey Keaton, 32, died on Thursday night when a burnt gum tree slammed into their fire truck at Buxton, south of Sydney.

Both men had been volunteer members of the Horsley Park Rural Fire Service brigade for more than a decade.

Mr Keaton has a young 19-month-old son Harvey, and Mr O'Dwyer has a 19-month-old daughter Charlotte, and two young sons.

On Saturday, Mr O'Dwyer's wife Melissa, Mr Keaton's fiancé Jess Hayes, RFS Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons and other fire crew members gathered at Horsley Park RFS Station to pay tribute to the two mates.



'I am still in denial. It is always in the back of your mind but the boys have always got each other's back,' Ms O'Dwyer told the gathering, the Daily Telegraph reported.

Andrew O'Dwyer (left) and Geoffrey Keaton (right) were killed when their truck rolled off the road after hitting a fallen tree on Thursday night at Buxton, south of Sydney

Jess Hayes (left) said she wants her fiance Geoff Keaton (top) to be remembered as the 'hero' he was. Pictured with their son Harvey

Mr O'Dwyer leaves behind his wife Melissa (right), young daughter Charlotte (middle) and two young boys

The grief-stricken mother said her kids now have uncles and aunties in the RFS to look up to.

Ms Hayes described her fiance as a proud dad who would do anything to help his family and friends.

'He would drive me mad giving up stuff at home to help people… I would give anything for that now,' she said.

Ms Hayes said she wants her children to be remember their father as the 'hero' he was.

Mr Fitzsimmons said Mr Hayes and Mr O'Dwyer would have survived if their truck had been travelling just a second slower or faster.

Just hours before his death, Mr O'Dwyer shared a video of him and a colleague battling a blaze.

Ms O'Dwyer said she is still in denial over her husband Andrew's death

Ms Hayes described Geoff as a proud dad who would do anything to help his family and friends

Mr Keaton had risen to the role of deputy captain after joining the Horsley Park RFS brigade in 2006.

After Saturday's emotional gathering, members of the 68-strong brigade put aside their grief to get back on their trucks and help battle blazes amid catastrophic conditions.

The brigade had three crews fighting fires with their trucks emblazoned with 'In memory of Geoff Keaton' and 'In memory of Andrew O'Dwyer' on their fronts.

'In true Horsley Park spirit, our crew are heading out today as part of a Cumberland Zone Strike Team in memory of Geoff and Andrew,' a post on the Horsley Park RFS Facebook page said.

'To all crews in the field today, stay safe and look after each other.'

NSW premier Gladys Berejiklian paid tribute to the 2,000 volunteer firefighters who were deployed across the state on Saturday, saying the death of Mr Keaton and Mr O'Dwyer had rocked them and their families.

'Especially after the tragic loss of Geoff and Andrew yesterday, our heart goes out to the volunteers who are in the field,' Ms Berejiklian said.

'No doubt their loved ones will be worried about what they might face today as they leave the front door.

Mr O'Dwyer (far left) stands in front of the truck he was riding in on Thursday night with his Horsley Park RFS colleagues and Australian Idol runner up Shannon Noll

Mr Keaton and Mr O'Dwyer's were killed after their RFS truck (pictured) crashed into a fallen tree and rolled

'We say our thoughts and prayers are with you, we're deeply grateful. And we appreciate today especially every firefighter, every loved one, every family member carries a heavy heart with them.'

Opposition leader Anthony Albanese criticised Prime Minister Scott Morrison for saying earlier in December that volunteers 'want to be' battling the relentless blazes.

He renewed calls for volunteer firefighters to be compensated through tax breaks, one-off payments or special leave entitlements.

'They do not want to be there. They would rather be at home safe with their families,' Mr Albanese said.

'I met one person yesterday who has worked every single day since September. He began fighting the fires at Tenterfield and he is now fighting to defend his local community.

'The problem with this government is that it does not seem to be prepared to acknowledge that this is not business as usual.'

Firefighters laid flowers and embraced one another at the Horsley Park Rural Fire Brigade in Sydney on Friday