Hours after San Francisco 49ers backup quarterback C.J. Beathard learned his younger brother was fatally stabbed, he left town to be with his family and was forced to miss a game Saturday night.

But before he left, the football star gave his head coach Kyle Shanahan one last message: 'You make sure the guys go win this game.'

Clayton Beathard, 22, was stabbed along with Paul Trapeni III, 21, on Saturday shortly before 3am outside The Dogwood Bar in Nashville, Tennessee following an alleged argument over a woman.

On Sunday the San Francisco 49ers shared touching video of Coach Shanahan's heartbreaking speech in the locker room after the team beat the Los Angeles Rams 34-31.

'I didn't know what to say to you guys at the beginning of this day because you guys know what happened last night. Having to go spend an hour with C.J. last night... you guys know how tough this is for him and his family right now,' Shanahan said, his voice quivering with emotion.

'He barely could talk and the last thing he said to me before I walked out the door, he stops me and goes, make sure the guys go win this game.'

Hours after San Francisco 49ers backup quarterback C.J. Beathard learned his brother was fatally stabbed on Saturday he left town and was forced to miss a game. Before leaving he told his coach: 'Make sure the guys go win this game'

Clayton Beathard (left) - the 22-year-old brother of the San Francisco 49ers backup quarterback C.J. Beathard - was fatally stabbed outside a Nashville bar early Saturday morning. Paul Trapeni III, 21, (right) was also killed in the altercation

'I didn't want to say that at the beginning of the game because this game doesn't mean anything compared to his brother, we all know that. But you guys also know C.J., he's got our backs and we've got his,' Coach Shanahan continued.

'It was a special day for us, guys. And I'm so thankful for you guys that you could do that for him. Cause that was the last thing he said to me and I know that still meant a lot to him,' he added.

In the clip the camera captures the downcast and emotional faces of Beathard's teammates, mourning the loss of their teammates' brother.

'It was definitely the toughest game of my career,' tight end George Kittle said. He and Beathard played at the University of Iowa together. 'Today was absolutely terrible, for me the entire day. It sucked all around. Overall it was just kind of a brutal day. We got that one for C.J. and I'm so happy we were able to do it.'

A manhunt is now underway in Tennessee for the stabbing assailant. Nashville Police released surveillance footage of three men and a woman they want to bring in for questioning.

The stabbings 'appear to have resulted from an argument over a woman that began inside Dogwood Bar and then turned physical when the parties went outside,' police say.

On Sunday the San Francisco 49ers shared touching video of Coach Shanahan's heartbreaking speech in the locker room after the team beat the Los Angeles Rams 34-31 on Saturday night

'I didn't know what to say to you guys at the beginning of this day because you guys know what happened last night. Having to go spend an hour with C.J. last night, you guys know how tough this is for him and his family right now,' Shanahan said in his emotional speech

'He barely could talk and the last thing he said to me before I walked out the door, he stops me and goes, make sure the guys go win this game,' Shanahan said to his players

Metro police were called to the bar on Division Street just before 3am. In the altercation a total of three men were stabbed.

Police say multiple people were involved in the outdoor fight.

Clayton and Paul Trapeni were stabbed in their sides and both taken to Vanderbilt Medical Center where they were pronounced dead, police said in a statement.

The third victim, 21, suffered injuries to his eye and arm and is still in the hospital, according to News Channel 5.

Cops are now looking for three men and a woman pictured in surveillance footage taken from the bar.

Wanted for questioning: Police shared these pictures asking for help in identifying the people pictured in surveillance footage at the bar for questioning on the stabbings

Two men wanted for questioning are pictured above

Cops released surveillance footage showing the woman and three men they want to speak to

The people cops want to speak to pictured above

Cops were called to the Dogwood bar on Division Street in Nashville just before 3am Saturday

Clayton played football at Long Island University in New York City.

Clayton and Trapeni were classmates and friends at Battle Ground Academy in Franklin, Tennessee.

C.J. Beathard, 26, the backup quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers immediately left the team and returned to the Nashville area to support his family on Saturday following news of the stabbing.

He has played 13 games in his three-year NFL career.

'The 49ers family was shocked and deeply saddened to learn of the tragedy involving C.J. Beathard's younger brother, Clayton,' the team said in a statement.

'We extend our heartfelt sympathies to C.J. and the entire Beathard family as they cope with the unthinkable loss of a loved one. C.J. has traveled home to join his family knowing he has the support of our entire organization as they grieve the passing of Clayton.'

'Today was absolutely terrible, for me the entire day. It sucked all around. Overall it was just kind of a brutal day. We got that one for C.J. and I'm so happy we were able to do it,' teammate George Kittle, who also played with Beathard in college at Iowa, said after the 34-31 win against the Rams.

C.J. Beathard #3 of the San Francisco 49ers pictured in the team locker room in August

'The 49ers family was shocked and deeply saddened to learn of the tragedy involving C.J. Beathard's younger brother, Clayton,' the team said in a statement

C.J. and Clayton Beathard are the grandsons of Hall of Fame football executive Bobby Beathard. They're also the sons of country music writer Casey Beathard and Susan Beathard. Their brother Tucker Beathard is a country music singer.

The Beathard released a statement on Saturday to the Tennessean in light of Clayton's death.

'It’s times like this I wish had Instagram and social media because the love and prayers have been so overwhelming. We cannot possibly thank you at the rate they come in texts and phone calls,' the statement said.

'Clay was an amazing, big and soft-hearted human being with an undeniable love for the Lord. He had his family's, friends' and teammates' backs even to a fault. I wish he would have been more inclined to take the high road but he hated "wrong."

'Yes, he was stubborn sometimes but mostly because his beliefs were strong. He lived a full life except for the chance at being the incredible father I knew he would have been. He loved kids, underdogs and the less fortunate. His little sister was his world and his love and pride for his older brothers was off the charts. He will be missed. That is an understatement. Nobody's light shined like his when he smiled.'

If you know the identities of any of these people, call Crime Stoppers at 615-742-7463.