Carlo Ancelotti has vowed to take Everton to the top places in the Premier League.

The legendary Italian manager took over at Goodison Park this morning with a clear message of intent.

‘I am here because of the ambition of the club and history, the tradition,’ Ancelotti said.

Carlo Ancelotti outlined his ambitions for Everton at his official unveiling on Monday

‘This club wants to improve and be better team and compete. These were the reasons I decided to come.

‘It’s one of the biggest clubs in England. It takes time. I don’t know how long. The aim is to improve our league position and play better quality. This team can be better.

‘The supporters want to see attractive football and I would like to put my style on the team. The Premier League is really competitive. The goal has to be to do well.

‘We want to be ambitious and be competitive also in Europe. We want to reach the top positions in the league.’

Ancelotti has managed some of the biggest clubs in the world, winning titles and cups at places like Chelsea, Real Madrid, Juventus, Milan and PSG. He was recently sacked from his post at Napoli.

Ancelotti wants Everton to return to the top positions in the Premier League

The 60-year-old – who has won the Champions League three times as a manager – confirmed today that former Everton striker Duncan Ferguson will remain on his staff after his recent stint as caretaker.

‘Duncan has done a fantastic job,’ he said.

‘I have watched the games. The spirit is good and I enjoyed it. I saw how the fans push the team, forward. That’s good also.

‘I like to have a former player on my staff. I had Claude Makelele at PSG and Zidane at Real Madrid.

‘Duncan Ferguson knows the players, the atmosphere at the training ground. It will be really helpful.’

Everton battled to a draw against Arsenal at the weekend in a disappointing stalemate

Aware that one of his former players Zlatan Ibrahimovic has advertised his services after leaving the MLS in America, Ancelotti joked that he may offer the Swede a role.

‘He is a good friend,’ said Ancelotti.

‘I have trained a lot of fantastic players but he has finished now in the MLS. I don’t know what his idea is. I will have to call him.

‘If he wants to come to Liverpool he can…but not to play!’