David Lammy has hinted at a potential bid for the Labour leadership to succeed Jeremy Corbyn.

The Tottenham MP would become the first black leader of the party, and has today set out plans for a type of 'civic nationalism' that is based on 'shared values' rather than race or religion.

He set out his stool in today's Observer, saying that he would decide over Christmas whether to run or back another candidate who might be better suited to beat Boris Johnson in 2024.

'The alternative to Boris Johnson's ethnic nationalism that Labour should offer is a civic nationalism,' Lammy writes.

Tottenham MP David Lammy would become the first BAME leader of the party, and has today set out plans for a type of 'civic nationalism' that is based on 'shared values' rather than race or religion

'To foster this, we need to construct new spaces and places in which the UK's diverse peoples can engage with each other and belong.'

Mr Lammy, who's North London constituency border Jeremy Corbyn's and Diane Abbott's, says he regards Corbyn as a friend but is scathing about his failings, which he says were responsible for Labour's worst general election defeat since 1935.

It was not Jeremy's righteous belief in economic justice that lost Labour this election,' he says.

'It was his perceived worldview, failure of competence, and mind-boggling decision to abdicate leadership on the biggest issue of the day [Brexit].'

He set out his stool in today's Observer, saying that he would decide over Christmas whether to run or back another candidate who might be better suited to beat Boris Johnson in 2024

So far only shadow foreign secretary, Emily Thornberry, and shadow Treasury minister Clive Lewis have announced they would stand for the party leadership.

Shadow Education Secretary Angela Rayner has ruled out running for the position, instead backing Rebecca Long Bailey, and is also considering a deputy leadership run.

According to a recent BMG survey for the Independent, traditional Labour voters want a decisive break from Mr Corbyn's agenda.

So far only shadow foreign secretary, Emily Thornberry, and shadow Treasury minister Clive Lewis have announced they would stand for the party leadership

Rebecca Long-Bailey (pictured) is at 3/1 odds to become leader if Mr Corbyn steps down as expected. She has been backed by Angela Rayner but has not confirmed she is running

Sir Keir Starmer is joint favourite to replace Jeremy Corbyn as Labour leader, according to the latest odds

The BMG poll found almost half of voters think Labour should ditch its current agenda of focusing tax rises on the wealthiest 5 per cent of the population, with just 27 per cent in favour of keeping the policy.

When asked about Labour's current positions on public spending and nationalisation, 45 per cent want the policies dumped, while in both cases close to a third do not.

Other candidates expected to stand in the upcoming leadership contest, which is likely to be concluded around March, include Wigan MP Lisa Nandy, and Jess Phillips.

Shadow foreign secretary Emily Thornberry and shadow Treasury minister Clive Lewis are the only two to have officially declared their candidacy.

Ms Phillips tweeted on Saturday about 'macarthyesq' (sic) propaganda being 'spread about me" after re-tweeting images of an "entirely faked newspaper article'.

She added: 'There's plenty to reasonably critique me on, knock yourselves out, but if you have to lie and misrepresent you harm not just me but our movement.'

The tweet containing the article has since been deleted.