He welcomed his first child, daughter Marlie-Mae, with fiancée Laura Byrne in June.

And on Sunday, Matthew 'Matty J' Johnson was reunited with fellow reality TV stars Courtney Dober and Clancy Ryan after going M.I.A for several months to focus on his family.

Taking to his Instagram, the 32-year-old shared a snap alongside the Bachelorette rejects who failed to find love on Georgia Love's season, as they caught up at Bondi Beach hotpot Good One.

'Sorry for boring you with stories about teething and nappy changes': Matty J (center) shared a snap as he was reunited with reality stars Courtney Dober (left) and Clancy Ryan (right)

'Reunited after far too long!' he captioned the snap.

Before adding: 'Sorry for boring you with stories about teething, nappy changes and what baby formula is Marlie-Mae's favourite.'

Quick to comment underneath the photo, Courtney wrote: 'I miss you already.'

Bromance! Quick to comment underneath the photo, Courtney wrote: 'I miss you already'. Meanwhile, Matty's fiancée Laura playfully commented: 'The boys are back in town'

Meanwhile, Matty's fiancée Laura playfully commented: 'The boys are back in town'.

The post comes after Laura and Matty recently celebrated Marlie-Mae turning six months old.

Laura, 33, took to her Instagram to share a tribute to her adorable bundle of joy as she marked a milestone.

Celebrations! The post comes after the couple recently celebrated their daughter Marlie-Mae Johnson turning six months old

Sharing a carousel of precious moments with her tot, she wrote: 'It's been my absolute pleasure to be your booby barista these past 6 months.'

She continued: 'You are the best boss in the biz, the head honcho, the big muchacho! We love you chicken nugget.'

Matty and Laura met on season five of The Bachelor in 2017 and Matty proposed in April while on a 'babymoon' holiday in Fiji.

Speaking to The Daily Telegraph earlier this month, Matty said the couple are hoping to tie the knot next year, perhaps in September.