Charles Leclerc has signed a new long-term contract with the Ferrari Formula One team through to the end of the 2024 season.

Ferrari Academy driver Leclerc joined the Scuderia at the start of last season after a year plying his trade with Sauber, aggreeing a deal believed to last until the end of the 2021 season.

But he has been rewarded for a successful maiden campaign with Ferrari with a new and improved contract.

Charles Leclerc has been rewarded for a fine debut Ferrari season with a new deal until 2024

A delighted Leclerc said: 'I am very happy to be staying on with Scuderia Ferrari. This past season, driving for the most illustrious team in Formula 1, has been a dream year for me.

'I cannot wait to enjoy an even deeper relationship with the team after what has been an intense and exciting 2019. I'm keen to see what the future holds and I can't wait to get going again next season.'

LECLERC'S 2019 SEASON Total points: 264 Poles: 7 Wins: 2 Second place: 2 Third place: 6

Leclerc went into 2019 as teammate to Sebastian Vettel, who was given number one status by team principal Mattia Binotto due to his experience as a four-time champion and after four years with Ferrari.

But Leclerc quickly established himself, claiming two race wins and seven pole positions to the one victory and two poles for Vettel, and finishing 24 points ahead of the 32-year-old German in the drivers' standings.

The new deal makes clear that Ferrari see 22-year-old Monegasque Leclerc as their long-term future. Vettel's current deal expires at the end of 2020.

The 22-year-old driver from Monaco replaced Kimi Raikkonen at the start of the 2019 F1 season

Binotto has no doubt that with Leclerc, Ferrari will again be successful. Next term will be the team's 13th year without a drivers' champion, and 12 since they last won the constructors' championship.

Binotto said: 'With each passing race this year, our wish to extend our contract with Charles became ever more self-evident and the decision means he will now be with us for the next five seasons. It demonstrates that Charles and the Scuderia have a firm future together.

'Charles has been part of our family since 2016 and we are more than proud of the results we are achieving with our Academy.

'We are therefore very pleased to be able to announce that he will be with us for many years to come and I'm sure that together, we will write many new pages in the history of the Prancing Horse.'