Tim Robards has revealed he is jetting off to Los Angeles with wife Anna Heinrich for Christmas.

Doing so will mean the former Bachelor star is breaking a decades-old family tradition.

On Monday, the 37-year-old told The Daily Telegraph: 'Every year we do Christmas Eve at my Nanna and Pop's, then on Christmas morning we open presents with Mum and Dad and the extended family. I've never missed that tradition in 37 years.'

Leaving on a jet plane: The Bachelor's Tim Robards (right) revealed on Sunday that he is ditching his family Christmas plans to reconnect with wife Anna Heinrich (left) in Los Angeles

However, plans have changed this year as his, 'grandparents are no longer with us', so it will be the first time he'll miss 'his side of the family's celebrations'.

Tim explained that instead, he will be in Los Angeles with Anna's family, 'where we have organised a big Christmas lunch at a special little restaurant'.

The pair will get to reconnect after a busy year during where they spent a lot of time apart, the publication claims.

The 37-year-old said: 'Every year we do Christmas Eve at my Nanna and Pop's, then on Christmas morning we open presents with Mum and Dad and the extended family. I've never missed that tradition in 37 years'

Arms doors and cross-check: Tim explained that instead, he will be in Los Angeles with Anna's family 'where we have organised a big Christmas lunch at a special little restaurant'

The fitness guru recently shut down talk that he and wife Anna could be on the verge of a split.

After attending the Melbourne Cup, separately, both Anna and Tim were forced to deny there are issues between them.

Earlier this month, they shared several loved-up photos to Instagram which proved their relationship was going strong.

All okay! The fitness guru recently shut down talk that he and wife Anna could be on the verge of a split. Earlier this month, they shared several loved-up photos to Instagram

Loved up! In one snap, Tim appeared smitten with Anna, sharing a picture of the couple nestled in bed together on his own Instagram page

In one snap, the genetically blessed pair looked stronger than ever as they spent much-needed quality time together in Sydney.

In another, Tim appeared smitten with Anna, sharing a picture of the couple nestled in bed together on his own Instagram page.

The pair tied the knot in Italy in June 2018 after falling in love on the second season of The Bachelor.

Odd arrival: After attending the Melbourne Cup, separately, both Anna and Tim were forced to deny there are issues between them



