He stormed to a Conservative victory, snatching the North Yorkshire seat of Redcar from Labour for the first time since 1974.

But before Jacob Young properly arrives in Westminster, the newly-elected MP has pledged to keep working on Christmas Day with the rest of his factory colleagues because he, 'couldn't drop the lads in it'.

Aptly-named Young, 26, is among a new breed of 20-somethings nicknamed 'Boris's babies', who stormed Labour's traditional fiefdoms in the North and Midlands - and won.

Despite storming to victory in the recent election, Jacob Young has pledged to still work as a chemical engineer at Wilton on Christmas Day, because he 'couldn't drop the lads in it'

The Brexit-supporting chemical operator polled 18,811 votes, beating Labour's Anna Turley into second place with 15,289 and increasing the Tory vote share by 12.9 percentage points.

By contrast, in 2017 Turley polled 23,623 votes, with her nearest rival, Conservative candidate Peter Gibson pulling in 14,138 votes.

Three years ago, he helped lead the Vote Leave campaign in Teesside and in this month's general election, swept to power on the back of a message to 'Get Brexit Done'.

Speaking to Teesside Live about his momentous victory, the chemical process operator at Wilton said: 'I should have been working a three-month notice, but my employer has been really generous and said I can leave any time.

'But if I didn't do Christmas Day it I'd be dropping the lads at work in it.'

Aptly-named Young, 26, is among a new breed of 20-somethings nicknamed 'Boris's babies'

The Brexit-supporting chemical engineer polled 18,811 votes, beating Labour's Anna Turley into second place with 15,289 and increasing the Tory vote share by 12.9 percentage points

Intending to leave his job after January 1, 2020, Young added that he is looking forward to a new start as an MP and had already been busy receiving casework and correspondence to respond to.

He added: 'I've lived in Teesside my whole life and I didn't think change would come so quickly in our area, but I'm so pleased it has.'