She announced her split from Matt Agnew in an Instagram post last month.

And Bachelor winner Chelsie McLeod joked about her 'pretty chill year' in an Instagram post on Sunday.

Sharing a photo from the night prior with former co-star Kristen Czyszek and makeup artist Victoria Walton, the 28-year-old reflected on the events of 2019.

Having the last laugh: Bachelor winner Chelsie McLeod (left), 28, joked about her 'pretty chill year' in an Instagram post on Sunday. Pictured with former co-star Kristen Czyszek (centre) and makeup artist Victoria Walton (right)

'It's been a pretty chill year, really,' Chelsie wrote in the caption, alongside the eyes and crying laughter emojis.

'So grateful for so many things, including these two hunnies that have been there through it all,' the chemical engineer added, referring to her pals in the picture.

In the photo, Chelsie wore a black strapless ensemble, and styled her fair locks out and straight.

Her makeup was glamorous, and she beamed for the camera while taking the selfie.

Reflection: 'So grateful for so many things, including these two hunnies that have been there through it all,' the chemical engineer added, referring to her pals in the picture

On November 17, Chelsie and Matt, 32, took to their respective Instagram accounts to announce their shock split, just weeks after the Bachelor finale.

Matt informed fans that their relationship did not 'translate from filming to the real, everyday world'.

The astrophysicist said he wants Chelsie to 'find the happiness she deserves' and added that there was no one else involved in the split.

Over: Chelsie and Bachelor Matt Agnew (pictured), 32, announced their shock split on their respective Instagram accounts on November 17

Not to be: The astrophysicist informed fans that their relationship did not 'translate from filming to the real, everyday world'

Chelsie shared a number of pictures of the pair while thanking fans for support throughout their short-lived relationship.

'Thank you so much to everyone for your support and kind words over what was an incredibly exciting, rewarding, challenging, and emotional journey,' she wrote.

'Your words have not gone unnoticed. Matt showed me what it was like to be respected in a relationship and I am so thankful for that.'