Schalke say goalkeeper and captain Alexander Nubel will leave the club when his contract expires at the end of the season.

That could spark a battle among some of Europe's top clubs to sign the 23-year-old, who's quickly become one of the German league's top keepers.

Schalke sporting director Jochen Schneider said the club had spent months in discussions with Nubel and his representatives.

Alexander Nubel (right, playing for Germany Under-21s) is set to leave Bundesliga side Schalke

Schalke sporting director Jochen Schneider admitted that contract talks with Nubel had ended

The Germany Under-21 goalkeeper is currently serving a ban for being sent off after a karate kick challenge in the Bundesliga earlier this month but has been central to Schalke's success.

Nubel captained Schalke in their first 15 games of the season and club officials have spent months trying to convince him to play a central part in the club's future under David Wagner, who took Huddersfield to the Premier League.

In a statement, sporting director Jochen Schneider conceded: 'Following all the discussions that we have had with Alexander Nubel and his agent in recent months, we aren't surprised by his decision and of course respect it.

'However, we don't need to understand his decision. In recent months, we have clearly shown through words and actions how much of a central role he could have played with us in the future.

David Wagner has seen his Schalke side fail to win since Nubel began a four-match suspension

Nubel was dismissed after a reckless challenge on Eintracht's Mijat Gacinovic on December 15

'His role entails leading a very young team, which has already won over many admirers in the first half of the season, as goalkeeper and as captain.

'I'm convinced that Alex will give everything for the club until the end of the season. From summer 2020, we will continue on our path without him.'

Nubel, who will not return until January 31, has shone since replacing Ralf Rahrmann as first-choice goalkeeper midway through last season.

Schalke have lost just one of their last nine but have failed to keep a clean sheet in either of their matches since Nubel received his marching orders, drawing 1-1 at Wolfsburg on December 18 before a 2-2 stalemate at home to Freiburg on Saturday.