The boxer Anthony Joshua enjoyed a 'late-night flirtation' with Rita Mahrez, the wife of Man City player Riyad Mahrez.

The 26-year-old model and singer was seen with her hand on the heavyweight champion's knee at Tape night club in London.

She and the professional footballer Riyad, 28 — father to her two children — have agreed a trial split, and are living 200 miles apart.

The boxer Anthony Joshua enjoyed a late-night flirtation with Rita Mahrez, the wife of Man City player Riyad Mahrez. The couple are pictured in 2017

The 26-year-old model and singer was seen with her hand on the heavyweight champion's knee at Tape night club in London

A spokesman for Anthony Joshua (pictured) said: 'Anthony was approached in the nightclub and politely declined all advances'

A clubgoer told The Sun: 'Rita bumped into AJ on her way out and he invited her to join him at his table in VIP.

'Rita, who was with a female pal, clearly thought AJ was incredibly hot. They then spent much of the evening laughing and flirting.'

The source added that he didn't have a clue who she was but thought she was a pretty girl.

It is claimed that when the club owner pointed out she was Riyad's wife, Anthony become awkward and backed away.

Riyad and Rita with their daughter Inaya in 2016. The couple are reportedly now living apart

Anthony, 30, is the second boxer that Rita has been linked to, with reports emerging earlier this year of the American boxer Deontay Wilder (pictured) flirting with her at a club in Manchester

They then left the club at around 3am and got into separate cars.

Anthony, 30, is the second boxer that Rita has been linked to, with reports emerging earlier this year of the American boxer Deontay Wilder flirting with her at a club in Manchester.

Riyad (pictured)- who is Muslim - often shuns the party lifestyle

Riyad - who is Muslim - often shuns the party lifestyle and sources said he was devastated by Deontay's flirtation with his wife.

The couple have now left their Cheshire mansion after trying to salvage their four-year marriage.

Riyad is staying in a Manchester penthouse while Rita is in a £2million pad in Buckinghamshire, according to reports.

A spokesman for Anthony Joshua said: 'Anthony was approached in the nightclub and politely declined all advances.'

Joshua is single after his split from dancer Nicole Osbourne in 2016.