A savvy mother has shared her incredible kitchen transformation which cost just £105 - and she achieved the look with a lick of paint and upcycled furniture.

Cassie Middleton, from Ireland, shared the impressive before and after pictures to Facebook group DIY on a Budget and penned: 'My kitchen transformation... cost about £105 all together apart from the new toaster, kettle and microwave which was an early Christmas present because I had an epic fail at spray painting it.

'I put a lot of hours in, but I'm totally In love with the colours.'

The mother-of-twins was praised by friends who called the project 'stunning' and teased they would be heading to the same shops as her to replicate the renovation.

'Wow babe!!! What a fab job. Well done you. I love it so much', enthused one, while a second penned: 'Work tops looks lovely. You have done a lovely job. All of your kitchen looks lovely.'

Cassie Middleton, from Ireland, posted pictures to a DIY Facebook group showing her tired-looking kitchen before the stunning makeover (pictured before)

The mother-of-twins used a lick of paint, upcycled furniture and high street bargains to transform her kitchen (pictured after)

In the original caption, the thrifty homeowner told how she used just £6-a-roll vinyl to modernise the worktops, and paid £8 for cupboard paint from B&M.

Her jars were a bargain at £1, while she upcycled her old clock with leftover vinyl and some sticky foam numbers.

She continued: 'Utensils, holders, door handles, upcycled using Rustoleom rose gold spray paint £7 the range.'

'Tiles, 3d stickers from eBay, £8.99 for 10, used 2 packs of photo frames £2 each from the range.'

The mother-of-twins was praised by friends who called the project 'stunning' and teased that they would be heading to the same shops as her to replicate the make-over

For her worktop marble effect Cassie used vinyl at £6 a roll from B&M and used just three rolls for the entire project

Cassie says her utensils, holders, door handles were upcycled using Rustoleom rose gold spray paint costing £7 from The Range. Pictured, the transformation after

She added: 'Curtains, voile £15 for 3 x 180 x 120cm drop, then used netting wire, £2 all from the range. Mugs £1 each, Poundland, as are the dangling heart plaques.

'Baskets small 79p large £1.39 from poundstretcher, rug £9.99.'

Many were quick to take to the comments to share their praise, with one insisting she 'loves it so much,' while another asked if Cassie was available to transform her kitchen.

'Want to come and do my kitchen?' commented another, while a further wrote: 'That is stunning, I love your worktops and cupboards. Great job! Might go to b&m tomorrow haha.'

Cassie's tiles were stickers from eBay costing £8.99 for 10 and her picture frames were £2 each from The Range. Pictured, the transformation after