A Labour MP is being investigated by police over an allegation of sexual assault in a nightclub months before the general election.

The Parliamentarian allegedly touched someone's bottom on the dancefloor of the club, while spending the evening with people he knew and had met earlier that day.

He ran for, and won, re-election with his constituents none the wiser about the ongoing police inquiry - despite Labour having suspended a fellow MP in October over claims of sexual harassment.

The Telegraph reported that police have confirmed they are investigating an allegation of sexual touching on an evening in July.

Last night the MP strenuously denied the allegation, the paper said, describing it as 'wrong and false'.

The unnamed MP is a member of the Labour Party and was re-elected on December 12

He has not been arrested or interviewed by police, and said he had not been given any details of the complaint by them.

Labour was aware of the allegation and police investigation, the paper reported, but allowed the MP to retain the party whip and stand for re-election while the inquiry took place.

Labour has postponed any internal investigation until after the police inquiry is concluded, so the MP was not suspended and was returned to the Commons on Dec 12.

The party told MailOnline: 'The Labour Party takes all complaints extremely seriously, which are investigated and any appropriate disciplinary action taken in line with the Party's rules and procedures. We can't comment on individual complaints.'

Speaking to The Telegraph, a senior Labour MP said: 'Other people who have had similar allegations [made against them] were not allowed to stand as candidates.

'If it's true and he's been allowed to stand it's really not right. You can't treat one person different to another.'

Labour MP Stephen Hepburn was blocked from standing again after becoming the subject of an allegation of sexual harassment.

Mr Hepburn, who represented Jarrow, was suspended in October after it was alleged he had targeted a female party member on a night out in 2005. He 'completely refutes' the allegation.

He was barred from contesting his seat again by the party's ruling body, the National Executive Committee, in November.

The police force for the city in which the incident is alleged to have taken place told the Telegraph it was 'investigating an allegation of sexual touching which is believed to have taken place' in a bar in the early hours of a Sunday in July. '

The force said an investigation was underway and appealed for anyone with information to come forward.