Today's Birthday, December 23: Australian politician Sarah Hanson-Young (1983 - )

Greens Senator Sarah Hanson-Young broke down in tears earlier this year over her defamation case win against a former upper house colleague who she says "slut-shamed" her in parliament and the media.

Senator Hanson-Young was awarded $120,000 in damages after a judge found former senator David Leyonhjelm's repeated remarks - that she "stop shagging men" if she thought they were all rapists - suggested she was a misandrist and a hypocrite.

Senator Hanson-Young declared the ruling a victory for all women, and hopes the outcome will encourage more women into federal parliament.

"It's about letting young women know they have a right to be represented in this building," she told reporters in Canberra on November 25.

Born in Melbourne in 1983, Hanson-Young grew up in the small Gippsland town of Orbost and was home-schooled during her early years before attending the local high school.

She then moved to study at the University of Adelaide, where her political ambitions blossomed on campus. She served as an environment officer and students association president.

After graduating in 2002 and a short post-graduate stint as a bank teller, Hanson-Young drew upon her passion for human rights as a campaign manager for Amnesty International between 2004 and 2008.

Looking to insert youth into its ranks, the Greens turned to the then-25-year-old law student to lead its South Australian Senate ticket at the 2007 federal election.

Her win, aged 25 years and 11 months, made her the youngest person to enter Australia's upper house. Fellow Greens senator Jordon Steele-John broke that record when he was elected at age 23 in 2017.

In 2009, Hanson-Young sparked a debate about the place of children in parliament when her two-year-old daughter Kora wasn't allowed to enter the chamber while voting. Seven years later, the rules were changed to allow senators to care for their children for short periods in the chamber.

Since 2008, Hanson-Young has performed a number of roles for the Greens, but has been unable to move into the party's executive ranks with failed deputy leadership pushes in 2010 and 2012.

However, she has earned Senate re-election three times - in 2013, 2016 and 2019.