She lost eight kilos in time for her televised November wedding.

And Jules Robinson enjoyed a game of tennis with her Married At First Sight star husband Cameron Merchant in Sydney on Sunday.

In a photo shared to Instagram by her beau, the 37-year-old revealed her slimmed-down figure in a black T-shirt and leggings.

She's got game! MAFS' Jules Robinson, 37, (left) enjoyed a spot of tennis with husband Cameron Merchant, 35, (right) in Sydney on Sunday

Jules added a black cap and tinted sunglasses to the look, and secured her red locks in a ponytail at the nape of the neck.

She appeared to sport a light coating of makeup and held onto a racquet in one hand, as she beamed for the camera.

Meanwhile, Cameron, 35, donned a sleeveless grey tank top with a charity organisation's logo on the front, teamed with shorts and a cap.

The retired cricketer wrote in the caption: 'Game Set Match Weekend! Trust you enjoyed all of yours,' alongside hashtags including '40 love' and 'partner in crime'.

Transformation: Jules showed off her 8kg weight loss, in an Instagram post on Friday. Pictured on the left in August at the 3kg mark, and on the right in December at the 8kg mark

Love looks good on her: The beauty entrepreneur shared photos of herself on her December honeymoon in Vanuatu (pictured after her eight kilo weight loss)

Just days prior on Friday, Jules took to Instagram to show off her incredible 8kg weight loss in a series of before and after photos.

Jules, who tied the knot with Cameron in a legally-binding ceremony in November, said she was on a 'health mission' prior to the nuptials.

The beauty entrepreneur shared a photo of herself in a black one-piece swimsuit in August, where she had lost three kilos at the time.

Dedicated: 'I made it no secret that I was on a health mission before my wedding,' Jules told her followers in the post's caption

Televised nuptials: Jules vowed to lose the weight in time for her November televised wedding with Cameron

How she did it: Jules told New Idea in December, that alongside a Weight Watchers diet (that still includes carbs), she lost the weight with a varied fitness regimen

She compared this to photos taken during her December honeymoon in Vanuatu, where she had dropped a total of eight kilos.

Jules told New Idea magazine in December, that alongside a Weight Watchers diet (that still includes carbs), she lost the weight with a varied fitness regimen.

'On the run-up to the wedding, I was seeing my personal trainer, Nat, as often as I could, attending her paddleboarding and boxing on the beach classes too.

'My love of boxing has really grown over the last few months, and I'm much better at it now than when I first started.'