Jack Vidgen has a surprising doppelgänger.

Taking to Instagram on Sunday, the 22-year-old shared a photo where he'd been made-over to look like reality matriarch Kris Jenner.

The resemblance was uncanny, with Jack in a short black wig emulating the Keeping Up With The Kardashians star's flirty do.

It's uncanny! The Voice's Jack Vidgen (pictured) was made-over into Kris Jenner in an Instagram snap shared on Sunday

Heavy eyeliner and lashings of mascara added to the look. Even Jack's plump lips resembled Kris's famous pout.

Written across the photo were the words: 'Kris Jenner. I am king. I am queen. I am momager'.

I Am King, I Am Queen refers to Jack's latest single, the cover of which was used to make the edited photo.

Wow! The resemblance was uncanny, with Jack in a short black wig emulating the Keeping Up With The Kardashians star's flirty do. Pictured right: Kris Jenner

Look alike! Heavy eyeliner and lashings of mascara added to the look, while Jack's own plump lips resembled Kris' famous pout

The singer captioned the photo excitedly: 'Someone just sent me this on Twitter. I can't'.

It appears the photo was edited by a fan who saw a resemblance between the unlikely pair.

Jack's fans seemed very amused, with many writing 'OMG' and sharing a number of cry-laughing emojis.

Original: I Am King, I Am Queen is Jack's latest single, the cover of which (pictured) was used to make the edited photo

Jack, who has starred on Australia's Got Talent and The Voice, is currently competing for the chance to represent Australia at Eurovision 2020.

Speaking to The Daily Telegraph earlier this month, he said it's not just 'another singing contest'.

'I know [how people will react], but I feel this is such a different vibe; this is next level,' he explained.

On his way! Jack is currently competing for the chance to represent Australia at Eurovision 2020. Jack will compete alongside Diana Rouvas, Jordan-Ravi, and Jaguar Jonze in February

Jack will compete alongside The Voice winner Diana Rouvas, singer-songwriter Jordan-Ravi, and multimedia artist Jaguar Jonze, in a sing-off in February.

The winning entrant will then head to Rotterdam in the Netherlands in May to represent Australia at Eurovision 2020.

Jack co-wrote the song I Am King, I Am Queen, which details his struggles with identity and acceptance.