Her fiancé Jason Sudeikis was a regular fixture on Saturday Night Live from 2005 until 2013.

And Olivia Wilde used her backstage perks to get her hands on a one of a kind prop, taking home a book used by Eddie Murphy during one of the show's sketches on Saturday.

The actress, 35, showed off her find while heading over to the SNL afterparty in New York City.

Props to her! Olivia Wilde used her backstage perks to get her hone of a kind prop, taking home a book used by Eddie Murphy during a Saturday Night Live sketch on Saturday

She held the book, titled A** for Cash by Velvet Jones, aloft as she arrived at the venue with her fiancé Jason.

Velvet Jones was a character played by Eddie in Black Jeopardy.

Olivia put on a stylish display in an ankle-length blue dress before adding a splash of colour with platform magenta boots featuring a brown, red and orange design.

She kept warm in a monochrome striped coat and held her belongings inside a shimmering black bag worn across her chest.

Dapper: Olivia's fiancé Jason Sudeikis looked dapper in a brown cap and trousers teamed with a navy jacket as he joined her at the SNL afterparty

Olivia's blonde tresses were pulled back into an up-do as she entered the event.

Meanwhile, Jason, with whom she raises children Owen and Daisy, looked dapper in a brown cap and trousers teamed with a navy jacket.

He followed his partner's lead and added colour to his ensemble with a pair of exuberant bright blue Nike trainers.

Jason was hired as a sketch writer for SNL in 2003 before becoming a featured cast member on the show in 2005.

Between 2006 and July 2013 he was a regular and the still makes occasional appearances.

Proud: The actress, 35, held the book, titled A** for Cash by Velvet Jones, aloft as she arrived at the venue

Saturday's show marked the final episode of Saturday Night Live for this year and decade, and welcomed back one of its most beloved alumni - Eddie Murphy.

The Entertainer of the Year Lizzo brought the house down with Truth Hurts and Good As Hell.

Murphy, 58, was a regular cast member on Saturday Night Live from 1980 to 1984, and he was in rare form on Saturday's show.

At one point he 'crashed' the Weekend Update segment as the loudmouthed, brash Gumby and all but refused to leave.

Bowing out in style: Saturday's show marked the final episode of Saturday Night Live for this year and decade, and welcomed back one of its most beloved alumni - Eddie Murphy

'We love you even when we don't': One skit closed with a title card wishing viewers a happy holiday from SNL, saying 'To all our families: we love you even when we don't'

At the top of the program, Eddie resurrected some of his favourite skits, which started with Mister Robinson's Neighbourhood.

In the Robinson's skit, Murphy mentioned how a lot has happened since last audiences spent time with him — namely, gentrification.

He also talked about other new trends that have cropped up, including 23 and Me, which he identified as '23 people say, "My father is me!"'

Another cheeky moment came when Eddie and the cast appeared in a pre-recorded Christmas greeting from SNL, which showed a family gathered around a holiday table, with the father (Murphy) making a toast.

The skit closed with a title card wishing viewers a happy holiday from SNL, saying 'To all our families: we love you even when we don't.'