A bride has been branded 'tragic' after posing with her bridesmaids while holding bouquets made of beer bottles.

The woman, from the US, was shamed after a guest shared one of her wedding snaps to a Reddit group named Tacky and users were horrified by her 'bouquets' - that were made up of a single white flower in a bottle that still had the label on.

One critic insisted that although they understood the need for a 'budget wedding, ' they felt the bottles had no 'class,' while another raged that no effort had been put into the flowers.

'"Class". Dignity. Self respect. The slightest hint of pride? No?' commented one, while a second advised: 'That could've been cute if they either put more flowers inside the beer bottle, or made something ornate with the bottle caps to look like flowers.'

An anonymous US bride has been slammed after posing with her bridesmaids who can all be seen holding bouquets made of beer bottles (pictured)

More users insulted the wedding, with one suggesting the bride could have added some sophistication to the day had she focused on smaller details.

'I completely understand the need for a budget wedding. Or even a "quickie" wedding but you can still do fast and budget with some class.

'For instance, the addition of foot wear could make a world of difference. Hell, simple white flip flops with a color matched flower to the skirts would have been cute. I actually feel really bad for bridesmaid on the end.'

Another wrote: 'There are flowers in the beer bottles. It looks like they shared a single bouquet,' while a third added:

'They could have at least taken the labels off the beer bottles. This just looks like they decided at the last second that they needed something to put the flowers in and grabbed whatever was handy.'

One critic insisted that although they understood the need for a 'budget wedding', they felt the bottles had no 'class' (pictured)

It wasn't just the beer bottles that critics had a problem with, and many commented slamming the bride's outfit choice's with one dubbing them 'unforgivable'.

'And the bridesmaid's outfit...don't think they could of picked a more unflattering selection of clothes for every figure type,' wrote one, while a second commented:

'I can sort of imagine the outfit she's dreaming of for her bridesmaids, but it's so not happening. Looks like it was all bought on Amazon a week before the wedding.'

A third commented: 'The beer bottles I could forgive, the skirts absolutely not. Hideous colour and shape. What was she thinking?'