He's the Grammy award-winning DJ who made headlines for all the wrong reasons earlier this year.

But on Sunday, Flume, whose real name is Harley Edward Streten, put his fame to good use, as he shared a shirtless snap of himself headed for the Byron Bay surf.

In the caption, the 28-year-old producer urged his followers to sign a petition to raise awareness about climate change.

Vocal: Australian DJ Flume (pictured) has urged his 1.1million Instagram fans to sign a petition to raise awareness for climate change as he headed out for a surf in Byron Bay on Sunday

He wrote: 'It's been bittersweet returning home, absolutely devastating to see some of my favourite places in the world completely burnt out by fires.'

'I signed this open letter to Scott Morrison to take climate action today and you should too,' alongside a hyperlink to the Greenpeace petition.

The post comes after the ARIA award-winner shared a selfie with his father, Glen Streten, as they enjoyed a family outing at Manly Beach in Sydney last week.

Smile: Flume posed for a selfie with his father Glen Streten (left) in Manly last week

In September, Flume made headlines after he shocked fans when he 'performed an explicit sex act' on stage at Burning Man.

During a set at the week-long festival, held in Black Rock City in northwest Nevada, he was filmed doing the dirty with a female who was later revealed to be his rumoured girlfriend, actress Paige Elkington.

In the footage, Flume was seen seemingly performing a sex act for a few seconds before stepping back and flashing a faint smile to the audience.

'It was a joke... sorry mum': Australian DJ Flume has mocked his X-rated Burning Man sex act by posing with a peach in his mouth on Instagram

The artist later appeared to mock the incident as he uploaded a selfie to Instagram posing with a peach in his mouth before captioning the post: 'It was a joke (sorry mum).'

Flume was recently nominated for a Grammy award in the Best Dance/Electronic Album category for his 2019 mixtape Hi This is Flume.

The 62nd Grammy Awards will be held in Los Angeles on January 26.