She was left in tears last month as she revealed she was having an operation on her cervix to prolong her pregnancy.

But Chloe Goodman was full of smiles as she clutched her growing baby bump while leaving the Opiah Cosmetics clinic in Hove on Sunday.

The Celebrity Big Brother star, 26, cut a casual figure as she went braless in a blue vest teamed with pale grey joggers and chunky white trainers as she stepped out for a spot of fresh air.

Mum-to-be: Chloe Goodman was full of smiles as she clutches her growing baby bump while leaving her clinic Opiah Cosmetics in Hove on Sunday

Chloe wore her brunette tresses in a loose style, while her perfectly-applied make-up was no doubt the work of someone in her beauty salon.

The star, who announced her pregnancy with boyfriend Grant Hall last month, appeared to be in high spirits as she flashed a broad smile while taking some time out from the clinic.

It's a far cry from the tears she exhibited last month as she revealed her fears ahead of getting her cervix operation.

The reality star, spoke candidly about getting half her cervix removed, and advised fans to get checked to ensure they don't have problems during their pregnancy.

Oh baby! The Celebrity Big Brother star, 26, cut a casual figure as she went braless in a blue vest teamed with pale grey joggers and chunky white trainers as she stepped out for a spot of fresh air

Breaking down in tears in a video shared to her Instagram stories, Chloe said: 'As you all know, or most of you know, I had half my cervix removed last year which my surgeon did tell me would cause me to have problems with having a baby.

'Now even if you've just had the loop or even if you're just normally pregnant, you've got no previous thought for why your cervix is weak, or anything like that, when you get your three month scan do yourself a favour and ask them to measure your cervix.

'It's really important, an incompetent cervix risks the life of your baby which is what me and Grant are struggling with,' Chloe explained, as she began to tear-up. 'I wasn't going to cry when I came on here.'

Chloe continued: 'It's really important I go in tomorrow for my operation to have the surgical stitch, it's not 100 per cent but it helps prolong the pregnancy.

Emotional: Chloe broke down in tears as she said she's having an operation on her cervix to prolong pregnancy... and urged fans to also get checked

Bundle of joy: The reality star announced her pregnancy with her first child with boyfriend of two years Grant Halllast month

'It's really important that anyone who is pregnant to check your cervix, check it's long enough and it's healthy, and you're not going to have any problems during your pregnancy.

'I've had so many women speak to me on here who have had either the loop or had things with their cervix, and they've all gone through c**p with their pregnancy, or lost children which is just awful, and its all preventable with the stitch.'

'So please make them check your cervix, they don't do it you have to make them,' she concluded.

In a separate written statement also shared to her Instagram stories, Chloe claimed she and boyfriend Grant would be postponing their gender reveal.

Honest: Breaking down in tears in her Instagram stories, Chloe said 'An incompetent cervix risks the life of your baby which is what me and Grant are struggling with'

Advice: Chloe urged her fans, 'when you get your three month scan do yourself a favour and ask them to measure your cervix'

Keen to prompt fans to get checked, she said: 'A weak or shortened cervix will put pregnant women at risk for a premature birth I have my operation tomorrow for the cervical stitch it's to prolong my pregnancy beyond viability.

'Even if you have no previous history problems with your cervix you can still be born with a weak or shortened cervix please at your 12 weeks scan ask them to measure your cervix.

'It literally takes 2 minutes and can prevent premature birth and can stop you from losing your baby which is 100 per cent preventable.'

She went on: 'Because of the uphill struggle me and @hally_91 now face we are postponing our gender reveal as the most important thing is giving our baby the best chance.'

Raising awareness: Keen to prompt fans to get checked, she said: 'Even if you have no previous history problems with your cervix, you can still be born with a weak or shortened cervix'

Private: In a separate written statement also shared to her Instagram stories, Chloe claimed she and boyfriend Grant would be postponing their gender reveal

WHAT IS A CERVICAL STITCH? A possible cause of giving birth early is because the cervix shortens and opens too soon. A cervical stitch may help to prevent this. It's placed around the cervix - the neck of the womb - usually between 12 and 24 weeks of pregnancy, although occasionally it may be done at later stages in pregnancy. Babies born earlier than the 37 completed weeks of pregnancy have an increased risk of short and long term health problems. Sometimes a cervical stitch is not advised because it may carry risks to you and it would not improve the outcome for the baby. This may be if there are signs of infection, vaginal bleeding, the woman is having contractions or the waters are already broken. There is no definite evidence to show that a cervical stitch will prevent an early labour if the mother is carrying more than one baby. Source: Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists

While announcing her pregnancy with the Queens Park Rangers defender, 27, in November, Chloe said she has 'wanted to be a mum for years'.

In September, Chloe revealed she had accelerated her baby plans after suffering a cancer scare following a routine smear test last year, and she is now thrilled 'everything has fallen into place'.

Revealing the happy news in an interview with Closer magazine, she said: 'I've wanted to be a mum for years. I'm from a family of five girls and I've always had maternal instincts.

'When I met Grant, we agreed early on that we wanted to become parents, so it feels like everything has fallen into place.'

Chloe revealed to the publication her boobs are now 'ginormous' and said her appetite has soared since finding out she was expecting.

Earlier this year, Chloe opened up to MailOnline about going through a cancer scare following a routine smear test, leaving her thinking about having children with Grant earlier than planned.

She had her first cervical screening when she turned 25 last year, but soon realised something was wrong when doctors called her up the next day.

Health scare: In September, Chloe revealed she had accelerated her baby plans after suffering a cancer scare following a routine smear test last year (pictured in May)

Chloe admitted that her anxiety went from 'zero to 100' after thinking her smear test would come back normal and suddenly realised it was a 'little more serious'.

Taking about the experience, she said: 'I'm a super strong person, I've dealt with a miscarriage, I gave birth to a dead baby, which was horrendous.

'I've dealt with getting engaged and three months later breaking up, I've dealt with a huge heap of s**t. At that moment when I passed out, I just knew I needed to get rid of whatever was bad, I could feel it.

At the time, Chloe brought forward her baby plans and praised her sportsman boyfriend for being so supportive during her health scare.

She told MailOnline: 'It's a difficult one, Grant's contract at QPR finishes in the summer next year, so do I either get pregnant in the summer this year and then he's there for the birth?

'Or we try next year, but he may have moved clubs or football teams - then I'm pregnant without him.

'Grant was so patient and good. He said, "If we need to have a baby now, I will, I will give you a baby!"'

Chloe has long-tried to forge a career in TV, after a stint on EOTB's inaugural series in 2014, before returning in 2016 fifth season, while also appearing in CBB in 2015.