Dynamo looked happy and healthy amid his battle with Crohn's disease as he made a rare appearance with his wife Kelly Frayne during his belated 37th birthday celebrations in London on Saturday evening.

The magician appeared in great spirits as he rang in his milestone at Marylebone's Chiltern Firehouse with his stunning partner.

Dynamo - real name Steven Frayne - enjoyed some downtime ahead of his return to TV following a five-year absence to focus on his health.

Date night: Dynamo made a rare appearance with his wife Kelly Frayne during his belated 37th birthday celebrations in London on Saturday evening

Cutting a sharp figure, the illusionist wrapped up in a navy and leather jacket, teamed with skinny jeans and suede brown boots.

Bradford native Kelly - who is believed to have been married to Dynamo for over six years - caught the eye in a leopard print longline coat and styled her quirky grey tresses into glamorous waves.

The media personality - who turned 37 on Tuesday - is expected to make a return to TV with a jaw-dropping three part special, Beyond Belief, for Sky One and NOW TV, in the new year.

In good spirits: The magician - real name Steven Frayne - looked happy and healthy amid his battle with Crohn's disease, which he was first diagnosed with aged 14

The Sky original will take viewers on a journey across the globe to watch Dynamo perform close-up miracles, impossible predictions and unbelievable feats of magic that will have a lasting effect both on him and the people he interacts with.

On his upcoming stint, the TV star said in August: 'This show has been a passion project of mine for almost 3 years and represents a whole new approach to the genre.

'I believe that now more than ever people need a sense of magic in their lives so I can’t wait for everyone to see what I’ve been working on.'

During his last TV appearance in April 2018, he revealed his career was put on hold due to his crippling arthritis.

He vowed to make a comeback to magic during an appearance on Good Morning Britain, while explaining that he has been focusing his time and energy into charity projects while he recovers.

Speaking ahead of a trip to Brussels to discuss with world leaders how to help Syrian refugees, Dynamo told hosts Piers Morgan and Susanna Reid that it wasn't the end for him.

Taking time out of the spotlight: The illusionist has kept a low profile in recent times while focusing on his health

He said: 'You have to be able to adapt. That’s kind of, doing all these new things, travelling to these new places, given me inspiration making me look at things a bit differently.

'If these Syrian children can survive in the conditions they survive in, there’s no problem, I’m going to come back and do some magic.'

The magician, 35, has been suffering with the disease since the age of 14 but a recent bout was brought on when he was admitted to hospital with food poisoning in 2017.