Trainer Paul Nicholls says gaining the trust of Cyrname has been key to transforming the Ladbrokes King George V Chase joint favourite from untrainable tearaway to potential steeplechasing superstar.

A year ago the seven-year-old was blowing any talent he had by running uncontrollably on the home gallops and in his races.

But a change of training routine and greater maturity has transformed him from an equine Dr Jekyll into a permanent Mr Hyde.

Cyrname enters the King George V Chase on Boxing Day as a joint favourite on a splendid run

The transformed seven-year-old saw off Altior to win the 1965 Chase at Ascot on November 23

The highest-rated chaser in Britain has overcome his inconsistencies in form over the past year

Cyrname has won his last three races with performances which have earned him the mantle of the highest rated steeplechaser in Britain and Ireland. On his latest run, in last month's 1965 Chase at Ascot, he ended the unbeaten jumping record of Nicky Henderson's champion Altior.

Nicholls said: 'Cyrname would just bolt and you could never stop him. In his early days racing, he would be free to the start and then race flat out on one breath. We changed his routine, he took to it and has never looked back.

'It's like having two different horses mentally and physically. It just took a while to learn how to get the best out of him and what we needed to do to get him to settle and do the job right.

'He is not a quirky horse. In fact, he will run till he drops. I think as a young horse somewhere along the line he had had a tough time.

'He was very nervous, almost frightened of people. Now he is almost the complete opposite and has become your best mate.

'Because he has got trust in us and what we do we with him he is relaxed and enjoys life instead of being terrified about everything he did. It was almost like before he was running away from us.'

Cyrname will be racing for the first time at three miles and must prove he has the stamina but Nicholls says he has no doubts ahead of a race he has made his own with a record 10 wins.

The first of them came via the Andrew Thornton-ridden See More Business in 1997 while a race-best five were down to legendary Kauto Star.

Nicholls added: 'It's been an amazing race for us. It's a race I like targeting and a race I like preparing the horses to be at their very best for at this time of the season.

'The first one with See More Business was brilliant because it was my first really big winner. I will never forget that. But without a doubt the best one by mile was when Kauto Star won his fifth.

'Everything about that day - the crowd, the reception - was amazing. It was one of my best days racing.

'Kauto Star had loads of boot that suits Kempton very well. I have never compared Cyrname with Kauto Star and you never would do but he is not unlike him in that he is French and he is a sharp type of horse which suits Kempton.'

Cyrname is 13-8 joint favourite with Colin Tizzard-trained Lostintranslation for the Festive racing feature at Kempton on Boxing Day.

He will be ridden by Nicholls' stable jockey Harry Cobden, who was successful in last year's King George on Clan Des Obeaux. The mount on that gelding, who is part owned by Sir Alex Ferguson goes to Sam Twiston-Davies,

PAUL NICHOLLS' KING GEORGE WINNERS 1997 See More Business 1999 See More Business 2006 Kauto Star 2007 Kauto Star 2008 Kauto Star 2009 Kauto Star 2011 Kauto Star 2013 Silviniaco Conti 2014 Silviniaco Conti 2018 Clan Des Obeaux

Twelve months ago, Cobden chose to ride Clan Des Obeaux even though stablemate and ultimate fourth Politologue was a lot shorter in the betting.

Nicholls acknowledges it was always likely Cobden would ride Cyrname but insists Clan Des Obeaux, who was second to Road To Respect in the Ladbrokes Champion Chase at Down Royal in Northern Ireland on his comeback run at the beginning of November, is still a big player.

Nicholls added: 'It's a difficult situation (for Harry) because he is close to all the horses and the owners. He doesn't want to feel like he is letting anyone down.

'He's gone with Cyrname but Clan Des Obeaux is in good shape and is last year's winner. Kempton is a bit of a specialist track and does suit Clan Des Obeaux.

'He is well and I think he has improved. He is only seven-years-old and he is stronger than last year. He worked great on Saturday morning and is in great shape.

'Sam has won on him twice and schooled him on Thursday morning. He knows him well.'