LONDON (AP) - Britain's Queen Elizabeth II attended church near her country estate while her husband of 72 years, Prince Philip, remained in a London hospital Sunday.

Palace officials have not provided an update on the 98-year-old prince's condition following the announcement Friday that he was being admitted to King Edward VII Hospital as a precaution due to a preexisting condition.

It is not clear if Philip will be released in time to join the rest of the royal family for Christmas at Sandringham, the queen's country estate in Norfolk.

The queen has not altered her holiday routine and went to church Sunday as normal. The royal family is expected to attend another service on Christmas morning.

Buckingham Palace released a special holiday photo showing the queen making Christmas desserts with her son, Prince Charles, her grandson Prince William and her great-grandson Prince George.

The three princes are, respectively, the first, second and third in line for the British throne.

In this undated photo provided by Buckingham Palace, Britain's Queen Elizabeth, Prince Charles, Prince William and Prince George smile as they prepare special Christmas puddings in the Music Room at Buckingham Palace, London, as part of the launch of The Royal British Legion's Together at Christmas initiative. (Chris Jackson/Buckingham Palace via AP)

In this undated photo provided by Buckingham Palace, Britain's Queen Elizabeth, Prince Charles, Prince William and Prince George smile as they prepare special Christmas puddings in the Music Room at Buckingham Palace, London, as part of the launch of The Royal British Legion's Together at Christmas initiative. (Chris Jackson/Buckingham Palace via AP)

In this undated photo provided by Buckingham Palace, Britain's Queen Elizabeth, Prince Charles, Prince William and Prince George, alongside, from left, veterans Liam Young, Colin Hughes, Alex Cavaliere, Barbra Hurman and Lisa Evans, in the Music Room at Buckingham Palace, London, as part of the launch of The Royal British Legion's Together at Christmas initiative. (Chris Jackson/Buckingham Palace via AP)

Police and hospital personnel outside King Edward VII's Hospital, in London, Friday, Dec. 20, 2019. Prince Philip, husband of Queen Elizabeth II, has been admitted to a London hospital "as a precautionary measure," Buckingham Palace said Friday. The palace said in a statement the 98-year-old Philip was admitted to the King Edward VII hospital for observation and treatment of a pre-existing condition. (Victoria Jones/PA via AP)