BAGHDAD (AP) - Thousands of protesters poured into the streets of Baghdad and Iraq's southern provinces Sunday, rejecting a nominee for the post of prime minister who some say is too close to Iran.

The demonstrations comes ahead a Sunday midnight deadline for naming an interim prime minister, with no apparent solution in sight.

The protesters closed roads in southern provinces, including oil-rich Basra, saying they won't accept the nomination of the outgoing higher education minister, Qusay al-Suhail.

Iraq's leaderless uprising has roiled the country since Oct. 1, with at least 400 people killed in the violence. Thousands of protesters have taken to the streets in Baghdad and the predominantly Shiite south to decry corruption, poor services and a lack of jobs, while also calling for an end to the political system imposed after the 2003 U.S.-led invasion.

Pressure from the demonstrations led Prime Minister Adil Abdul-Mahdi to resign late last month, after Iraq's most powerful religious authority, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, withdrew support for Abdul-Mahdi's government.

On Friday, al-Sistani, in his weekly sermon delivered by a representative, called for political blocs to form the government quickly. The Iran-born al-Sistani said that the new prime minister should be accepted by the public.

In this Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019 photo, a poster with a defaced photo of Qusay al-Suhail, a candidate for the prime minister's post, and Arabic that reads, "one of the leaders of the destruction," is lying on the ground in Tahrir Square, Baghdad, Iraq. Thousands of protesters poured into the streets of Baghdad and Iraq's southern provinces on Sunday, rejecting the nomination of what some call an Iran-backed candidate for the prime minister's post. The demonstrations came as a midnight deadline loomed without a solution being reached to name an interim premier. (AP Photo/Khalid Mohammed)

Iraq's constitution requires that the parliament's largest bloc name a candidate for the premiership within 15 days of accepting the prime minister's resignation. That deadline expired last Thursday, but was extended until midnight Sunday.

The political deadlock has been worsened by a dispute over which bloc is actually the largest in parliament. The numbers have continued to change since last year's elections, with an unknown number of lawmakers leaving some blocs and joining others.

The Federal Supreme Court provided guidance in a statement Saturday, but stopped short of naming the largest bloc. It said the decision should be based on parliament's first session after taking office last year. But the court also said it would accept if two or more lists had merged to become the largest bloc in that session.

Two Iraqi officials said President Barham Saleh sent the court's response to parliament, asking the legislature to say which is the largest bloc. The officials spoke on condition of anonymity in line with regulations.

There are currently two main blocs in Iraq's parliament: Sairoon, led by populist Shiite cleric Moqtada al-Sadr, and Fatah, which includes leaders associated with the paramilitary Popular Mobilization Units, headed by Hadi al-Amiri.

Al-Suheil was nominated for prime minister by Fatah and their allies.Sairoon is insisting that the candidate be selected by the anti-government protesters on the street. Anti-government protesters are calling for snap elections and a reformed electoral law that would give them greater say in how lawmakers are elected. They consider the current draft being considered by Parliament to be inadequate.

In the northern town of Beiji, members of the Islamic State group attacked Saturday night a police force protecting the oil refinery killing for policemen, according to military statement. It added that policemen killed one attacker who was wearing an explosive belt.

Anti-government protesters gather in Tahrir Square in Baghdad, Iraq, Sunday, Dec. 22, 2019. Thousands of protesters poured into the streets of Baghdad and Iraq's southern provinces on Sunday, rejecting the nomination of what some call an Iran-backed candidate for the prime minister's post. The demonstrations came as a midnight deadline loomed without a solution being reached to name an interim premier. (AP Photo/Khalid Mohammed)

Anti-government protesters gather at Tahrir Square in Baghdad, Iraq, Sunday, Dec. 22, 2019. Thousands of protesters poured into the streets of Baghdad and Iraq's southern provinces on Sunday, rejecting the nomination of what some call an Iran-backed candidate for the prime minister's post. The demonstrations came as a midnight deadline loomed without a solution being reached to name an interim premier. (AP Photo/Khalid Mohammed)

Anti-government protesters gather in Tahrir Square in Baghdad, Iraq, Sunday, Dec. 22, 2019. Thousands of protesters poured into the streets of Baghdad and Iraq's southern provinces on Sunday, rejecting the nomination of what some call an Iran-backed candidate for the prime minister's post. The demonstrations came as a midnight deadline loomed without a solution being reached to name an interim premier. (AP Photo/Khalid Mohammed)

Anti-government protesters gather at Tahrir Square in Baghdad, Iraq, Sunday, Dec. 22, 2019. Thousands of protesters poured into the streets of Baghdad and Iraq's southern provinces on Sunday, rejecting the nomination of what some call an Iran-backed candidate for the prime minister's post. The demonstrations came as a midnight deadline loomed without a solution being reached to name an interim premier. (AP Photo/Khalid Mohammed)

A protester passes posters showing Lt. Gen. Abdul-Wahab al-Saadi, the former commander of the country's elite counterterrorism forces whose dismissal sparked protests in November, with Arabic that reads "By the will of the people, you will be prime minister" in Tahrir Square, Baghdad, Iraq, Sunday, Dec. 22, 2019. Thousands of protesters poured into the streets of Baghdad and Iraq's southern provinces on Sunday, rejecting the nomination of what some call an Iran-backed candidate for the prime minister's post. The demonstrations came as a midnight deadline loomed without a solution being reached to name an interim premier. (AP Photo/Khalid Mohammed)

Anti-government protesters stage a sit-in in Tahrir Square during ongoing protests in Baghdad, Iraq, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. (AP Photo/Khalid Mohammed)

Anti-government protesters gather in Tahrir Square, Baghdad, Iraq, Sunday, Dec. 22, 2019. Thousands of protesters poured into the streets of Baghdad and Iraq's southern provinces on Sunday, rejecting the nomination of what some call an Iran-backed candidate for the prime minister's post. The demonstrations came as a midnight deadline loomed without a solution being reached to name an interim premier. (AP Photo/Khalid Mohammed)