A toddler has been left unable to open his Christmas presents after a 'faulty' Shark vacuum cleaner 'ate' his thumb - leaving him with severe burns on his hand and 'rotting flesh'.

Finley Black, who is 18 months old, was treated for serious friction burns after the cleaner ripped several layers of skin off his left thumb earlier this month at home in Harwich, Essex.

His mother Alex Lofts turned her back for a few seconds to vacuum a cupboard when Finley snuck up behind her and got his thumb trapped inside the machine where the brushes spin round.

Finley Black, (pictured with his mother Alex Lofts, 30) who is 18 months old, was treated for serious friction burns

The cleaner ripped several layers of skin off his left thumb earlier this month at home in Harwich, Essex

The horrified mum-of-three managed to drag the tot's hand out after it was 'chewed' by the machine at 8am and raced him to hospital where the wound was thoroughly cleaned and dressed.

Finley's wound smelled of 'rotting flesh' but he has had regular check-ups and is now waiting for the wound to slowly heal.

However he is unlikely to be out of bandages by Christmas.

The £174 machine (pictured), bought online last year, is believed to be faulty by Alex

Alex, 30, is now urging people to check their vacuum cleaners are working properly and be vigilant of hidden dangers to ensure no one else goes through what Finley has.

The £174 machine, bought online last year, is believed to be faulty by Alex, who says the brushes continue spinning when the cleaner hose attachment is being used and when it is in an upright, not tilted, position.

Shark said they were concerned to hear of the incident and will investigate the unit.

Alex, from Harwich, Essex, said: 'I vacuum daily, if not twice daily, I'm a bit obsessive.

'I vacuum in the morning but nine times out of ten by tea time it's destroyed so you start the whole process again.

'I vacuum a million times with him in the room and he's never touched it and on that day he was quite happily eating his breakfast while watching TV in the lounge.

'Doing the cupboard was only going to take two minutes so I took the hose out to do the skirting bits.

The horrified mum-of-three (left) managed to drag the tot's hand out after it was 'chewed' by the machine

Finley with his thumb bandaged up after the accident. His mother is worried he won't be able to open his own Christmas presents

'Seconds later I heard him scream and when I turned around I realised he'd touched the bottom of the cleaner.

'I couldn't get his hand out until I switched it off then ran to the bathroom with him in my arms to put his hand into a sink of cold water.

'He was absolutely hysterical as I put a special burns dressing on the wound and got him in the car to take him to the nearby minor injuries unit.

'It took just six minutes to get there, but it felt like forever.'

At the Minor Injuries Unit at Fryatt Hospital in Harwich, staff cleaned and dressed the wound and gave Alex additional dressings to take home.

Alex and her 34-year-old plumber partner Christopher Black were told that as the wound was 'wet' it was important to keep the injury site clean and dry to prevent infection.

Alex, who is also a mother to Bailey Larter, 12 (right), and 11-year-old Riley Larter (left), said tasks such as getting Finley (centre) dressed and fed are trickier now

Finley's wound smelled of 'rotting flesh' but he has had regular check-ups and is now waiting for the wound to slowly heal.

Alex said: 'Friction burns rip away layers of skin so underneath is very raw and tender - these kinds of burns are quite wet and soggy wounds so it takes quite a while to heal.

'On the Sunday after the accident it absolutely stunk, it was vile, I've never smelt a smell like it.

At the Minor Injuries Unit at Fryatt Hospital in Harwich, staff cleaned and dressed the wound and gave Alex additional dressings to take home

'When I picked him up out of his cot, from where he'd had his arms around my neck on my dressing gown, I smelled of the wound.

'It was awful - it was a stomach-churning smell that I imagine was rotting flesh.

'I had to put my dressing gown in the wash and scrub myself in the shower but I could still smell it all day.

'I was convinced the wound was infected, but the nurse said it was common because the wound was so wet.'

Alex contacted Shark head office to lodge a complaint about the alleged malfunctioning machine and wrote a Facebook post to warn other parents and carers about what happened.

Her post reads: 'I'm not blaming anyone or saying all hoovers are faulty.......I've spoken directly to Shark who have informed me about my model given all the details and numbers from my model, saying my brush SHOULDN'T be spinning.

'Yes I should have eyes in my arse but sadly didn't take that upgrade when becoming a parent.

'Warning to any mums out there who have a Shark hoover. I've had mine for 12 months always thought it was great, in fact best one I've ever had. Until it basically chewed up my sons hand!!!!

'I always found it a bit rough with the brush roller bit, but kinda thought that's why it's so powerful.

'Anyway fast forward 12 months of using my Shark and I was hoovering out a cupboard with the nozzle bit when my son came up behind and touched the bottom bit, the brush roller was still going round and it took his hand up onto the base!!!

The wound (pictured) needs to be kept clean and dry to help the healing process

'I've spoken to Shark who said the brush roller should not be spinning unless it's all assembled, reclined back and being used.

'If the hose is off being used or the vacuum is upright they shouldn't be going round, so mine's faulty.

'Check yours if you have one or any other for that matter.'

Alex, who is also a mother to Bailey Larter, 12, and 11-year-old Riley Larter, said tasks such as getting Finley dressed and fed are trickier now due to his injury, which needs to be kept clean and dry to help the healing process.

Alex said: 'Friction burns rip away layers of skin so underneath is very raw and tender.' Finley is pictured with his bandages on after the incident

Alex said: 'Finley's fine in himself, he'll live to tell the tale, but he's very clingy and things are awkward for him because his whole hand is bandaged to just above the wrist bone.

'You've got to dress him without touching his thumb and trying to get his arms through sleeves now is quite an operation in the morning.

'I also have to spoon feed him to make sure his hand is kept clean, which he doesn't like.

'It's a case of having to wait for it to heal and it's looking like he'll have the bandages on at Christmas.

Alex and her 34-year-old plumber partner Christopher Black (right) were told that as the wound was 'wet' it was important to keep the injury site clean and dry to prevent infection

'I'm thinking about the little things such as how he's going to open his presents and eat his Christmas dinner and chocolates.

'Obviously it's fine us helping him, it's just he won't have that independence of doing it himself.

'I would rather the burn be covered and healthy than have it off because it's not convenient for our Christmas Day and it get infected.'

Alex is now urging parents and grandparents to check their appliances are working properly and be vigilant around the home with young children.

Alex said: 'This all happened in a split second and I feel so guilty that he really hurt his thumb.

'It's like a no-win situation - you turn your back to clean and something happens, but if you don't tidy up something could happen because your house is a bomb site.

'I didn't know it was a faulty cleaner and that the brushes weren't supposed to spin when the hose was being used - but how many people know this?

'It was only when I spoke to Shark that they confirmed it shouldn't be spinning when it's upright and not fully assembled.

The shark cleaner for sale on Amazon. The company have said that they will investigate the incident

'I could have been watching him more, but how many mums hoover their house every day with their children around?

'My son was really hurt and now I have this hoover that I'm a bit terrified of and I'm temporarily using the vacuum cleaner my partner uses for work.

'I absolutely loved the cleaner and I still do love Shark. I've had various other brands but I personally think Shark is the best - way before Mrs Hinch came along.

'Shark have said they will investigate. I'm hoping they'll take away the faulty one and give me a cleaner that works safely - not one that's going to eat children.'

A Shark spokesman said: 'We take product safety extremely seriously and are very concerned to hear of this incident.

'We will be working with the customer to have the unit returned so we can investigate her concerns. We are committed to providing high-quality products to our customers.'