The family of teenage motorcyclist Harry Dunn are to “retreat” and begin counselling over the festive period as they “look forward” to a meeting with the Prime Minister, their spokesman has said.

The 19-year-old’s parents are “suffering terribly” without their son at Christmas and do not feel like they are “entering into the holiday season”, spokesman Radd Seiger said.

After a “reassuring but emotional” meeting with Home Secretary Priti Patel on Sunday, Harry’s father Tim Dunn and mother Charlotte Charles wish to meet Boris Johnson to “seek assurance… face-to-face” that the Government will do everything it can to have the US suspect in the case returned to the UK.

The family of Harry Dunn (left to right) mother Charlotte Charles, stepfather Bruce Charles, family spokesman Radd Seiger, father Tim Dunn and stepmother Tracey Dunn (David Mirzoeff/PA)

Anne Sacoolas, 42, was charged with causing the teenager’s death by dangerous driving after Harry’s motorbike crashed into a car outside RAF Croughton in Northamptonshire on August 27.

Sacoolas claimed diplomatic immunity following the incident and returned to the US.

The family said they “look forward” to a meeting with Mr Johnson “as soon as one can be arranged”.

Speaking on behalf of the family, Mr Seiger told the PA news agency: “I would just like to reiterate again my thanks to Priti Patel and Andrea Leadsom for taking the time out of their busy schedules to meet the parents.

“It was a very reassuring but emotional meeting and we are satisfied that the extradition process will be dealt with in accordance with the rule of law.

“Beyond that, they graciously conceded that communication with the parents was not what it should have been following Harry’s tragic loss and they said they would work with us to improve the process following a bereavement such as this, for the benefit of unfortunate families to follow.”

Home Secretary Priti Patel after a meeting with the family of Harry Dunn in north Oxfordshire (Joe Gammie/PA)

Mr Seiger said the family were convinced and have no doubt that the suspect will be extradited.

Addressing what the family are looking to achieve in the near future, Mr Seiger said: “We also very much look forward to meeting with Boris Johnson as soon as that can be arranged.

“I know it will be a source of considerable comfort to the family to meet with him and to seek his assurance face-to-face that everything possible will be done to have Anne Sacoolas return to the UK to seek justice as she must do.

“The statements coming from her lawyer and the State Department over the weekend are not worthy of them.

“The only egregious abuse here was removing Mrs Sacoolas from the country and it is totally disingenuous and just another example of how this administration seeks to gaslight.”

Harry Dunn´s mother Charlotte Charles (David Mirzoeff/PA)

Speaking about how Harry’s family will cope with their first Christmas without him, Mr Seiger told PA: “We are not entering into the holiday season. The parents and the whole family are suffering terribly at the prospect of Christmas without Harry.

“It is time for them to retreat for a while, begin counselling and grieving properly, and start the long and painful road towards rebuilding their shattered lives.

“Team Harry on the other hand will not rest until Mrs Sacoolas is back in the UK facing the justice system.”