Eyal Booker recently revealed his plans to move into girlfriend Delilah Belle Hamlin's home with her Real Housewives of Beverley Hills mother, Lisa Rinna.

And the Love Island UK star and his model partner were enjoying a romantic winter break ahead of the big move, taking a trip to Bear Mountain resort in Southern California over the weekend.

The couple were taking their winter sports seriously, looking the pictured of concentration as they rode up to the top of the slopes on a chair lift.

Ski break: Eyal Booker and his girlfriend Delilah Belle Hamlin were taking a trip to Bear Mountain resort in Southern California over the weekend

Eyal, 24, was clad in green ski pants and a graffiti embellished hoodie, showcasing his snowboarding skills.

Delilah, 21, opted for an all-black skiing ensemble, managing to look super glamorous despite the freezing temperatures.

The brunette beauty paired a poloneck with matching trousers and a pair of white ski boots, accessorising with a pair of half moon shades.

Love Islander, 24, said he is ready to take the next leap in their long-distance romance as he prepares to spend Christmas with the family.

Snow bunny: Delilah, 21, opted for an all-black skiing ensemble, managing to look super glamorous despite the freezing temperatures

Eyal told The Sun: 'We are currently doing a long distance relationship but the longest we have gone without seeing each other for the last few months is just two weeks.

'We know that's not sustainable forever though, so I think in the New Year we will have to work out what we are going to do permanently moving forward.'

'I am more than happy to move to LA... it feels like I've found the one.'

Eyal added he has already met Delilah's parents Lisa and Harry Hamlin who have 'given him their seal of approval'.

Boarding: Eyal, 24, was clad in green ski pants and a graffiti embellished hoodie, showcasing his snowboarding skills

'She's The One': Eyal recently revealed his plans to move in with RHOBH star Lisa Rinna as his relationship with her daughter Delilah heats up

The reality star and Delilah were first romantically linked when they cosied up together at Coachella Festival in April.

Eyal revealed the pair enjoyed a secret date in March after the model DM'd him to let him know she was flying to London.

The hopeless romantic told the publication it was 'love at first sight' and he chased her 'halfway around the world'.

Eyal rose to fame on the 2018 series of Love Island before appearing on Celebs Go Dating, but the yoga-loving model struggled to find a girl who was 'deep' enough for him.