This is the first picture of a schoolboy who was hit and killed by an Audi TT as he walked with friends along a country lane on Saturday.

Max Simmons, 13, was hit by the red sports car in Maidenhead yesterday afternoon and died in hospital in Slough a short time later.

Today his friends described him as 'a child that was full of life', adding the teenager 'will be missed and was loved by all'.

Police said this afternoon 34-year-old James Lavine has been charged with causing death by dangerous driving.

Max Simmons (pictured), 13, was hit and killed by an Audi TT as he walked with friends along a country lane on Saturday

Lavine, of Wooburn Green, Buckinghamshire, will appear before Slough magistrates tomorrow for an initial hearing.

Friends recalled how Max 'loved his computer games' as they paid tribute a day after he died at Wexham Park Hospital.

'He was a child that was full of life and loved his computer games. He will be missed and was loved by all,' said one.

Addressing the family, another friend said: 'My heart goes out to you.

Friends recalled how Max (pictured) 'loved his computer games' as they paid tribute a day after he died at Wexham Park Hospital

'To lose a child is unbearable at any time, but just before Christmas is beyond cruel.I hope you have love and support around you at this time.'

It is understood Max was walking with friends when he was hit by the car shortly before 1.30pm on Saturday.

A post mortem will be carried out on his body to pinpoint the exact cause of death.

An inquest is expected to be opened and adjourned by Berkshire coroner Heidi Connor in the New Year.

A 13-year-old schoolboy has died after being hit by a driver while he was walking along Switchback Road North, Maidenhead, yesterday. The road is pictured above

Police have issued an appeal for anyone who saw the crash to come forward, after the boy died four days before Christmas.

Investigating officer, Police constable Joy Jarvis of the Serious Collision Investigation Unit, said: 'I am urging anyone with any information about the collision to make contact with Thames Valley Police as soon as possible.

'I would particularly like to hear from anyone who witnessed the collision, saw the pedestrian or vehicle before the incident, or has any dash-cam footage.

'If you have any information please leave it on our website or call 101.'