Caroline Flack is reportedly set to unwind on a of luxurious retreat after stepping down from her Love Island hosting job earlier in the week.

The presenter, 40 - who was charged with assaulting her boyfriend, Lewis Burton, 27, after an altercation at her home - is said to be keen on reducing her stress as insiders claim she has reached her 'breaking point'.

A source revealed: 'She's considering a couple of luxury retreats — including the Cabin Chiang Mai in Thailand where loads of celebrities go to recuperate for stress-related issues.'

De-stress: Caroline Flack (pictured last month) is reportedly set to unwind on a of luxurious retreat after stepping down from her Love Island hosting job earlier in the week

The media personality broke her silence earlier in the week as she revealed she won't be fronting the winter edition of the ITV2 dating series in January, with her pal Laura Whitmore standing in as her replacement.

On how she's coped with the past week, an insider told The Sun: 'Caroline has had the toughest, roughest week of her life. She’s been in tears solidly, and really is at breaking point.

'Her friends and family have been utter rocks, and she’s had loads of public support — it’s this which has got her through. Caroline is looking forward to resuming her career in the summer, healthier, happier and brighter than ever before.'

A representative for Caroline declined to comment when approached by MailOnline.

Getaway: 'She's considering a couple of luxury retreats where loads of celebrities go to recuperate for stress-related issues', a source revealed (Koh Tao Thailand pictured in 2017)

Unwind: The presenter, 40, is said to be keen on reducing her stress as insiders claim she has reached her 'breaking point'

Drama: The host was charged with assaulting her boyfriend, Lewis Burton, 27, after an altercation at her home (pictured in October)

Exciting times ahead: Her pal Laura Whitmore will stand in as her replacement on the show, as well as the dating series' spin-off, Aftersun

The blonde told her social media followers on Tuesday: 'There have been a significant number of media reports and allegations in regard to my personal life.

'While matters were not as have been reported I am committed to co-operating with the appropriate authorities and I can't comment further on these matters until the legal process is over.

'However Love Island has been my world for the last five years, it's the best show on telly. In order not to detract attention from the upcoming series I feel the best thing I can do is stand down from Series 6.

'I want to wish the incredible team working on the show a fantastic series in Cape Town.'

Tough: On how she's coped with the past week, an insider said: 'Caroline has had the toughest, roughest week of her life'

Caroline continued: 'And on a really personal level. I have never experienced such kindness and love in my whole life.

'Not just from friends and family who are always the greatest but also from total strangers who send messages to me offering help and understanding... Please know that I see them and my boyfriend Lewis. I love you x.'

An ITV spokesperson told MailOnline shortly after her post: 'ITV has a long standing relationship with Caroline and we understand and accept her decision.

'We will remain in contact with her over the coming months about future series of Love Island.'

Taking time out: Caroline broke her silence on Instagram over leaving her £1.2million a year job

The former X Factor host is expected to appear on bail at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court on Monday, December 23.

On Sunday, new Love Island host Laura, 34, spoke on her 5 Live radio show about her 'new job'.

'I've got a new job!' she said on the air, as she played the show's theme tune, which she admitted 'excites' her now, but will likely cause her to feel 'terror' closer to the show's transmission.

'I am in disbelief and shock': On Sunday, new Love Island host Laura, 34, spoke on her 5 Live radio show about her 'new job'

'It starts very very soon,' the E4 star went on. 'I am in disbelief and shock. It doesn't affect this radio show too much.

'I will be flying back and forth from South Africa, hosting [spin-off show] Aftersun on a Monday, live from London, and then doing this radio show on Sundays.

'I want to say a big thank you to everyone who has messaged me. It's kind of a dream come true but I wish it was under better circumstances.'

Laura, who is the girlfriend of Love Island's voiceover provider Iain Stirling, 31, will take the reins from Caroline, who is only thought to be sitting out for the one series - which will be set in Cape Town across January and February.

Laura arrived at the BBC to present her radio show looking pleased with herself as she strutted into the central London studios, wrapped up against the Christmas chill.

She wore a slick black trench coat over tight leather trousers and chunky heeled boots.

She kept warm in a festive sweater with 'Love' emblazoned across the front - perhaps a nod to her new presenting gig.

The Irish beauty added grey earmuffs and carried a leopard print bag over her shoulder, also clutching a bottle of wine in a festive bag - presumably a Christmas gift for someone at the office.

Reports: The Irish beauty will host ITV's AfterSun spin-off series with her boyfriend, 31, (pictured in August)

She styled her honeyed locks in waves around her features, which were highlighted with a dewy slick of make-up and a bright red pop to her pout.

Laura thanked fans for their support with a lengthy Instagram post on Saturday. She penned: 'So the last 24hrs have been a bit crazy! Thank you for all the messages. 2020 is going to be a good year.'

No doubt Laura, who has a squeaky clean image, was a safe choice for ITV who won't want to take any risks with who they hire in Caroline's place.

On Tuesday, it was first reported that Laura met with bosses in secret to discuss the possibility of the role, following Caroline's decision to quit.

Laura is no stranger to presenting a Love Island-esque reality show for ITV, as she presented Survival Of The Fittest in January 2018.