Thirteen people were shot and wounded, four of them critically, in a mass shooting at a large memorial gathering early Sunday in Chicago's South Side.

The event was to honor the birthday of gunshot victim Lonell Irvin, a 22-year-old man who was killed in April during a carjacking attempt.

Cops described two shooters on the scene who seemed to fire at random.

A shooter opened fire after a dispute at the party just after 12.30am at the home located on the 5700 block of South May Street in Chicago's Englewood neighborhood.

The injured victims range in age between 16 and 48, suffering 'different and various gunshot wounds to their bodies', police said.

Thirteen people were shot and wounded, four of them critically, when shots rang out at a large memorial gathering on Sunday in Chicago's South Side

The memorial service took place at a home at the 5700 block of South May Street (above) in Chicago's Englewood neighborhood

A 16-year-old boy is one of the victims in critical condition.

Chicago police chief of patrol Fred Waller described three different shooting scenes and what appears to be two shooters.

Shots first fired inside the residence. Once people began to flee, a person was captured on a Chicago police pod camera firing more shots. Then a different shooter was seen shooting at a vehicle, Waller said.

The assailants appeared to be 'shooting randomly' as frightened party attendees ran out of the home.

Two people are currently being questioned by police for the shooting.

One of them was arrested with a weapon, Waller said, while the other was wounded. Waller said police recovered a revolver.

The gathering was to honor the birthday of gunshot victim Lonell Irvin (left and right), 22-year-old man who was killed in April during a carjacking attempt

He described the shooting as an 'isolated incident' and not believed to be gang-related.

Some party attendees outside the shooting scene said the gunmen were not invited and had crashed the party.

'It was his birthday and they were just celebrating a memorial for somebody that passed away, and this is what they do,' a 29-year-old unnamed woman said to the Chicago Tribune.

'It’s real f**king sad. Your kids can’t grow up, you can’t do nothing. This is what our life is going to be about,' she added.

'It’s so real, that lack of caring for life,' Terence Daniely, a 57-year-old who lives near the shooting site, said, adding he woke up to the sound of at least five gunshots.

'It’s reckless, just reckless. How does it continually happen? When is it going to stop?'

Lonnell Irvin was shot dead when he was trying to carjack a 41-year-old man but got shot in the process on April 26.

The 41-year-old, a concealed carry license holder, drew his weapon after he was rear-ended and confronted by Irvin. Cops said the 41-year-old acted in self defense.