Georgia Toffolo has finally been released from immigration detention at Malé airport in the Maldives on Sunday.

Earlier in the day, the distressed star, 25, tearfully pleaded for help as she was banned from catching further flights due to a page falling out of her passport.

And after 'crying for nine hours', the media personality expressed her gratitude towards her fans and the British government for their support, and surprisingly revealed she even ended up 'having a laugh' with the immigration officers'.

In better spirits: Georgia Toffolo has finally been released from immigration detention at Malé airport in the Maldives on Sunday

Alongside a beaming snap of herself, the former Made In Chelsea star took to Instagram to detail how she'd been freed from the scary ordeal.

Georgia wrote: 'I am typing this having just been released from immigration detention! I can’t quite believe it. I was genuinely trying to come to terms with spending the next... however long... in an immigration detention centre.

'Thank you so much to everyone who helped me. If I hadn’t posted online I would 100% still be stuck without my passport!'

Insisting she wouldn't have been released if it wasn't for her social media presence, the petite star added: 'This scares me because it is such a privilege to have a following on social media - people can hear me.

Ordeal: Earlier in the day, the distressed star, 25, tearfully pleaded for help as she was banned from catching further flights due to a page falling out of her passport.

'What if I didn’t have a social media following? I can’t bear to think of another girl in the situation I found myself in where no one can hear you.'

Despite being detained for nearly half a day, the blonde still managed to thank the Maldivian government for allowing her to stay in the 'beautiful' country.

She elaborated: 'Extremely grateful that the British government worked with Maldivian representatives. Pushed by the UK press too (so epic thank you!) Also thank you to Maldivian immigration for letting me in to your beautiful country!

'In spite of me crying for 9 hours and scaring everyone at the airport, I made some lovely friends (the group of 7 airport guys that didn’t leave me while I was wailing) on reflection they couldn’t leave me, because I was being detained.

Thankful: The media personality expressed her gratitude towards her fans and the British government for their support

'But still they were kind. They ran me through the best bits of the potential prison I was almost spending Christmas in, every cloud etc!

'I even had a laugh with the immigration officers in the end. Oddly excited for the reunion when I leave.'

She ended her post by advising her followers: 'Please everyone check your passports I didn’t realise that 2 pages had fallen out of the centre. SO SO traumatised but grateful thank you thank you thank you. Toff’s Christmas is back on.

'On that note wonder what I would have got on Christmas Day in the detention centre? Trying to make light of it but it was a really horrible experience.'

Just hours earlier, she broke down in tears and frantically took to Twitter for some form of advice or help after her passport was confiscated from her ahead of a flight.

Cry for help: Just hours earlier, she broke down in tears and frantically took to Twitter for some form of advice or help after her passport was confiscated from her ahead of a flight

She tweeted: 'I have been detained at Malé airport for a page missing on my passport. I am very scared I don’t know what else to do!

'I have been here for hours. I am not allowed to board a flight home because of my damaged passport but I am also not allowed to leave the airport. Please help!'

She followed this up with: 'I have tried so hard to get hold of any British representative here. I am so upset. Thank god I’ve got my phone. They’ve taken away my passport... because a page had fallen out!'

At the time of tweeting, Toff had been at the airport for over four hours. She also took to her Instagram stories to document the situation, visibly tearful.

MailOnline approached the Foreign Commonwealth Office for comment at the time of publication.

After sharing a video being driven to the airport, the former I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! winner recorded an Instagram story in which she explained: 'Basically my passport was damaged and I am now being effectively deported back to London so any tips on how to get an emergency passport? Because I am not spending Christmas on my own.'

Distressed! 'I have been here for hours. I am not allowed to board a flight home because of my damaged passport but I am also not allowed to leave the airport. Please help!' she posted

She went on: 'I’ve been crying - how embarrassing. Any advice on trying to get an emergency passport tomorrow? How does it work? Do I have to book an appointment? The info online is so confusing!

'I’d be so grateful for any advice anyone’s got. I have planned a lovely Christmas here in the Maldives.Need to get there for Christmas Day basically. Let me know what I should do, absolute shocker.'

A little later, Toff appeared back on her stories and said: 'Thank you to everyone suggesting I go to the British Embassy. I wasn’t allowed to leave the airport in order to get to the British Embassy which isn’t even in the Maldives it’s in Colombo. Well maybe that is... but you know what I mean, it’s not close.'

Tearful: After sharing a video being driven to the airport, the former I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! winner recorded an Instagram story in which she explained - 'Basically my passport was damaged and I am now being effectively deported back to London so any tips on how to get an emergency passport? Because I am not spending Christmas on my own'

Helpful? Many suggested she get in touch with her pal Stanley Johnson, Prime Minister Boris' father

Clearly getting more and more upset, Toff then reappeared and said, fighting back tears: 'I’m really trying to hold it together but I have been here for hours and hours and hours. I’m not allowed to leave the airport on any flights because my passport is damaged but I am also not allowed to go into the Maldives.

'I don’t know what to do I am so upset. I have tried so hard to get in touch with any British representative, there is no one here. I just don’t know what to do.

'I’m looking at four days in the centre until the next flight willing to take me home. Can someone help me?'

And then: 'Oh my god, I have been crying for hours and hours. It’s a really horrible situation when you can’t go, but I can’t leave the airport. So I’m having to spend the night.'

She then appeared outside the terminal, where she explained: 'I am in the in the detention centre. I find it really horrible. I have asked to speak to a British consulate so many times and they’ve said no no no.

Detained: Clearly getting more and more upset, Toff then reappeared and said, fighting back tears - 'I’m really trying to hold it together but I have been here for hours and hours and hours. I’m not allowed to leave the airport on any flights because my passport is damaged but I am also not allowed to go into the Maldives'

'How is this legal?' She then appeared outside the terminal, where she explained - 'I am in the in the detention centre. I find it really horrible. I have asked to speak to a British consulate so many times and they’ve said no no no'

'And now I’m not allowed back in the departures terminal. It’s so bad I don’t know how this is even legal!'

Many of her fans suggested she get in touch with her close friend Stanley Johnson, father of the Prime Minister Boris.

Toff met Stanley when they took part in I'm A Celebrity... 2017, and have since appeared together on the likes of Made In Chelsea and Celebrity Hunted.

Others jokingly suggested she shout 'I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!' while various celeb pals weighed in including Nadia Essex and Sarah Locke, the mother of Toff's MIC co-star Ollie.

According to Gov.uk, a damaged passport cannot be used as proof of identification and can be classed as such if pages are even slightly detached.

She went on: 'Oh my god, I have been crying for hours and hours. It’s a really horrible situation when you can’t go, but I can’t leave the airport. So I’m having to spend the night'

'In the case of damaged passports, the rules are almost identical across the world, but the level of stringency varies,' a spokesperson from Qatar Airways told The Independent when one of their reporters suffered a similar issue. 'Damaged passports and pleading passengers have been used as cover for illegal entry and activity in some parts of the world. This is well known, so immigration and security staff are very aware of this as a potential ploy and security threat.

'Guidelines for assessing a damaged passport, meaning it isn’t in a condition to be accepted as proof of identity, may include ANY damage to the bio-data page.'

Airlines can be fined on average £2,780 per passenger if they allow a passenger with a damaged passport to fly and, if the issue is flagged at the destination, they would be responsible for flying them back again - even if this means booting one of their paying travelers out of their seat.

The International Air Transport Association states that approximately 60,000 passengers are turned back at destination or transfer points by immigration authorities each year.