A trial has heard disturbing details of how an Airbnb 'superhost' raped a young female guest while staying at his Melbourne CBD apartment.

Nicholas David Weston, 43, is in custody awaiting sentencing after he was convicted of four counts of rape.

The 19-year-old victim and a friend were visiting Melbourne in November 2017 and booked a four-night stay at Weston's apartment, which was $100 a night for the room, The Herald Sun reported.

The court heard the trio drank together before the girls decided to go out and explore the city's nightlife.

An Airbnb 'superhost' is behind bars after he was convicted of raping a guest two years ago

Weston told them to wake him when they returned to 'drink and keep partying' and threatened to post a bad review on Airbnb about them if they didn't.

They didn't wake him and were able to avoid their host until the following night.

Her friend and Weston headed out while the victim stayed in after falling ill from too much drinking and ended up being sick in the bed.

Weston later told the victim she could sleep in his bed and despite her refusal, was carried to his room where he took off her underwear and raped her.

The victim recalled the terrifying ordeal when she gave evidence at his trial.

'I couldn't really move, I couldn't put my head up,' she said. 'I kept saying ''please don't''. I kept sort of resisting him,' she told the County Court.

The victim and her friend were staying in Melbourne's Elizabeth Street (pictured) at the time

Weston claimed the pair had consensual sex and denied he had done anything wrong.

'This is bizarre, I'm an Airbnb host, I take my role very seriously,' he told the court.

Weston was remanded in custody and will return to court for a pre-sentencing hearing in January.

It's understood Weston rented out his spare bedroom to hundreds of guests in the three years he was a Airbnb host and was awarded 'superhost' status.

'Superhosts are experienced hosts who provide a shining example for other hosts, and extraordinary experiences for their guests,' the Airbnb website states.

'Once a host reaches Superhost status, a badge superhost badge will automatically appear on their listing and profile to help you identify them.

'We check Superhosts' activity four times a year, to ensure that the program highlights the people who are most dedicated to providing outstanding hospitality.'

Daily Mail Australia has contacted Airbnb for comment.