Carlo Ancelotti has targeted Champions League football with Everton, who he described as ‘one of the greatest clubs in England’.

Everton appointed Ancelotti as their new manager on Saturday and the 60-year-old Italian has signed a four-and-a-half-year contract.

‘I’m excited to be here at one of the greatest clubs in England,’ Ancelotti told Everton TV in his first interview at the club.

Carlo Ancelotti is targeting silverware with Everton after being appointed as their manager

Ancelotti outlined his ambitious plans in his first interview with the Goodison Park outfit

‘The goal is there to reach the Champions League or Europa League. Winning honours has to be the dream for this club and for the supporters. I am here to try to do this.’

Ancelotti won the Premier League and FA Cup double at Chelsea in 2010 and is one of only three managers to win the Champions League three times.

‘Our goal is to be competitive in the Premier League, to be towards the top of the table, to be competitive in Europe,’ Ancelotti added.

‘It’s not going to happen straight away, but we have to work for this. To Evertonians I would like to say, “Stay with the team as you always do because it’s really important for the players to have your support”.

Everton languish in 15th in the Premier League, just four points above the relegation zone

‘I would like to work together with the supporters. My dream is to bring success to this club.’

Ancelotti has taken over from caretaker manager Duncan Ferguson at Goodison Park and he has a huge job on his hands to restore Everton’s confidence.

Ancelotti, who has managed European giants such as AC Milan, Bayern Munich and Real Madrid, takes charge of a team that has already lost nine games in the Premier League.

The Toffees currently languish in 15th, just four points above the relegation zone. They have not won a trophy since the FA Cup in 1995.

Ancelotti's first match in charge of the Toffees is at home to Burnley on Boxing Day

‘I am really excited,’ he added. ‘I enjoy the place, the team, the club. This is a club with a lot of ambition, with great history.

‘I think a lot of the squad is good. Of course I am here to improve the team and to put better quality in the squad.

‘I have a good memory here, or bad for me, because Everton was the only team I didn’t beat in my experience in the Premier League (as Chelsea manager) and the last game I played in the Premier League was here, so I am happy to be here and come back.’