She said politicians don't see the connection between fires and climate change

Greta Thunberg called out the government for lack of action on the crisis

Teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg has weighed in on Australia's deadly bushfire crisis.

The 16-year-old Swedish environmentalist called out politicians 'failing to make the connection' between rising temperatures and extreme weather events.

'Not even catastrophes like these seem to bring any political action. How is this possible?' she tweeted to her 3.7million followers on Sunday night.

Teenage climate change activist Greta Thunberg has weighed in on Australia's deadly bushfire crisis

The 16-year-old Swedish environmentalist called out politicians on Twitter for not noticing a link between rising temperatures and bushfires

More than 20 homes are feared lost in the Blue Mountains after the blaze tore through on Saturday night, fuelled by intense weather conditions. Pictured: Tutti Fruitti Fruit Shop

'Because we still fail to make the connection between the climate crisis and increased extreme weather events and nature disasters like the #AustraliaFires.

'That's what has to change. Now.'

Greta, who gained international fame earlier this year for her climate change activism, shared her thoughts along with a retweet of a video showing a ring of fire surrounding Sydney.

In just over an hour, the tweet has already been shared more than 5,000 times.

The teenage activist's comments come after Prime Minister Scott Morrison apologised for holidaying in Hawaii during the worst bushfire season in Australia's history.

The prime minister was scrutinised for his decision to leave Australia for a personal trip while the nation was burning.

His office has also been criticised for not being honest about where he was.

Bushfires that ripped through NSW in catastrophic conditions have all but wiped out a small village and there are fears 100 more buildings have been destroyed across the state

Bushfires that ripped through NSW have all but wiped out a small village and there are fears 100 more buildings have been destroyed across the state.

NSW Rural Fire Service commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons says the extent of property damage, which includes houses as well as other structures such as sheds, is 'significant'.

'We could be talking about another hundred buildings being added to the state tally so far this season,' he told reporters on Sunday.

Most of the losses were from the huge Gospers Mountain blaze northwest of Sydney, the Green Wattle Creek fire southwest of the city and the Currowan bushfire on the South Coast.

Emergency warnings weren't downgraded until the early hours of Sunday morning.

'We are expecting another heavy toll unfortunately with estimates that property loss could be in the dozens of buildings including homes, outbuildings, sheds and businesses,' Mr Fitzsimmons said.

The areas hardest hit include Lithgow and along the Bells Line of Road in the upper Blue Mountains, and the Wollondilly Shire villages of Buxton and Bargo, which were ravaged for the second time in three days.

Premier Gladys Berejiklian says 'there's not much left' in the small town of Balmoral, south-west of Sydney.

Balmoral, in the Wingecarribee Shire Council area, consists of about 150 houses with a population of some 400 people.

In South Australia, at least 70 homes have been destroyed and at least one person killed in the 25,000ha Cudlee Creek blaze in the Adelaide Hills.

More 404 outbuildings and 227 vehicles have also been destroyed, according to Premier Steven Marshall.

As of 7pm Sunday night, the Gospers Mountain and Grose Valley fires were at watch and act level and another 11 across the state were at advice level, according to the NSW Rural Fire Service website