She recently jetted off to St. Barts for a festive holiday with her family.

And Rita Ora is certainly making the most of her Christmas break as she showcased her sizzling figure on the beach on Saturday.

The Anywhere singer, 29, displayed plenty of side-boob in a white halterneck swimsuit as she posed up a storm on the sandy shores of island, before heading off on a yacht.

In her element: Rita Ora is certainly making the most of her Christmas break as she showcased her sizzling figure on the beach in St. Barths on Saturday

The swimwear featured high-waisted bottoms and a cut-out front, which allowed the star to put plenty of cleavage on display.

Completing her look, Rita added a pair of rounded, chunky black sunglasses and wore a gold bracelet on her arm.

She appeared to go make-up free for her beach outing and her wet blonde tresses were slicked back off her face.

Wow-factor! The Anywhere singer, 29, displayed plenty of side-boob in a shimmering metallic halterneck swimsuit as she posed up a storm on the sandy shores of island

Kicking back: The media personality tapped into full relaxation mode as she lounged on a beach towel

Ooh-la-la: The swimwear featured high-waisted bottoms and a cut-out front, which allowed the star to put plenty of cleavage on display

Deep in thought: She rested on the sand as she engaged in a conversation over the phone

Rita has joined her mother Vera, father Besnik, sister Elena and brother Don, 22, for the luxury trip.

Vera herself shared an image of her and Rita posing up a storm, with her singer daughter once again showcasing her figure in a khaki bikini.

Meanwhile, the songstress has shared a slew of bikini-clad snaps on her Instagram during the holiday.

Feeling reflective in one post, she wrote: 'Holiday starts now. 2019...it’s been...busy...one movie Oliver Twist (can’t wait for you all to see it next year!)

Less is more: She appeared to go make-up free for her beach outing and her wet blonde tresses were slicked back off her face

Cheery: Rita appeared in great spirits as she hopped on a speedboat ahead of her time on a yacht

'One world tour one tv show 5 campaigns a few magazine covers 4 music videos, prepping for 2020...launched my own tequila @prosperotequila which got ranked top 10 first year!! (number 7)

'Hmmmm what else? It’ll come to me, it’s late and I’m tired while I’m posting this but I love you and I get moushiiii on vacation so deal with it...I’m grateful and ready for 2020.'

Rita is braced for a busy 2020 when The Masked Singer kicks off on January 4, but she was forced to sit out its press launch in December after falling ill.

Sizzling: The blonde looked sensational as she posed for snaps while showcasing her endless pins, shared to her Instagram account on Sunday

Stunning: She was in her element as she kicked back on the luxurious yacht

Looking good: The former ANTM presenter gazed into the distance as she took in the stunning scenery

That's my girl: Vera herself shared an image of her and Rita posing up a storm, with her singer daughter once again showcasing her figure in a khaki bikini

Her absence let co-panelists Jonathan Ross and Davina McCall able to dish the dirt on the star - who will sit alongside them and guesses which celebrities are singing in front of them while wearing massive costumes.

'We love Rita, but she was the kid of the team,' Jonathan said. 'She was on her f**king phone the whole time. Checking the gram, checking the gram, checking the gram.

'She said to me "I've just moved into a new house, I'm looking for a hoover". I had to say to her "you're recording a new big show - now is not the time to find yourself a hoover!"'

Feeling herself: The songstress has shared a slew of bikini-clad snaps on her Instagram during the holiday

Reflective: Clearly feeling reflective, she captioned one photo with: 'Holiday starts now. 2019...it’s been...busy...one movie Oliver Twist (can’t wait for you all to see it next year!)