She's an entrepreneur, budding fashion designer and brand ambassador.

And former AFL WAG Nadia Bartel alerted fans on Sunday to her must-have beauty buys in time for Christmas.

Detailing the products on her Instagram Stories, the 34-year-old said she 'gets lots of compliments' when spritzing her skin with Tom Ford's $260 Velvet Orchid fragrance.

Gift ideas galore: Nadia Bartel, 34, (pictured) took to Instagram Stories on Sunday to share her must-have beauty buys, in time for Christmas, including a $260 Tom Ford fragrance

Nadia cut a glamorous figure in the clip, opting for a slim-fit white T-shirt tucked into a khaki skirt.

Her fair locks were styled out and in soft waves, and her makeup included defined brows, lashings of mascara, contoured cheekbones and a matte nude lip.

Nadia admitted to her 617,000 fans that she's been slack with her Christmas shopping this year, and will be purchasing her gifts in the next two days.

'Jo Malone has such beautiful products,' the mother-of-two gushed online, while opening up a $215 gift set containing a home fragrance, hand wash, along with two candles.

Gift set: Nadia held up a $215 Jo Malone gift set containing a home fragrance, hand wash, along with two candles

'I always get lots of compliments': Next was Tom Ford's Velvet Orchid fragrance, with oriental floral notes, retailing for $260

'When you see Jo Malone in a room or a house it just looks so pretty, and it's a gift that so many people will love,' she said.

Next was Tom Ford's Velvet Orchid fragrance, with oriental floral notes, retailing for $260.

'It's a beautiful brand, I love their makeup, it's so luxurious,' Nadia said. 'And this one is my favourite scent. Whenever I'm wearing it, I always get lots of compliments.'

Anti-ageing: The mother-of-two held up a bottle of Lancôme's Advanced Génifique Youth Activating Concentrate, selling for $300

Shimmering: Nadia's last gift was Elizabeth Arden's $99 'Holiday Blockbuster' bag, containing four lipsticks, two eye shadow palettes (pictured), makeup brushes, as well as a highlighter

Nadia then held up a bottle of Lancôme's Advanced Génifique Youth Activating Concentrate, selling for $300.

'This serum they have been working on for 20 years. It's such an incredible anti-ageing serum,' the Melbourne-based star informed her followers.

Nadia rounded off her must-have gifts with Elizabeth Arden's $99 'Holiday Blockbuster' bag.

The TV presenter opened a red faux leather tote containing four lipsticks, two eye shadow palettes, makeup brushes, as well as a highlighter.

Over: Nadia confirmed her split from AFL star husband Jimmy Bartel (pictured), 36, in August

Children: The former couple share sons Aston, four, and Henley, one

Nadia has been balancing a burgeoning business empire with motherhood, since splitting from AFL star husband Jimmy Bartel, 36, in August.

The former couple share two children: sons Aston, four, and Henley, one.

Jimmy's new romance with Lauren Mand was exposed just days after Nadia confirmed their separation on August 15.

At the time of their split, it was widely reported that Jimmy and Lauren were in a 'long-term relationship' that Nadia had discovered through 'text messages'.