Did you see the collision this morning? Email william.cole@mailonline.co.uk

West Yorkshire Police said driver thought to have argued with victims before the crash

49-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of attempted murder

Audi car ploughed into a group of people in Cleckheaton in West Yorkshire

A man is fighting for his life after an Audi ploughed into a group of people in the early hours of this morning.

A 49-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of attempted murder and he remains in custody following the incident in Cleckheaton in West Yorkshire.

One man, who is in his 40s, suffered life threatening injuries, two people were seriously injured and three people sustained minor injuries after the collision.

A 49-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of attempted murder and he remains in custody following the incident in Cleckheaton in West Yorkshire

They were hit by a red Audi at the corner of Bradford Road and Balme Road in Cleckheaton, at around 12.37am today.

West Yorkshire Police said the driver is thought to have been involved in an argument with some of the victims, before the collision.

Detective Chief Superintendent Pat Twiggs, of Protective Services Crime, said: 'This is clearly a very serious incident and one which has caused understandable concern in the community.

'We have been conducting enquiries throughout the night and have spoken to a number of witnesses.

One man, who is in his 40s, suffered life threatening injuries, two people were seriously injured and three people sustained minor injuries after the collision

Detective Chief Superintendent Pat Twiggs, of Protective Services Crime, said: 'This is clearly a very serious incident and one which has caused understandable concern in the community'

'I would appeal for anyone who has information and has yet to speak to officers to please get in touch. I would also appeal for anyone who has any dashcam footage of the incident to contact our officers.

'I would also ask for anyone who has CCTV in the local area which may have captured the incident or the red Audi driving in the area to contact officers as soon as possible.

'A scene remains in place while our enquiries continue.'

Anyone with information should contact police on 101, quoting crime reference 13190652982. Information can also be passed anonymously to independent charity Crimestoppers on 0800 111 555.