ITV has apologised to grime star Stormzy after he told them 'you can suck my d***' amid accusations they had been 'spinning his words' over an interview in which he said the UK was a racist country.

In an interview with an Italian newspaper the Heavy Is The Head rapper was asked if the UK was a racist country, and said: 'Definitely, 100%. It's like, 'oh no, we're not racist', but there's a lot of racism in the country.'

ITV headlined their piece on the interview: 'Rapper Stormzy says UK is '100 per cent' racist' and received a furious four-letter response from the Glastonbury headliner.

Stormzy retweeted the story, writing simply: 'ITV you lot can suck my d*** for this.'

He then followed up with a tweet to say: 'All you publications and media outlets that are intentionally spinning my words for some click bait can suck my d*** and please don't try beg it in the future.'

Grime star Stormzy, whose second album was released this month, lashed out at coverage and headlines of his recent interview which touched on the subject of racism

Moments later he extended his attack to any media outlets guilty of 'spinning his words'

And when gently chastised by a fan who said 'you are better than that' Stormzy replied: 'Nah I'm not better than that lmao [laughing my ass off]'.

The row prompted 'Stormzy' to start trending on the popular social network, after which the rapper shared a track from his new album, which came out last week.

The grime artist, 26, who released his second album Heavy Is The Head earlier this month, made the comments to La Repubblica.

Asked if the UK was a racist country, he said: 'Definitely, 100%. It's like: 'Oh no, we're not racist'. But there's a lot of racism in the country.

'The difficult thing with the UK is, as you said, in Italy it's a clear problem, whereas trying to explain that Britain is a racist country is the most difficult thing ever.

ITV news later apologised on Sunday evening for the headline which they said 'did not reflect these comments fully and was therefore amended'

'They think: 'No, it's not. Stormzy you're successful. Look at London, there's loads of black people'. It's a more difficult case to fight.'

ITV later clarified its position yesterday evening in a series of tweets, and apologised to the Grime star for the headline in its story.

One of the tweets said: 'Despite this, it was felt the headline at the top of this story on our website and Twitter post did not reflect these comments fully and was therefore amended.

'The tweet regarding the quotes was also later removed. We would like to apologise to Stormzy for any misunderstanding.'

The apology came shortly after Tottenham Hotspur confirmed they are 'conducting a thorough investigation' into allegations of racism during yesterday's match against Chelsea.

And have vowed in a statement to take the 'strongest possible action'.

Chelsea defender Antonio Rudiger appeared to suggest that he was racially abused by Tottenham fans, during his side's 2-0 victory.

After the game, referring to the incident, former Spurs striker and Match of the Day pundit Gary Lineker tweeted: 'Seems that there may well have been another racist episode. Those that were quick to condemn @stormzy's comments should take note.'

And in a nod to Stormzy's earlier quotes, former Arsenal striker Ian Wright, tweeted saying: 'Definitely, 100%.'

Gary Lineker tweeted about the alleged racist incident soon after the game on Sunday and said that people quick to condemn Stormzy should 'take note'

In a reference to Stormzy's comments Ian Wright tweeted 'definitely, 100 per cent' when reacting to claims of racist behaviour from Tottenham Hotspur fans on Sunday

Also in the interview, Stormzy drew attention to the language Boris Johnson has employed in his newspaper columns to refer to people of colour.

Stormzy said: 'If the top person can openly say this racist thing - the 'piccaninnies' remarks, 'watermelon smiles', comparing Muslim women to a letter box.

'If that is our figurehead, the top man, the leader we have to follow, and he openly says these things, he encourages hate among others.'

The rapper, real name Michael Omari, said he was unsure whether he would accept an MBE or OBE if he was offered one.

While conceding his mother would be proud if her son were awarded an MBE or OBE, Stormzy said the Empire has 'a very dark history' which would make accepting such an honour uncomfortable.

Since shooting to international superstardom, the Brit Award-winner has made his political allegiance clear and regularly uses his platform to promote Labour and castigate the Tories.

Piers Morgan voiced his own opinion following Stormzy's recent classroom intervention

During the election, he joined forces with a string of celebrities urging fans to support Mr Corbyn.

He also weighs in on current affairs on stage, memorably chanting 'oh Jeremy Corbyn' at Glastonbury and savaging Theresa May's response to Grenfell live at the Brit Awards.

Stormzy' summer Number 1, Vossi Bop, contains the lyric 'f*** the government and f*** Boris'.

After the election result the rapper went into a classroom and told seven-year-olds that 'Boris is a bad bad man'.

This sparked fury online, led by GMB presenter Piers Morgan who said: 'He shouldn't have done this, and shouldn't have been allowed to do this.'

The rapper hit back, writing: 'The kid asked me a question and I replied truthfully nothing wrong with that Piers lol.'

MailOnline has contacted Stormzy and his representatives for comment.