Liam Gallagher has denied claims that he has been thrown out of his local pub 'numerous times' - but did confirm plans to leave his £2.1million Highgate home.

The Oasis star, 47, is reportedly set to move to nearby suburb Muswell Hill after allgedly getting into various 'rows' with others who live nearby, according to The Sun.

But in a defiant tweet, Liam denied any 'problem' with his neighbours and insisted he had 'certainly never been' asked to leave 'any' of his local pubs.

Moving on? Liam Gallagher has denied claims that he has been thrown out of his local pub 'numerous times' - but did confirm plans to leave his £2.1million Highgate home

Not happy: In a defiant tweet, Liam denied any 'problem' with his neighbours and insisted he had 'certainly never been' asked to leave 'any' of his local pubs

The star instead suggested he was a 'great customer' of pubs including his immediate local, The Prince Of Wales, and said the future was 'looking bright'.

He wrote: I’ve never had a problem with any of my neighbours and I’ve certainly never been asked to leave any of my local pubs im a great customer i have moved location as the future is looking bright I look forward to meeting my new neighbours Happy Christmas LG x'

However, a source who lives in the 'quiet' residential street in Muswell Hill where Liam plans to move to, told MailOnline that his new neighbours are unlikely to take kindly to the new arrival.

They said: 'It’s very suburban and quiet here, so rowdy behaviour might not go down well with the neighbours.'

Local: in a defiant tweet, Liam denied any 'problem' with his neighbours and insisted he had 'certainly never been' asked to leave 'any' of his local pubs, including the Prince Of Wales

Liam and his fiancée Debbie Gwyther were both kicked out of The Prince of Wales in September when Debbie reportedly clashed with two women in the toilets.

Sources claimed he was hassled by other drinkers despite trying to keep a low profile.

MailOnline has contacted Liam's representatives for comment.

The couple got off to a bad start in the North London area when Liam yelled that his neighbours were 'prats' just days after they moved in to the house last July.

Heading out: Moving vehicles were seen outside the couple's Highgate home as sources claimed they would be moving into another house in a nearby suburb

Possessions: After getting into various 'rows' with others who lived nearby, the singer has allegedly decided to up sticks and move to nearby suburb Muswell Hill

A source told The Sun: 'Neighbours hoped initially they’d got off on the wrong foot and things would improve as people got used to Liam living here. But as time went on, he got into more and more rows.

'His favourite pub to drink in was The Prince of Wales and he’s been thrown out numerous times. Now it seems he’s finally had enough and has decided to move on.'

It comes after the As You Were hitmaker called Debbie the 'best thing that's ever happened' to him.

Gushing about his wife-to-be, Liam said: 'She doesn’t let me play up, which is what I need. I needed to have my head shook and get back out doing [music].'

'She’s not obsessed with the fame and the Gucci parties. We don’t hang out with a so-called celebrity crew,' he added.

Smitten: Meanwhile, the As You Were hitmaker called his fiancée Debbie Gwyther the 'best thing that's ever happened' to him