Aguer Akech Lual, 17, died at the scene of the fight at St Albans, northwest of Melbourne in the early hours of Sunday morning.

A 17-year-old boy is dead after a brawl broke out between rival youth groups on the streets of Melbourne.

Aguer Akech Lual died at the scene of the fight near the Keilor Plains railway station on Regan Street in St Albans, north-west of Melbourne, in the early hours of Sunday morning.

A number of teenagers were arrested after the deadly fight, which started in the area between the railway ­station and a nature strip at about 1.30am.

There were reports Aguer had been stabbed, but police refused to comment.

The Homicide Squad questioned youths following the fight, and are continuing their investigation.

'The teenagers in custody are currently assisting police with their ­inquiries,' a Victoria Police spokeswoman said.

No charges have been laid.

Detectives cordoned off the area and were seen paying close attention to a silver Honda Civic in the train station's carpark.

Clothing was found in a park nearby, and smashed wooden stakes were strewn across the road.

Detectives set up police tape to cordon off the area on Regan Street in St Albans, northwest of Melbourne

Police questioned locals who saw the teens running towards a nearby home on Regan Street.

'The guys that come, they wanted to fight,' the witness told Nine News.

Detectives spent Sunday morning knocking on residents' doors, asking them to check their bins and drains for any weapons.

Local resident George Mikhail said he heard police arrive early on Sunday morning.

'My dad heard sirens at around 4am. Then suddenly he saw 20 policemen arrive. I didn't hear any gunshots,' he told the Herald Sun.

Other residents reported being woken up by helicopters circling above and the sound of police sirens.

Aguer Akech Lual's body was found on Regan Street in St Albans, north-west of Melbourne, in the early hours of Sunday morning

Clothing was found in a park nearby, and smashed wooden stakes (pictured) were strewn across the road

Another local gave a statement to police saying she heard a group of male voices outside her house early Sunday morning.

'I heard them shouting and swearing at around 1.30am. They must have scattered soon after because things quietened down pretty quickly,' she said.

Victoria Sivakov, who has lived in the area for 15 years, said while fights a between young people at the station wasn't uncommon, nothing like this had ever happened before.

So far no charges have been laid, but several male teenagers remain in custody where they are still being quizzed by homicide detectives.

Police believe the two groups are known to each other.

The South Sudanese community are in mourning following the death of the talented young basketball player

So far no charges have been laid, but several male teenagers remain in custody where they are still being quizzed by homicide detectives

Meanwhile, the South Sudanese community are in mourning following the death of the talented young basketball player.

'Christmas has been torn apart, it won't seem like Christmas anymore,' Chair of South Sudanese community association Achol Marial said.

Ms Marial said Aguer's mother Martha collapsed and was taken to hospital after being told of his death.

'She was devastated, she was in shock and was left unconscious. She had to be taken to Melbourne Hospital,' Ms Marial said.

The Homicide Squad questioned youths following the fight, and are continuing their investigation



