The BBC is considering restricting how its journalists use Twitter after its top correspondents were criticised during the election.

The plan would see reporters being told to move away from social media to break stories and offer instant analysis.

It comes after political editor Laura Kuenssberg faced fierce criticism, particularly from those on the left, for her tweets during the election.

The BBC is considering restricting how its journalists use Twitter after its top correspondents such as Laura Kuenssberg were criticised during the election

The political editor tweeted that a Labour activist had punched an aide of Matt Hancock, which later proved to be false

She, along with ITV's political editor Robert Peston, tweeted the false claim that an aide of Health Secretary Matt Hancock was punched by a Labour activist.

The claim was quickly disproved by video evidence, forcing them to back down and apologise for the misleading information.

Meanwhile the BBC's North America editor Jon Sopel has been accused of revealing an anti-Donald Trump bias on Twitter.

Fran Unsworth, the director of news and current affairs at the BBC is now keen to persuade journalists to stop their frequent posts, according to The Guardian.

North America editor Jon Sopel has been accused of airing anti-Trump views on Twitter

A BBC journalist said: 'She said that it was likely she would meet some resistance, but that she wants to start a debate and was now contemplating asking correspondents to come off Twitter.'

Unsworth is thought to have outlined the plans during a party at the BBC Council Chamber in the old Broadcasting House.

She also told The Guardian last weekend: 'We just need to reinforce our social media rules. But I don't think it's viable to say take a step back.'

Sources say it is unlikely she would ban Twitter use altogether and she recognises its importance for breaking stories, but wants more stringent rules.

It comes after Chanel 4 reportedly banned its non-political staff from tweeting about current affairs.

Kuenssberg signed off from Twitter on Thursday for the Christmas period after facing a constant stream of abuse.

She previously faced a barrage of criticism after revealing the name of the father of a sick boy who confronted Boris Johnson in a hospital.

After Omar Salem took the Prime Minister to task during a visit to a children's ward at Whipps Cross University Hospital in Leytonstone, East London, where his seven-day-old daughter is being treated, Kuenssberg told her followers he was a Labour activist, before linking to one of his posts about the incident.

Jon Sopel has been accused of making clear his anti-Donald Trump bias on Twitter despite the BBC being impartial

It prompted fury from many social media users, with some suggesting it could 'direct harassment' at Mr Salem, and causing #SackLauraKuenssberg to begin trending online.

Last week, Andy McDonald, a member of the shadow cabinet, said the BBC played a part in Labour's crushing election defeat.

The attack's on the corporation's impartiality led Huw Edwards, the election night anchor, to write a defence of the BBC, saying: 'Providing a fair and balanced account of a complex election campaign – with feelings running high on all sides – is difficult enough.

'Trying to do so while dealing with relentlessly vitriolic attacks is doubly challenging.'