Actor Tony Britton has died aged 95, his daughter Fern Britton announced today.

She said: 'Our father, Tony Britton, died early this morning. Great actor, director and charmer. May flights of angels sing thee to thy rest.'

The actor starred in classic British films including Operation Amsterdam, Sunday Bloody Sunday and The Day of the Jackal.

He also appeared alongside Nigel Havers and Dinah Sheridan in the BBC sitcom Don't Wait Up between 1983 to 1990.

Actor Tony Britton (pictured) has died aged 95, his daughter Fern Britton announced today

Actor Tony Britton has died aged 95, his daughter Fern Britton (pictured together) has said

Tony Britton (pictured right) as Major Dillon in the 1959 film Operation Amsterdam, alongside Peter Finch (left) and Alexander Knox (centre)

Daughter Fern Britton led tributes today on Twitter as she paid tribute to her father Tony, calling him a 'great actor, director and charmer'.

Jasper Britton, the actor's son from his second marriage, wrote : 'As he was wont to say, 'that's show business, kid''.'

Downton Abbey actor Peter Egan was among those to pay tribute, saying: 'Very sad to see the passing of the legend Tony Britton.

'A wonderful actor and light comedian. Condolences to his family. A lovely man too.'

Journalist Alastair Stewart said: 'So many memories of outrageously funny, witty times - and the tough ones, too. You are in our thoughts.'

Actor and director Nicholas Pegg said he was 'raising a glass to the great Tony Britton'.

He added how the renowned actor was the inspiration behind his career on stage.

Daughter Fern Britton led tributes to her late father today along with her half-brother Jasper

Actor and comedian Sanjeev Bhaskar said: 'Profound condolences Fern and gratitude for the joy and entertainment your Dad brought to me and millions of others. Sending love and strength.'

Benidorm actress Sherrie Hewson said: 'Sending much love @Fern-Britton a truly wonderful man a real star in everyone's eyes! He will never be forgotten RIP'.

John Challis, best known as acerbic car salesman Boycie in Only Fools And Horses, hailed Britton as 'one of life's gentlemen', adding 'So sorry Fern.'

The Strictly Come Dancing house band, led by Dave Arch, posted: 'Sorry to see this news. Love to you and yours Fern'.

Tony Britton, pictured in London in 1990, said his family had no theatrical background at all, but said he wanted to be an actor since he was a young boy

Born in June 1924 in Birmingham, Britton was called up to the Army during World War II, where he formed a theatre group with fellow recruits during officer training.

Speaking to the BBC's Desert Island Discs in 1973, he said his family had no theatrical background at all, but said he wanted to be an actor since he was a young boy.

He also worked in an aircraft factory and as an estate agent as a young man, while joining an amateur dramatics group in Weston-super-Mare before he turned professional as a stage actor.

After working in Manchester and Edinburgh, he found a job at the Old Vic in Bristol before his 'big break' in the West End, appearing in the play The Firstborn.

Subsequently he worked in Stratford-upon-Avon and appeared on stage with the Royal Shakespeare Company.

Tony Briton (left) in in BBC sitcom Don't Tell Father with Susan Hampshire, Caroline Quentin and Philip Fox

Tony Britton attends a memorial service for writer and former jockey Dick Francis at the St. Martin-in-the Fields Church in London in 2010

His on-screen career began after he played Romeo in a TV production of Shakespeare's play.

Britton was offered a film contract which landed him a part in Operation Amsterdam, an action film based on Nazi Germany's invasion of the Netherlands.

He had two of his most memorable roles in the early 1970s, when he played George Harding in Sunday Bloody Sunday and then featured as Superintendent Brian Thomas in The Day of The Jackal.

Fern Britton and her sister, scriptwriter Cherry Britton, are the daughters of Tony Britton and his first wife Ruth Hawkins.

Fern, now 62, is best known for presenting Ready Steady Cook on BBC One and later This Morning on ITV. She is married to celebrity chef Phil Vickery.

Tony Britton's second wife was Danish sculptor Eva Castle Britton (nee Skytte Birkenfeldt) with whom he shares a son, Jasper Britton.

In 2013 Britton appeared as the Earl of Gloucester in a production of Shakespeare's King Lear at the Old Vic in London, directed by Sir Jonathan Miller who died last month.

Actor Tony Britton and wife Ruth with their newborn daughter Fern Britton in 1957

Tony Britton with his daughter Fern Britton in September 1995