She's preparing to walk down the aisle with her fiancé Oliver Cheshire next year.

And Pixie Lott was making the most of final Christmas as a single girl, enjoying a night out with friend in central London on Saturday.

The star, 28, looked in high spirits as she left the Ivy Chelsea Garden, dressed to impress in a white fringed coat.

Party pals: Pixie Lott was making the most of final Christmas as a single girl, enjoying a night out with friend in central London on Saturday

Pixie embraced a winter chic look in her dramatic jacket, which she paired with a smart Chanel bag.

The singer scraped her blonde hair back into a low bun and kept her make-up simple and sophisticated.

The Mama Do hit-maker couldn't hide her smile as she left the venue, calling it a night and hopping into a taxi.

Snow queen: Pixie embraced a winter chic look in her dramatic jacket, which she paired with a smart Chanel bag

Only recently, Pixie revealed to MailOnline that she plans to try and squeeze in six hen dos as she talked wedding plans and trying to make it in America following her first public performance stateside.

The Cry My Heart Out hitmaker, who previously noted that she has 18 bridesmaids following her down the aisle, also admitted that it has been a bit 'hectic' trying to plan her wedding to her model fiancé.

Speaking at a pop-up Coca-Cola photo booth in London's Covent Garden, Pixie gave insights into her upcoming wedding and revealed how she first asked her pals and family to be apart of her big day.

Not long to go: The pop princess is preparing to walk down the aisle with her fiancé Oliver Cheshire next year

She said: 'We did a whole shebang and I made little parcels, which is how they all found out, but we’ve done one hen do so far but I did say we were going to have six, so I need to try and fit that in before the wedding.'

Pixie's 'lovely' entourage will include her best friends from school, cousins and family friends, who she said she is desperate to find the perfect dress for.

Detailing her stress over finding the right gown, she said: 'I just want to make sure I get a dress that they’re all happy with because they’re all different shapes and sizes and I want them to all wear the same thing - apart from the little flower girls.'