Earlier this week she celebrated her son Axel's fourth birthday at the beach.

And on Sunday, Michelle Bridges threw a lavish feast to celebrate the occasion with close friends and family.

Taking to her Instagram, the 49-year-old celebrity fitness trainer shared a series of sweet snaps alongside the birthday boy and husband Steve Willis posing beside his space-themed cake.

Hip hip hooray! On Sunday, Michelle Bridges celebrated her son Axel's 4th birthday with a lavish feast... but he didn't look impressed as they posed for a family portrait. Pictured: Michelle, husband Steve Willis and Axel

Alongside the set of snaps, Michelle wrote: 'Guess who loves a photo opportunity... Happy Birthday to the most fun, serious, smart, curious, loving and kind little man.'

'We adore you to the moon and back, thank you for choosing to come to us,' alongside the hashtag '#angrybirdsface'.

But it seems his custom made PJ Masks cake and old school funny face biscuits weren't enough to put a smile on the little boy's face, instead choosing to grimace for the snap.

Alongside the set of snaps, Michelle wrote: 'Guess who loves a photo opportunity... Happy Birthday to the most fun, serious, smart, curious, loving and kind little man'

Meanwhile, the fitness fanatics treated their adults to a large range of delicious salads, prawns and lamb chops, cherries and canapes.

Another snap showed Michelle carefully assisting her son to cut his cake, while another child looked on.

The celebration come after Michelle shared a sweet photo of herself and the little boy enjoying a day at the beach together on Thursday.

Celebrations! His custom made PJ Masks cake and old school funny face biscuits weren't enough to put a smile on the little boy's face, instead choosing to grimace for the snap.

Something for everyone! Meanwhile, the fitness fanatics treated their adults to a large range of delicious salads, prawns and lamb chops, cherries and canapes

Showing off her toned physique in a black patterned bikini, the mum-of-one gave her son a peck on the lips as she sat on the sand.

Dressed in a rash shirt and a hat, Axel leant towards his mum for the kiss, a slick of zinc visible across his nose and cheeks.

Meanwhile, Michelle covered up in a straw hat and sunglasses, a red bucket seen alongside them, which had been used to build sandcastles.

'My heart skipped a beat... and just like that, he was 4... Happy birthday my one #beachbirthday goodbye my little toddler...' she wrote on Instagram, adding a series of celebratory emojis.