Kim kardashian made quite the glamorous and memorable arrival when she attended the opening of her husband Kanye West's opera Mary in New York City on Sunday.

And the mother-of-four, 39, continued to dazzle later that evening, when she stepped out for dinner donning the same gold gown she'd worn to the big event.

The curvaceous Keeping Up With The Kardashians star's frock of choice featured a ruched bodice and skirt, a high neckline and a very daring thigh-high split.

Golden: Kim Kardahsian was seen emerging from her New York City hotel in style on Sunday

Standing tall in a pair of nude strappy heels, which featured gladiator-style lacing ascending to above her knees, the star exuded glamour as she stepped out onto Manhattan's bustling streets.

With her raven locks falling beyond her shoulders in voluminous glossy waves, the reality star highlighted her beauty with an impeccably applied palette of makeup.

Despite her post-opera outing taking place in the evening, the California native opted to accessorise with a pair of brown tinted sunglasses.

The thigh's the limit: Walking beside her husband Kanye West, the curvaceous beauty sported a gold ruched dress, which featured a high neckline and a very daring thigh-high split

She's got sole: She stood tall in a pair of nude strappy heels, which featured gladiator-style lacing ascending to above her knees

Shades: Despite her post-opera outing taking place in the evening, the California native opted to accessorise with a pair of brown tinted sunglasses

It's a family affair: The lovebirds were accompanied by their son Saint and daughter North

Doting mother: Kim placed a protective arm on her eldest daughter's shoulder as they made their way to popular Caribbean restaurant Negril Village

Meanwhile, her 42-year-old husband Kanye, cut a sharp figure, stepping out in a black blazer with matching slim-cut trousers and a blue top.

Rounding off his look with a pair of heavy duty brown boots, he proudly walked beside his wife as they made their way to popular Caribbean eatery Negril Village.

Earlier in the evening, the couple's daughter North, six, and son Saint, four were also in attendance to support their father.

The kids matched in all-white looks as they were spotted exiting the theatre with their parents.

Family outing: Earlier in the evening, Kim was spotted with her family at the Lincoln Center following the New York opening of Kanye's opera Mary

Stay gold: The 39-year-old donned a long-sleeve ankle-length gown with a turtleneck and a thigh-high leg slit trimmed in ruffles

Jovial: The Keeping Up With Kardashians star appeared to be in jovial spirits on her night out

Hell on heels: Kim took to her Instagram story before the show to tease her look, showing off the heels

Sharp look: Kanye, 42, cut a sharp look in black, as he sported a pair of wayfarer sunglasses for the night out

Love and support: He was surrounded by supporters showing him support after the successful opening

North solidified her status as a rising fashion icon in a fuzzy white robe, tied at the waist.

It was worn over a matching top and pants with a pair of pearl chokers, as she carried a mini white Birkin.

Kim took to her Instagram story during the show with some footage of the performance.

The show featured the Sunday Service collective, clad in their signature brown T-shirts and sweats.

Kanye premiered the opera (for which the working title was originally Birth of Jesus) earlier this month at Art Basel in Miami.

Spitting image: Daughter North, six, and son Saint, four were also in attendance to support their father

Chic in white: The kids matched in all-white looks as they were spotted exiting the theatre with their parents

Baby Birkin: North solidified her status as a rising fashion icon in a fuzzy white robe, tied at the waist. It was worn over a matching top and pants with a pair of pearl chokers, as she carried a mini white Birkin

Kim was spotted earlier cutting a chic winter look in a caramel snakeskin topcoat as she arrived at her hotel with North and Saint.

The Skims mogul wore the coat over a mint green turtleneck and a pair of sherbet leather pants.

She completed the look with a pair of brown sunglasses and some neon orange trainers.

Kim took to her story earlier from the Frozen 2 Enchanted Forest experience at Saks Fifth Avenue.

She seemed to be just as into the immersive attraction as her kids, who could be heard shouting in amazement.

Front row view: Kim took to her Instagram story during the show with some footage of the performance

Sunday Service vibes: The show featured the Sunday Service collective, clad in their signature brown t-shirts and sweats

Limited engagement: Kanye premiered the opera (for which the working title was originally Birth of Jesus) earlier this month at Art Basel in Miami

The venue was dressed in thin trees, soaked in red lighting, before Olaf led them to another area lit blue for a more winter aesthetic.

Kim was spotted the night before as she, husband Kanye, 42, daughter North and son Saint stepped out in Midtown.

The mother-of-four went bold in a silver metallic puffy jacket, paired with black leather pants.

The kids served looks as well, North wearing a black leather jacket with matching pants, and saint sporting a neon yellow tracksuit.

Let it go: Kim took to her Instagram story earlier from the Frozen 2 Enchanted Forest experience at Saks Fifth Avenue

Inner child: She seemed to be just as into the immersive attraction as her kids, who could be heard shouting in amazement