Animal Justice Party member Emma Hurst travelled from NSW to Brisbane to fight for the end of dolphin captivity breeding

A vegan politician who is 'disgusted' about dolphin captivity at Sea World has been slammed by the theme park boss for leading an animal rights protest outside her jurisdiction.

Animal Justice Party member Emma Hurst travelled from NSW to Brisbane as she fights to end of dolphin captivity breeding.

'I am disgusted that Sea World continues to breed these highly intelligent animals so that they can profit from circus-style shows,' the proud vegan said.

'Dolphins in captivity can live for up to 50 years. That means that the dolphins any of us saw here as children could still be in the same pools, doing the same meaningless and demeaning tricks.

'Dolphins are wild animals, not objects to be used for our entertainment. Imprisoning them in artificial pools risks teaching children dominance and disrespect for animals.'

About 30 people were spotted outside the Gold Coast theme park holding placards and chanting for two hours on Sunday, The Gold Coast Bulletin reported.

Ms Hurst (middle in black) pictured with other protesters outside Sea World on the Gold Coast

Gold medal winning bodybuilder Emma Hurst has won a seat in the NSW Legislative Council

Village Roadshow Theme Parks boss Bikash Randhawa slammed Ms Hurst for getting involved in another state's jurisdiction.

'What is a NSW senator doing in Queensland? I don't get it. It's insanity,' he told the publication.

Village Roadshow Theme Parks boss Bikash Randhawa slammed Ms Hurst getting involved in another state's jurisdiction

'It's appalling that (she) comes all the way to Queensland to get some publicity.'

Mr Randhawa at the theme park during the protests and was willing to speak to them, but stopped short when he spotted them taking photos for social media.

He attacked their actions as 'ridiculous' and claimed they were using the brand name to get media attention.

He said lines to enter the theme park were in the thousands compared to the mere 20-30 people protesting for animal rights.

'It doesn't bother us anymore, it's just a repetitive, monotonous agenda that I think even our consumers are sick of.'

He explained Village Roadshow theme parks voluntarily pay money into animal rescue operations, including donating to koalas affected in bushfires.

Baby bottlenose dolphin swimming with its mother, Jinx, at Sea World theme park on the Gold Coast in 2016

Ms Hurst, a psychologist, is the Animal Justice Party's second representative in the upper house after party president Mark Pearson.

In a statement after her victory earlier this year, she said: 'I won't be some politician full of empty promises.

'I plan to do whatever it takes to make changes for animals because there are still millions of hens in cages, there are koalas having their homes torn down, and there are animals being shot from the skies.'

A vegan for 19 years, Ms Hurst wants to phase out the production of eggs in Australia, transition the dairy industry to 'plant based farming,' and use contraceptives to reduce the horse population.

She also vows to prevent puppy farming, ban caged chickens, improve the quality of life for dairy cows and stop deforestation to preserve and protect Australia's koala population.

'The dairy industry is a very tough one, obviously with the treatment of the calves, the constant impregnation of mother dairy cows, its continual cruelty,' she told The Daily Telegraph back in April.

Ms Hurst (pictured), a psychologist, is the Animal Justice Party's second representative in the upper house after party president Mark Pearson

She said that dairy farmers struggling to make ends meet should be ousted from the industry with an exit scheme.

'Hopefully that's something we can work to in regards to a dairy exit scheme to support farmers and help them transition into plant based forms of farming.'

Ms Hurst is also working on keeping hens out of cages which she hopes will see a lower consumption of eggs as people change their diets.

To reduce the horse population, she suggested the use of non-lethal solutions such as immunocontraceptives, darting and desexing horses.