After writing their names in the history books, Liverpool stars took a rest from their football duties by posing for the camera.

Liverpool clinched their first-ever FIFA Club World Cup title on Saturday after Roberto Firmino scored an extra-time winner to earn a 1-0 victory over Brazilian side Flamengo in Doha.

And after soaking up the celebrations on the pitch and in the changing rooms, Jurgen Klopp and his Liverpool players took part in a light-hearted photocall with the prestigious trophy.

Mohamed Salah proudly lifts the FIFA Club World Cup trophy above his shoulder in Doha

Jurgen Klopp poses for the camera after the Reds claimed their first ever Club World Cup title

Captain Jordan Henderson kisses his winners medal while posing alongside his manager

Georginio Wijnaldum amusingly lurks behind Virgil van Dijk while staring at him inquisitively

Van Dijk holds the trophy aloft while his compatriot Wijnaldum opts for a more serious pose

Mohamed Salah was seen posing proudly with the gold cup, while captain Jordan Henderson was pictured kissing his winners medal alongside his manager.

Georginio Wijnaldum opted for a more amusing pose by lurking behind compatriot Virgil van Dijk, while staring inquisitively at his face.

James Milner, Divock Origi, Trent Alexander-Arnold and Co decided to flex their muscles as they also posed with the Club World Cup trophy.

The Reds made the most of their celebrations after a hugely physical encounter against Copa Libertadores champions Flamengo in Doha.

Liverpool's Divock Origi, James Milner, Trent Alexander-Arnold and Co flex their muscles

The Reds continued to soak up their historic triumph after celebrating on the pitch in Doha

Roberto Firmino, Liverpool's hero, points to the camera while holding the prestigious trophy

Alisson points to the heavens following the extra-time 1-0 victory on Saturday in Qatar

The Brazilians refused to give the Champions League holders an inch at the Khalifa International Stadium but they were eventually broken down by Firmino, who kept his composure to tuck home the winner.

And after winning their third trophy in six months, Joe Gomez insisted their triumph will help hugely in their quest to clinch their first ever Premier League title.

Liverpool currently sit a massive 10 points clear of Leicester in the Premier League with a match in hand.

'Winning this only adds to our positivity,' Gomez said. 'We come away from here as champions of the world. Why can't we use that as a positive?

'But we know we can't dwell on anything. We're not even halfway through the season yet, so it's a case of heads down and carry on the focus.'

Joe Gomez believes their world triumph will help in their quest to win the Premier League

Origi proudly kisses the Club World Cup trophy on Saturday after coming on as a substitute