Jeremy Corbyn's annual 'happy Hannukkah' message to Jews in Britain and around the world has prompted a furious reaction from, amongst others, the editor of a Jewish newspaper, who told the Labour leader: 'go f*** yourself'.

Meanwhile the Labour Party's Hanukkah message on Twitter has been met with a barrage of sarcasm and condemnation following the party's longrunning failure to address anti-Semitism in its midst.

One replied with a gif of an overloaded 'irony meter' exploding. Another simply wrote: 'too little, too late'.

Jeremy Corbyn led his party to the worst electoral defeat in more than 80 years this month, with many party activists reporting that anti-Semitism was a major factor for voters on the doorstep.

And Labour is currently under investigation for anti-Semitism by the Equality and Human Rights Commission - only the second party in British history, after the BNP, to warrant such a probe.

Earlier this month a 53-page document compiled by the Jewish Labour Movement, claimed 'Mr Corbyn himself has repeatedly associated with, sympathised with and engaged in anti-Semitism'.

It set out in nine examples of Mr Corbyn's past behaviour which the JLM claimed had acted as 'signals to party members' that 'anti-Semitic views are acceptable'.

Today in his video Mr Corbyn extended his wishes to Jews in Britain and around the world celebrating the festival.

He spoke of hope, relating it to the story of the Hannukkah miracle - wherein oil for one night of light lasted eight days - and saying 'light is a symbol of hope, of light against the darkness'.

Stephen Pollard, editor of the Jewish Chronicle, told Mr Corbyn: 'go f*** yourself'

Other responses to included plenty of opprobrium but supporters were quick to spring to Mr Cobryn's defence as well

He went on: 'What inspires me most is that Jews have continued to light their candles for 2,000 years.

'They have been lit in the worst times, during the Spanish Inquisition, in occupied France, in the gulags and in Bergen Belsen.'

He spoke of 'deep divisions' in society but made no reference at all to the scandal which has engulfed the party during his leadership.

The Labour Party tweeted a picture of a menorah as part of their holiday message to Jews

Meanwhile the Labour Party posted a picture of a menorah, writing: 'As Jewish people here in Britain and all over the world light the first candle of the menorah this evening, we wish you all a very happy Hanukkah'.

Reaction to both was swift.

Many fans reacted to Mr Corbyn's message by welcoming the annual tradition, but many replied 'too late'.

One respondent criticised his delivery style, writing: 'Pretty much devoid of any emotion. Just looks like someone reading a Wikipedia entry. And it’s back to sincerity again. This is pure politics. No hint of any recognition of damage caused. Just “I can’t possibly be at fault because I’m telling you what Hannukah is.'

Stephen Pollard, the editor of the Jewish Chronicle which has consistently campaigned against a Corbyn premiership, last month reporting that 87 per cent of British Jews considered the leftwinger an anti-Semite, replied with barely concealed fury.

He wrote: 'I have three words in response.

'The first is Go

'The second begins with an F and ends with a K, and has U and C in the middle.

'The third begins with a Y, ends with an F and has OURSEL in the middle.'

The Labour Party tweet saw the party's timeline immediately filled with sarcastic gifs and messages.

Labour was deluged with sarcastic and offended gifs and messages in response to its tweet

One Twitter user posted a gif of an overloaded 'irony meter' - possibly a reference to Mr Corbyn's controversial statement filmed at a meeting that 'Zionists don't get English irony'.

Another posted a classic gif of Ron Burgundy, Will Ferrell's character in the movie Anchorman, replying: 'I don't believe you'.

Mr Corbyn has said he 'completely' rejects allegations made by the JLM that the party had become a refuge for anti-Semites under his leadership.

Asked about the group's claims during a campaign visit to a school in Peterborough, Mr Corbyn replied: 'I completely reject that. When I became leader of the party there were no processes in place to deal with anti-Semitism.'

He added: 'We introduced an appeals procedure to deal with it and we introduced an education process so that party members understood the hurt that can be caused by anti-Semitic remarks or anti-Semitic behaviour.'

Mr Corbyn said that the 'total number of cases' of anti-Semitism 'as a proportion of party membership is very, very low indeed' but added that 'one case of anti-Semitism is one too many'.

'I do not interfere with cases and as I pointed out it's an independent process,' he said.

A Labour Party spokeswoman said: 'Anti-Semitism is an evil and we are committed to rooting it out of our Party and society. We are fully cooperating with the EHRC.

'The allegation about numbers of outstanding cases is not accurate. And it is categorically untrue that anyone has been instructed to lie.

'The Labour Party is not institutionally anti-Semitic and complaints relate to a small minority of our members.'