Picture One. The early 1990s and seven aspiring young footballers at Manchester United pose in a line next to the club's legendary youth coach Eric Harrison.

Picture Two. More than 20 years have elapsed and six of the gang – Ryan Giggs, Nicky Butt, David Beckham, Gary Neville, Phil Neville and Paul Scholes – have enjoyed fame and success, and are back at Old Trafford to recreate the celebrated snapshot, this time alongside Sir Alex Ferguson.

But there is one absentee at the end of the line. Where is the seventh member of the group?

The little one at the end of the line is called Terry Cooke, and he's 4,500 miles away in the delightfully-named town of Golden, Colorado on the outskirts of Denver, where he's built a new life after turning his back on England with some sense of personal and professional regret.

Legendary Manchester United youth team coach Eric Harrison poses with his most famous graduates (left-right) Ryan Giggs, Nicky Butt, David Beckham, Gary Neville, Phil Neville, Paul Scholes... and Terry Cooke, the only player here who did not become a hero at Old Trafford

The Class of 92 recreate their famous picture, this time with Sir Alex Ferguson in 2011

'Going to America was the best decision I ever made. Everyone is so optimistic over here,' says Cooke, now 43. 'In England you feel people are waiting to knock you down.'

He's got an important job as a director of coaching at Denver Kickers, a huge organisation that runs 54 separate youth and adult amateur teams. He is popular enough also to run his soccer schools, which are advertised on the principle 'Quality not Quantity'.

'We are thankful he works for us,' says Kickers president Erich Dietrich. 'He brings a lot of experience and name recognition.

'All the kids today know about Manchester United and the other big Premier League clubs. It's a smaller world than I grew up in.'

The Terry Cooke story is fascinating and started in the west Midlands. He grew up in Solihull and was an avid Birmingham City fan but such was his potential as a tricky winger, the Manchester United academy snapped him up at the age of 14.

The future Class of 92 were his peers but Cooke, born in 1976, initially lived up to their standards.

Cooke was actually a couple of years behind Beckham and Co in graduating from United's youth ranks, scoring in both legs and in the penalty shootout win over Tottenham in the 1995 final, in which Phil Neville captained United.

He played for England Under 16s in the European Championships in Turkey and made a sparkling United debut aged 19, a flick and cross setting up Ryan Giggs to score against Bolton.

'It could have been my last chance. I might not play for the first-team again,' he said afterwards, aware of the competition at United.

Young Cooke was a fans' favourite - his low centre of gravity, one-touch technical skills and burst of acceleration meant he could bamboozle full-backs on the right.

Yet his size - he barely reached 5ft 7ins - meant it was always going to be a tough ask at the elite level. Not only because of the physical competition but also his body staying injury-free.

There is a rare TV clip early in his career where he says 'I'm growing stronger, I'm growing', at which point the 6ft presenter leaps around to stand next to him and quips 'You could have fooled me'.

Cooke played for United but serious injury stopped him at the point he was about to break through, and his career stalled, later taking him to rivals Manchester City (right)

Cooke played five league games in 1995/96 when Fergie's 'You'll never win anything with kids' team became champions. It didn't qualify him for a medal and then disaster struck in a reserve game against Sheffield Wednesday.

'I was stretchered off and, in the dressing room, Alex Ferguson asked if I would be alright for Saturday, because I was going to be starting in the Premiership,' he recalled in a 2014 interview with the Manchester Evening News.

'I had been playing well. I didn't know what I had done, I thought I had twisted my knee and then the physio turned round and said I wouldn't be playing for the rest of the season. I'd snapped my cruciate.'

It turned out to be the beginning of the end for Cooke at Old Trafford. After loan spells at Sunderland, Birmingham and Wrexham, he signed for Manchester City – a third division team at the time – a month before his mates at United were celebrating a historic Treble in 1999.

He helped City win promotion after their own dramatic play-off final win against Gillingham – 'he played a bit part in the turnaround that season,' said boss Joe Royle - but less than a year later he was packed off again, to Wigan.

The journeyman existence, from Wigan to Sheffield Wednesday to Grimsby, lasted until 2005 when a surprise move to Colorado Rapids proved his solace.

He spent four years with the club and found America very much to his liking. He came up against Beckham's LA Galaxy and outshone his world-famous pal, voted man-of-the-match in a 4-0 Rapids win.

Cooke wound up in America, playing against Beckham for Colorado Rapids in the MLS in 2008 (left); he has settled in the States, and now coaches youth teams at the Denver Kickers

He kept his home in Colorado after leaving Rapids and, after his finishing his playing days with brief spells in Australia and Azerbaijan, got a new job that fitted in with his passion for youth coaching. In addition to the professional frustrations in England, there was also a failed relationship with Nadine Ferguson, who married and divorced Sir Alex's son, Darren.

Denver Kickers, a sports club founded by German immigrants at the foothills of the Rocky Mountains, wanted Cooke to oversee the progress of their thousand-plus players, particularly the next generation.

It's a job that fitted Cooke perfectly. Of all Harrison's Class of 92 disciples, it appears he took on board the importance of coaching most of all.

'Youth soccer should never be about win, win, win,' he told the Colorado-based website Mile High. 'Youth soccer is all about development and getting these kids ready for the next level.

'I grew up in one of the most successful academies in European football, and I was lucky and fortunate to come through that system, but when I look back I was never told "We've got to win this game".

As a coach Cooke is now passing on his knowledge of youth football to the kids of America, which he gleaned at the most famous academy of them all under the fabled Harrison

Cooke has to supervise a large number of coaches but also takes sessions himself.

'He's doing an excellent job and we have an incredible amount of kids playing soccer here in Colorado,' says Dietrich.

'Terry is respected. His personality is a big asset. He's very calm. Parents need to feel the coach working with their kids is trustworthy.

TERRY COOKE: FROM MANCHESTER UNITED TO DENVER VIA AZERBAIJAN Age: 43 Playing position: Midfield Clubs: Manchester United (1994-99), Sunderland (1996 – loan), Birmingham (1996- loan), Wrexham (1998-99 – loan), Manchester City (1999-2002), Wigan (2000 – loan), Sheffield Wednesday (2000-01 – loan), Grimsby (2002-03), Sheffield Wednesday (2003-04), Colorado Rapids (2005-09), North Queensland Fury (2009-10), Gabala (2010-11) International: England Under 21 – four caps Coaching career: Denver Kickers (youth team)

'Colorado loves soccer. Some of the US women's team that won the World Cup this year are from this area. Terry is a very nice gentleman. I'm a Liverpool fan, we talk about the games every Sunday and it's clear he still loves Manchester United!'

Terry 'Cookie' Cooke winter soccer schools are also beginning this month for boys and girls aged from 12 to 18 at a cost of $255. His website plays up the United link with a big picture of a young Terry in the famous red jersey. The advertising blurb says his 'soccer clinics and summer camps have gained a stellar reputation using his knowledge of the professional game and applying the latest coaching techniques.'

When another Class of 92 member, Ben Thornley, wrote his biography earlier this year, Cooke wasn't among the dozens of contributors. He wasn't in the last re-staged picture either. But across the pond, he is the one carrying Eric Harrison's torch for youth football.