50 MPs signed an early day motion for Elizabeth Tower bell to sound at 11pm on January 31

The new House of Commons Speaker has said that Big Ben can ring out for Brexit, marking a change in direction to his predecessor John Bercow.

Sir Lindsay Hoyle has pledged not to let his own political views impair his time in the chair, and would allow the famous bell to sound 'if MPs wish to do that'.

The decision on whether the bells chime is in the hands of the House of Commons Commission, which Sir Lindsay now chairs.

Following Boris Johnson's recent win in the Commons over the Brexit Bill's second reading, the UK looks on course to leave the EU by 11pm on January 31.

Sir Lindsay, who has had to renounce all affiliation with the Labour Party to take up the post and afterwards, said Britain's departure would be a 'significant moment'.

Sir Lindsay Hoyle has pledged not to let his own political views impair his time in the chair, and would allow the famous bell to sound 'if MPs wish to do that'

His constituency of Chorley, Lancs, voted Leave by a majority of almost 57 per cent.

His comments mark a clear break from the approach of ex-Speaker John Bercow, who since stepping down has described Brexit as Britain's biggest mistake since the Second World War.

The former Conservative MP was part of a committee which last year blocked a bid for Big Ben to chime on the original exit date of March 29.

Mr Bercow was also accused of helping to facilitate an anti-Brexit coup with rulings that allowed backbenchers to force the Government's hand.

The 160-year-old clock tower that houses the bell is currently undergoing a £60million restoration as part of a refurbishment of the entire Parliamentary estate

His comments mark a clear break from the approach of ex-Speaker John Bercow, who since stepping down has described Brexit as Britain's biggest mistake since the Second World War

Dame Eleanor Laing, another of Mr Bercow's deputies, suggested he had 'strayed' from the rule of law in decisions he took over Brexit.

More than 50 MPs have signed an early day motion calling for Big Ben to ring out at 11pm on Jan 31.

Speaking in today's Telegraph, Sir Lindsay said: 'If the House wants to do it, the House will do it.

'I'm not sure whether it will be at that stage in the building work that it can ring but if that's what the House wants, I'm not going to stand in the way because of my view. My view doesn't matter.'

The 160-year-old clock tower that houses the bell is currently undergoing a £60million restoration as part of a refurbishment of the entire Parliamentary estate.

Work on the the Elizabeth Tower - as the structure is officially known - began in early 2017 and is expected to be completed within the next two years.

But because of construction workers working so close to the bells, the usual quarter-hourly chimes have been silenced, with the bongs only being heard on special occasions, including New Year's Eve.