Fiona Falkiner is a plus size model known for her incredible figure and to-die-for curves.

But like many women, the 36-year-old struggles with cellulite, and on Sunday she decided to do something about it.

The TV host shared a short clip to Instagram Stories in which she was undergoing a fat-reducing treatment.

'I cried about it': Plus size model Fiona Falkiner (pictured) underwent a fat-reducing treatment after struggling with cellulite, sharing video of the procedure to Instagram on Sunday

In the clip, Fiona lies on a table in a cosmetician's office while a medical instrument is applied to the back of her legs.

Across the screen, she wrote, 'cellulite be gone!', and tagged the Body Catalyst clinic, where she was getting the work done.

Fiona had a cellulite-busting procedure called The Dalyance, which uses a combination of cavitation (a kind of pressure) and radio frequency to destroy fat.

Getting it done: Fiona had a cellulite-busting procedure called The Dalyance, which uses a combination of cavitation (a kind of pressure) and radio frequency to destroy fat

Changes: The non-surgical procedure is said to, 'liquefy fat cells and stimulate the production of collagen and elastin'

The non-surgical procedure is said to, 'liquefy fat cells and stimulate the production of collagen and elastin'.

On Saturday, Fiona also took to Instagram to share a bikini photo and explain her reasons for having the treatment in an emotional post.

She wrote: 'My whole adult life I have had cellulite, in my teens I cried about it, in my 20s I tried to hide it, in my 30s I accept it.

Fiona also shared this bikini photo and explained: 'My whole adult life I have had cellulite, in my teens I cried about it, in my 20s I tried to hide it, in my 30s I accept it'

She added: 'It does not matter what size I am it has always been there. So when [I was offered some] non surgical treatments aimed at cellulite reduction I thought why not'

Fiona concluded: 'If it works fantastic if not I will continue living with it. So here goes to 10 weeks of treatments!'

'It does not matter what size I am it has always been there. So when @mybodycatalyst reached out and offered some non surgical treatments aimed at cellulite reduction I thought why not.

'If it works fantastic if not I will continue living with it. So here goes to 10 weeks of treatments! Will let you know the results'.

The beauty may be preparing for her upcoming wedding, as Fiona announced her engagement to Hayley Willis in April, after 10 months of dating.