Jeremy McConnell has hit back at claims he left his dog 'too close' to his newborn daughter Storm in a cute snap, shared to his Instagram account last week.

The CBB star, 29, uploaded the adorable image of his chihuahua Patsy and his three-week-old baby girl rested on his sofa, but was slammed by a social media user for placing his child next to his pet pooch.

Responding to the criticism, the reality TV personality commented: 'Educate yourself if anything it strengthens there immune system.' [sic]

Having his say: Jeremy McConnell has hit back at claims he left his dog 'too close' to his newborn daughter Storm in a cute snap, shared to his Instagram account last week

Exposing your child to pets and germs at an early age could reduce their risk of asthma, studies by Uppsala University and the National Institutes of Health have shown in recent years.

Jeremy - who shares Storm with partner Katie McCreath - was met with support from his fans as they praised him for introducing his animal to his little one at an early age.

One wrote: 'The best way to make the pup accept the baby... they’ll have a lovely bond.'

Another agreed: 'How adorable, I've got a labxrottie and a frenchie and they were obsessed with her when we brought her home they dont leave her side now best friends for life.

Dad again: The CBB personality, 29, welcomed his baby girl with Katie McCreath in late November

Fierce reply: Responding to the criticism, the reality TV star commented: 'Educate yourself if anything it strengthens there immune system.' [sic]

'it's so good introducing at such a young age as it also teaches them not to be scared of them and get them use to it and also good for the dogs as otherwise you'll have the dogs thinking they've done wrong for going near baby xx.' [sic]

A third enthused: 'She's so bright and alert bless her. Absolutely beautiful xx', while another added: 'Oh stop it that is hands down the best photo I’ve seen.

'Storm is absolutely gorgeous and her eyes are amazing, what a beauty and of course let’s not forget her big fur sister. xx.' [sic]

The doting father also expressed his gratitude towards his followers for providing him with parenthood advice as he captioned the image: 'DAD! who’s taller ?!

'These two .... I think storm is cheating thank you to everyone for the dog & baby advice .... as you can see it worked well... they are best friends.' [sic]

'It teaches them not to be scared of [animals]': Jeremy was met with support from his fans as they praised him for introducing his animal to his little one at an early age

In addition to his child with his lawyer partner, 35, Jeremy also has a son from his previous relationship with Stephanie Davis, Caben Albi, two, who he admitted he doesn't have a relationship with.

The dad told MailOnline in October: 'I'm not removing myself and forgetting about having a son. I'm a very loving father.'

He also revealed that he's found it difficult to be accepted back into society after being imprisoned for five weeks in 2017.

Jeremy explained: 'A lot of people say I don't care about my child because I'm moving on but what options was I left with? I'm damned if I do and damned if I don't.

Second chances: The model delightedly announced he and his girlfriend were expecting their first child together in July (pictured earlier this year)

'People say to me "Why are you acting like you have just one child?" But there's a time and a place.'

The Irish model delightedly announced he and his girlfriend were expecting their first child together in July.

Jeremy first met solicitor Katie in August 2017 when she represented the TV personality during his trial for assaulting former girlfriend Stephanie, 26, the CBB star and the solicitor moved in together eight months later.