Laura Whitmore spoke on her 5 Live radio show on Sunday about her 'new job' - taking over from Caroline Flack on Love Island, season six.

'I've got a new job!' Laura, 34, said on the air, as she played the Love Island theme tune, which she admitted 'excites' her now, but will likely cause her to feel 'terror' closer to the show's transmission.

'It starts very very soon,' she went on. 'I am in disbelief and shock. It doesn't affect this radio show too much. I will be flying back and forth from South Africa, hosting [spin-off show] Aftersun on a Monday, live from London, and then doing this radio show on Sundays.'

Woman of the hour: Laura Whitmore spoke on her 5 Live radio show on Sunday about her 'new job' - taking over from Caroline Flack on Love Island, season six

She went on: 'I want to say a big thank you to everyone who has messaged me. It's kind of a dream come true but I wish it was under better circumstances.'

Laura will fill in for Caroline on the ITV2 series, which returns in less than a month for a winter edition.

Caroline, 40, stepped down last week after she was charged with assaulting her boyfriend, Lewis Burton, 27, after an altercation at her London home.

Laura, who is the girlfriend of Love Island's voiceover provider Iain Stirling, 31, will take the reins from Caroline, who is only thought to be sitting out for the one series - which will be set in Cape Town across January and February.

Drama: Caroline, 40, stepped down last week after she was charged with assaulting her boyfriend, Lewis Burton, 27, after an altercation at her London home

New gig: 'I've got a new job!' Laura, 34, said on the air, as she played the Love Island theme tune, which she admitted 'excites' her now, but will likely cause her to feel 'terror' closer to the show's transmission

Laura arrived at the BBC on Sunday to present her radio show looking pleased with herself as she strutted into the central London studios, wrapped up against the Christmas chill.

She wore a slick black trench coat over tight leather trousers and chunky heeled boots.

She wore a festive sweater with 'Love' emblazoned across the front - perhaps a nod to her new presenting gig.

She added grey earmuffs and carried a leopard print bag over her shoulder, also clutching a bottle of wine in a festive bag - presumably a Christmas gift for someone at the office.

Exciting times: 'It starts very very soon,' she went on. 'I am in disbelief and shock. It doesn't affect this radio show too much. I will be flying back and forth from South Africa, hosting [spin-off show] Aftersun on a Monday, live from London, and then doing this radio show on Sundays'

Strutting her stuff: Laura arrived at the BBC on Sunday to present her radio show looking pleased with herself as she strutted into the central London studios, wrapped up against the Christmas chill

She wore her honeyed locks in waves around her features, which were highlighted with a dewy slick of make-up and a bright red pop to her pout. She wore two gold medallions to complete the look.

The Irish star was feeling playful with her followers as she took to Instagram on Saturday and penned - 'Pre Love Island diet going well' - over a snap of a vast portion of fish and chips while wandering around a Christmas market.

Shortly after she tucked in to her delicious treat, she shared a snap with Hollywood star Luke Evans ahead of her latest weekly show on 5 Live, who appeared on Sunday's broadcast in a pre-recorded interview.

All wrapped up: She wore a slick black trench coat over tight leather trousers and chunky heeled boots. She wore a festive sweater with 'Love' emblazoned across the front - perhaps a nod to her new presenting gig

Pleased with herself: She wore her honeyed locks in waves around her features, which were highlighted with a dewy slick of make-up and a bright red pop to her pout

Laura thanked fans for their support with a lengthy Instagram post on Saturday.

She penned: 'So the last 24hrs have been a bit crazy! Thank you for all the messages. 2020 is going to be a good year.'

No doubt Laura, who has a squeaky clean image, was a safe choice for ITV who won't want to take any risks with who they hire in Caroline's place.

On Tuesday, it was first reported that Laura met with bosses in secret to discuss the possibility of the role, following Caroline's decision to quit.

Post-show: Mollie King was seen exiting the studios after her weekend show, as Laura made her way inside

Off for Christmas: Mollie and co-host Matt Edmonson left the BBC together

Laura is no stranger to presenting a Love Island-esque reality show for ITV, as she presented Survival Of The Fittest in January 2018.

Presenter Caroline first broke her silence on Instagram earlier in the week and wrote: 'There have been a significant number of media reports and allegations in regard to my personal life.

'While matters were not as have been reported I am committed to co-operating with the appropriate authorities and I can't comment further on these matters until the legal process is over.

Chilly: They wrapped up as they braved the cold

Joyous: Laura interviewed Hollywood star Luke Evans for her Sunday radio show

'However Love Island has been my world for the last five years, it's the best show on telly. In order not to detract attention from the upcoming series I feel the best thing I can do is stand down from Series 6.

'I want to wish the incredible team working on the show a fantastic series in Cape Town.'

Caroline continued: 'And on a really personal level. I have never experienced such kindness and love in my whole life.

'Thanks for all the messages': She penned - 'So the last 24hrs have been a bit crazy! Thank you for all the messages. 2020 is going to be a good year'

Altercation: Caroline stepped down as the host of season six on Tuesday after her assault charge following a row with her boyfriend Lewis Burton [pictured in October]

'Not just from friends and family who are always the greatest but also from total strangers who send messages to me offering help and understanding... Please know that I see them and my boyfriend Lewis. I love you x.'

An ITV spokesperson told MailOnline shortly after her post: 'ITV has a long standing relationship with Caroline and we understand and accept her decision.

'We will remain in contact with her over the coming months about future series of Love Island.'

The former X Factor host is expected to appear on bail at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court on Monday, December 23.