Simon Cowell continued to show off his dramatic weight loss as he enjoyed his sun-soaked Christmas getaway in Barbados.

The X Factor boss, 60, went shirtless on the beach before enjoying a jet ski ride on Saturday with his partner Lauren Silverman, 42.

Simon donned white boardshorts for his afternoon of watersports, displaying his newly toned physique after losing more than 20lbs in weight.

Weight loss: Simon Cowell, 60, went shirtless on the beach in Barbados before enjoying a jet ski ride on Saturday

His new figure came after he embarked on a vegan diet earlier this year, which he took on to better keep up with his five-year-old son Eric.

The music mogul - who enjoys a break at the same resort every Christmas - looked toned and tanned as he boarded his jet ski.

Showcasing his trim frame, Simon seemed content on his vacation, despite leaving a little later this year thanks to his series X Factor: The Band only finishing on Sunday.

He held an orange life vest in his hand as he headed towards the vehicle, putting it on just before he set off across the crystalline water.

Fit and healthy: Simon donned white shorts for his afternoon of watersports, displaying his newly taut physique after he lost more than 20lbs in weight

Meanwhile his partner Lauren relaxed on a boat as she watched her man speeding across the waves.

She put on a stylish display in her zig zag black and gold swimsuit which showcased her peachy posterior and trim frame.

The socialite donned black sunglasses and pulled her brunette tresses back into a ponytail for her water adventures.

All aboard: The music mogul - who enjoys a break at the same resort every Christmas - looked toned and tanned as he boarded his jet ski

What a difference a year makes: Simon wasted no time hitting the beach and swiftly whipping his shirt off to showcase his sensational weight loss on Wednesday [left] after switching to a vegan lifestyle [pictured right, exactly one year ago]

Relaxation: Meanwhile his partner Lauren relaxed on a boat as she watched her man speeding across the waves

Simon previously told the Ellen DeGeneres Show: 'I went to see this doctor in London. We did some tests. And then a month later he said, "You have the worst diet I've ever met from any patient."

'So I went, "Okay, out of the smoking, the drinking, and diet, what do I have to drop?" And he said, "The diet." So I said, "I'm in!"

And he revealed he had actually named his new diet after his son, who enjoys water and tucking into a plate of raw vegetables.

Slim: His new figure came after he embarked on a vegan diet earlier this year, which he took on to better keep up with his five-year-old son Eric

Now: The X Factor head judge revealed a noticeably slender physique while greeting onlookers at Heart Radio studios in November. Then: Pictured in September 2018

He said: 'It's like the Eric diet because he actually, apart from ice cream, he actually likes water. I mean, who likes water? And his raw vegetables. So I'm on like, the Eric Cowell diet.'

Earlier this year, the music mogul's Britain's Got Talent co-judge Amanda Holden credited a different reason behind Simon's weight loss, claiming it was his switch to 'skinny lager'.

Talking on Good Morning Britain to Piers Morgan, she said: 'He’s drinking lightweight beers, that’s the secret. And I tasted it because I thought it was gonna taste, like, naff. Actually it’s quite decent. You could take a tip from him!'

Quite a difference: He revealed he had actually named his new diet after his son, who enjoys water and tucking into a plate of raw vegetables

Simon also spoke about cutting down on alcohol earlier this year, he told Extra: 'I went to see this guy who’s very well-known. And he said to me, after doing some blood work, "You can’t have red meat, dairy, sugar, bread or gluten."

'I’m thinking, "What about alcohol?" And he said, "Maybe not quite as much as you had before."

'And I did it and I stuck to it and it’s easy.'

