An alleged ISIS recruiter has been living on unemployment benefits in London, it has emerged after he was charged by Portuguese authorities.

Cassimo Ture is a suspected member of the so-called 'Leyton Cell', an alleged Portuguese gang in east London which has been linked to notorious terrorist Jihadi John and to the kidnapping of British journalist John Cantlie.

A 218-page indictment filed by Portuguese prosecutors accuses Ture of 'providing fundamental support to terrorist organisations' and 'rejoicing' in terrorist activities with his fellow gang members.

His brother, Sadjo Ture, is also a suspected gang member and twice travelled to the Middle East, it is believed.

Several of the gang members are dead but Cassimo is still living in London with a wife and son, receiving jobseeker's allowance and child benefit, The Times reports.

Suspect: Cassimo Ture (pictured) is an alleged member of the so-called 'Leyton Cell', an alleged Portuguese terrorist gang in east London

Portuguese prosecutors allege that the gang was linked to the 'Beatles', the group of terrorists including 'Jihadi John' who carried out beheadings in ISIS propaganda videos.

Jihadi John, real name Mohammed Emwazi, appeared in a number of videos in which captives including British aid workers David Haines and Alan Henning were murdered by the terror group. He was killed in a US air strike in 2015.

Portuguese prosecutors allege that the gang was linked to the 'Beatles', the group of terrorists led by 'Jihadi John' (pictured)

Fellow 'Beatles' Alexanda Kotey and El Shafee Elsheikh are in US custody while the fourth, Aine Davis, was jailed in Turkey in 2017.

Portuguese authorities also claim that the group was linked to the kidnapping of British journalist John Cantlie in Syria in 2012.

Cantlie was captured in July 2012 but rescued by members of the Free Syrian Army, only to be kidnapped again later that year.

A freed ISIS prisoner said he suffered 'weeks and weeks' of torture after he tried to escape his terrorist prisoners.

Earlier this year the UK government said it believed Cantlie was still alive, but said it stuck by its policy of not paying ransom for hostages.

Ture himself is suspected of helping ISIS terrorists and heir brides travel to the former 'caliphate', which crumbled to nothing earlier this year.

The indictment claims that Ture 'provided fundamental support to terrorist organisations through the receipt and distribution of money'.

Portuguese authorities also claim that the group was linked to the kidnapping of British journalist John Cantlie (pictured in an ISIS hostage video) in Syria in 2012

Ture is also alleged to have provided 'logistical support in the recruitment of and adherence of recruits to the Islamic State'.

He moved to the UK in around 2005, it is believed.

The newspaper said that a reporter had visited Ture's home but was turned away by his wife, who claimed to know nothing about the allegations.

Another cell member is claimed to have trained 1,000 ISIS recruits in three months and travelled to Syria despite being stopped at Luton airport.

Portuguese newspaper Espresso reports that Ture was interrogated in Portugal earlier this year, but he is not in custody.

Ture is the only one of the eight suspected gang members known to be living freely, the Portuguese report says, with two others in custody and five dead or missing.