A 26-year-old female Zipcar passenger has died while the female driver fights for her life in hospital after a fireball crash with a National Express coach in south London.

The casualty, who died less than 40 minutes after the crash at 4.30am, was travelling in the rear seat of the grey VW Polo. The driver remains in a critical condition.

A National Express passenger has been rushed to hospital with minor injuries, while a fourth person was treated at the scene.

Flames engulfed both vehicles after they slammed into each other on Queenstown Road, Battersea.

The road remains closed in both directions this morning as police continue making enquiries into the crash.

A 26-year-old female Zipcar passenger has died and the female driver has been taken to hospital after their car collided with a National Express bus on Queenstown road, Battersea, at 4.30am. Pictured above is the flaming Zipcar and coach A firefighter is pictured fighting to extinguish the flames

A fearless firefighter risks their life to extinguish the flames in the early hours of this morning

A National Express passenger was also rushed to hospital for minor injuries, while a fourth person was treated at the scene for minor injuries. Pictured above is the burnt out husk of the bus. A road closure remains in place

Horrifying footage showed the two vehicles collide and burst into flames.

Three ambulances rushed to the scene at 4.32am, along with an advanced paramedic, team leader, incident response officer and Hazardous Area Response Team, said the London Ambulance Service.

Two fire engines and a fire rescue unit also rushed to the scene from Chelsea and Lambeth.

The London Ambulance Service said in a statement that despite their best efforts one patient 'sadly died at the scene'.

'We took a second patient to a major trauma centre as a priority. We treated two further patients for minor injuries: we took one of them to hospital and the other was discharged at the scene,' they said.

Emergency services at the scene putting out the flames following the crash

Three ambulances rushed to the scene alongside two fire engines and the Met police. The vehicles are pictured after they burst into flames

The bus is pictured here shortly after the collision with the Zipcar

A man sweeps wreckage from the side of the burnt out National Express bus in Battersea, south London

The bus had been travelling from Gatwick to London Victoria. National Express confirmed in a statement that one of their passengers was taken to hospital.

'One passenger was taken to hospital and all other passengers were safely transferred to a replacement vehicle for onward travel,' they said.

'Emergency services attended the scene and we will continue to provide every assistance with the ongoing investigation. Our thoughts are with the family and friends of the occupant of the car, who sadly passed away.'

Zipcar, which offers a car sharing service, said in a statement that it was aware of a fatal incident involving one of its cars.

'We are shocked and saddened by this news,' said the company, 'and our deepest condolences go out to those affected'.

'We are supporting the Metropolitan Police with their investigation in every way possible.'

National Express said in a statement that one passenger was taken to hospital while all others were safely transferred to a replacement bus

A man is pictured sweeping away ash from the side of the bus in Battersea this morning

The bus caught fire after the car crashed into the front of the vehicle at 4.30am. National Express said that only one passenger was taken to hospital

A travel update tweeted by TfL this morning said that Queenstown road is closed between Chelsea Embankment and Prince of Wales Drive. It asked drivers to use alternative routes.

Bus routes 44, 137 and 452 in the area have been diverted via Nine Elms Lane, Vauxhall Bridge and Grosvenor road.