Curtis Pritchard has claimed he will be too busy to spend time with his girlfriend Maura Higgins this Christmas.

The Love Island star, 23, told Lorraine Kelly on Monday morning he will be kept 'quite busy' with his role as Dick Whittington in a pantomime in High Wycombe until January 5, as he joked: 'I think I have a day off in March next year.'

His brother, Strictly Come Dancing professional AJ Pritchard, 25, quipped: 'Maybe more like April', as the pair appeared on the ITV1 show to speak about their respective pantomime roles.

'I think I have a day off in March': Curtis Pritchard has claimed he will be too busy to spend time with his girlfriend Maura Higgins this Christmas (pictured together last month)

Maura, 29, is hard at work as she prepares to compete in Dancing On Ice, which starts on January 5 - the date her boyfriend finishes his show.

Curtis explained: 'We haven't had time to spend with everyone, and Maura. I haven't seen Maura in a little bit.

'We're lucky because we have mobile phones so we can stay in contact so easily but it is a shame.'

AJ is in a slightly better situation as he plays Peter Pan alongside his girlfriend Abbie Quinnen in Dunstable.

'We are quite busy': The former Love Islander, 23, told Lorraine he will be kept 'quite busy' with his role as Dick Whittington in a pantomime in High Wycombe until January 5

He added: 'The great thing is our family. Mum and dad watched you on Sunday, they came to me on Monday. I'm doing the pantomime with my girlfriend Abbie. We love being busy.'

Curtis and grid girl Maura coupled up on this summer's series of Love Island but only made their relationship official two months after the show ended.

Curtis' Lorraine appearance comes after he revealed he was nervous to ask Maura to be his girlfriend.

Speaking exclusively to MailOnline in October, Curtis said: 'I was nervous. I’m not a person who sleeps around a lot or had a lot of girlfriends.

'I've only ever really had one [girlfriend] before that and then what happened in the villa happened. I was nervous to ask because I didn't really know how to do that stuff.'

Incredible: Maura, 29, is hard at work as she prepares to compete in Dancing On Ice, which starts on January 5 - the date her boyfriend finishes his show

'I haven't seen Maura in a little bit': Curtis added: 'We haven't had time to spend with everyone, and Maura. I haven't seen Maura in a little bit'

He has previously admitted the pair sometimes struggle to spend time together with their hectic schedules.

Curtis said: 'Absolutely, it is [difficult]. She is very busy. It's nice in a way because we miss each other and we can’t wait to see each other.

'I saw her today but I hadn't seen her for the rest of the week. I'll be seeing her this weekend and that'll be nice.'

Unlikely couple Maura and Curtis got together in the Love Island villa after the dancer publicly ditched his 'half-girlfriend' Amy Hart, 27, leaving her heartbroken.