She's the Australian funnywoman known for her sense of humour.

And on Sunday, Rebel Wilson, 39, kicked off the festive season by sharing a snap straddling a Santa figurine with a sweet message for her fans.

'Annnnnnd that's me peace-ing out for 2019!' she began.

'Without you guys I wouldn't be here': Actress Rebel Wilson (pictured) straddled Santa as she sent her thoughts to Australia and thanked her fans for their ongoing support

She continued: 'Thank you to everyone who has been a part of my epic 2019, I appreciate you so much. Thank you to everyone who's supported me from afar - without you guys I wouldn't be here.'

In the Instagram post, Rebel is seen flashing a peace sign with each hand while she posed with the Christmas icon.

The LA-based actress also took the opportunity to address her concerns about the devastating fires currently burning in Australia.

Supportive: The LA based actress also took the opportunity to address her concerns about the devastating fires currently burning her home country

'Merry Christmas everyone. I am thinking of everyone in Australia - our government really has to get it together - our country is beautiful and we need to keep it clean. Come on!' she urged her followers.

Rebel's post comes after the Cats star recently shared the new trailer for her upcoming Channel Seven competitive dog styling series, Pooch Perfect.

Pooch Perfect will feature 10 professional dog stylists battling it out for a $100,000 cash prize.

It's coming! Rebel's post comes after, the Cats star recently shared the new trailer for her upcoming Channel Seven competitive dog styling series, Pooch Perfect

The contestants will compete in challenges judged by an expert panel.

The comedian recently told 7News that she has some experience in the industry, having worked as a junior dog handler.

'My childhood was full of weekend adventures at dog shows all around Australia and my family had a business selling pet products out of a caravan - such as leads, treats and the best dog styling equipment available,' said Rebel.