Geri Horner got into the Christmas spirit on Saturday as she treated her children to an early visit from Santa Claus.

The Spice Girl, 47, shared a plethora of videos and images on Instagram of the family meeting Santa, after she claimed she was accused of being 'grinchy'.

Proving she was far from 'grinchy', the star sat next to St. Nick and joined her children Bluebell, 13, and son Montague, two, as well as husband Christian's daughter Olivia, in a sweet festive sing-a-long.

Merry Christmas: Geri Horner got into the Christmas spirit on Saturday as she treated her children to an early visit from Santa Claus

Donning a lace white mini dress and white, pointed slouchy boots, the Wannabe hitmaker was perfectly dressed for the season and for the special visit.

In one adorable image posted to her page, Geri could be seen clutching Montague and Olivia as they were transfixed by Santa.

While on her stories, they could all be seen in a rousing sing-a-long while Santa played a concertina.

Her F1 Boss husband Christian, 46, also got into the spirit of things as he larked around with Santa, while Geri asked: 'Naughty or nice list?'

Santa baby: The Spice Girl, 47, shared a plethora of videos and images on Instagram of the family meeting Santa, after she claimed she was accused of being 'grinchy'

She also shared an image of her son and step-daughter being treated to a present from the man in the red suit.

Christian and Geri, who started dating in 2014, married in a star-studded ceremony in Bedfordshire on 15 May 2015.

Geri and Christian hosted the likes of Emma Bunton, Amanda Holden and Myleene Klass at a ceremony at St Mary's Church in Woburn, before hosting their reception at nearby Woburn Abbey.

Jolly good time: While on her stories, they could all be seen in a rousing sing-a-long while Santa played a concertina

Best behaviour? Her F1 Boss husband Christian, 46, also got into the spirit of things as he larked around with Santa, while Geri asked: 'Naughty or nice list?'

Bluebell is Geri's child from her relationship with ex Sacha Gervasi, while Olivia is Christian's child from his relationship with Beverley Allen. The couple welcomed Montague in January 2017.

Earlier this year, Geri took part in the Spice Girls' reunion tour which saw the group perform across the UK and Ireland.

The group closed a sold-out three-night run at Wembley Stadium by inviting their mothers and children on stage.