Even with a new manager and Cristiano Ronaldo in their ranks, Juventus will not need reminding of the haunting memories they earned in the Italian Super Cup two years ago.

There they were, Massimiliano Allegri's side, at a partisan Lazio Stadio Olympico, expected to add another title to the sensational trophy cabinet.

Everything was against them and when Ciro Immobile netted twice, either side of half-time, it looked like Italian football's dominant side would fall.

Juventus are looking to win consecutive Super Cup titles in Saudi Arabia over the weekend

But Lazio will look to repeat their 2017 heroics when they beat Juventus in stoppage time

Allegri became animated, urging his side to respond and two goals by Paulo Dybala in the final five minutes levelled it up dramatically. The Stadio Olimpico crowd was stunned.

But with 90+3 on the board, there was Alessandro Murgia to win it, placing the trophy in Lazio hands as Juventus crumbled in Rome.

That pain still lingers, however faintly after they beat AC Milan to win the Super Cup in Saudi Arabia last season. And so it is poignant that they return to Riyadh with Lazio as their opponent.

A real chance of redemption - as well as a trophy.

The Italian Supercoppa has been running since the 1988 season with Serie A winner taking on the Coppa Italia winner - or runner-up if the same team won the league and cup.

Prior to this decade, the tournament had only been held outside of Italy on four occasions: Washington D.C (1993), Tripoli, Libya (2002), New Jersey (2003) and Beijing, China (2009).

But in this decade, Italy has only hosted the match on three occasions, one of which Lazio won two years ago.

Ciro Immobile netted twice in the 3-2 win in the 2017 final when the sides last met in Super Cup

Paulo Dybala scored twice in the final five minutes to set up a frantic Super Cup finale in Rome

MATCH FACTS Date: Sunday 22 December Time: 16:45 (BST) Venue: King Saud University Stadium TV Channel: BT Sport 2 Referee: Gianpaolo Calavarese

China, Qatar and now Saudi Arabia have clamored to win the hosting rights and it is proving a lucrative mid-season tour for the sides involved.

Lazio will be buoyed by their recent successes over Juventus, not just their 2017 triumph but also their recent Serie A victory over them to haul themselves into title contention.

The difference, as it often is, will be Cristiano Ronaldo, a man gunning for back-to-back Super Cup titles with the Turin-based side.

Ronaldo is targeting his 30th career title and no team has won the tournament more than Juventus (right). It was Ronaldo who proved the match winner last season when his goal that separated Juve and Milan.

'Ronaldo is above everyone else, that is evident,' Juventus boss Maurizio Sarri said.

'He is a player who has won the Ballon d'Or five times. Therefore it seems clear to me that we are talking about an absolutely top player. But that does not mean we will win automatically every time just because he have him.

Cristiano Ronaldo is attempting to win his 30th career trophy and defend the Italian Super Cup

Maurizio Sarri is attempting to win his first trophy since becoming Juventus manager

'He can give us an advantage, but he needs, like any player, a team that works together totally.'

There is plenty to keep an eye on, whether Immobile or Ronaldo delivers the most, whether Sarri gets the better of the managerial battle or whether the difference maker will come from the bench.

Juventus find themselves in a tough title battle this season and winning the first trophy of the season would get the wheels turning for a squad that can always use renewed belief.

For Lazio, they are outsiders looking in on this title bid and should they leave Saudi Arabia with gold - rather than silver - medals around their neck, nobody will be able to convince they can't go on and add the Scudetto come the end of the season.