Martha Kalifatidis and Michael Brunelli enjoyed a raw vegan meal on Sunday, and now the pair are considering adopting the diet full time.

Martha, 31, and boyfriend Michael, 28, took to Instagram Stories to share clips filmed at Shoku Iku, an organic raw cafe in Melbourne.

They shared a green smoothie, before moving onto main meals of deconstructed raw vegan pizza, ordered by Michael, and a salad with dips, ordered by Martha.

'We should do it!' MAFS' Martha Kalifatidis (left) took to Instagram Stories on Sunday to reveal she and boyfriend Michael Brunelli (right) want to try a raw vegan diet. They tested the cuisine on the weekend starting with this green smoothie

Former Married At First Sight star Martha gushed over the meals, saying they 'looked insane'.

Afterwards, she was so impressed, she took to Instagram stories again to wonder aloud if she and Michael should become raw vegans.

A raw vegan diet involves consuming no animal products, and eating only raw foods that have not been cooked at high temperatures.

Looks healthy! They shared clips filmed at Shoku Iku, an organic raw cafe in Melbourne. Micheal ordered a deconstructed vegan pizza (left) while Martha had a salad with dips (right)

Should we? Afterwards, Martha was so impressed, she took to Instagram stories again to wonder aloud if she and Michael should become raw vegans, and asked fans to weigh in

Not keen? Michael, who reclined in a banana lounge in the backyard, seemed dubious over the idea. 'There's no way,' he said, shaking his head, before adding, 'Our relationship wouldn't last!'

However, Michael, who reclined in a banana lounge in the backyard, seemed dubious over the idea.

'There's no way,' he said, shaking his head, before adding, 'Our relationship wouldn't last!'

Smiling, he added: 'Day three, I would be in the McDonald's car park, binge eating Quarter Pounders, nuggets'.

Michael continued, looking exasperated: 'I could go without meat. But why take eggs off me?'

Prefers another lifestyle: Even as he agreed to take part in the experiment if the fans voted 'yes', Michael shook his head 'no' vigorously, indicating he hoped for a 'no' outcome

Martha argued: 'No hon, I think we should try. We are going to try for one week' then she asked her fans, 'Should we do it for a week, guys?'

Her boyfriend then agreed he would do it, only if the fans voted for them to go ahead, and Martha added a Yes/No poll to the screen for their followers to decide.

However, even as he agreed to take part in the experiment if the fans voted 'yes', Michael shook his head 'no' vigorously, indicating he hoped for a 'no' outcome.

The pair met on the set of Married At First Sight last year, where they were paired for an experimental, but not legally binding marriage. They've been going strong as a couple ever since.