A mother tricked her two sons into thinking it was three mischievous Christmas elf dolls who covered her entire car in Christmas wrapping paper.

Emma Monterio, 37, from Bilton, Hull decided to to kick start the Christmas celebrations by sneaking outside at four o'clock in the morning to cover her family car with wrapping paper.

The stay-at-home mum has two naughty elves called Gobby Gordon and ASBO Antonio and one good elf called Lovely, which she uses to encourage her sons to 'be good'.

When Lennox, ten and Anton, five, saw the family car – they came up with an explanation that made the prank even funnier for Emma.

'They said, "Lovely the elf must have locked the other two out and they had to cause mischief'.

Mother-of-two Emma Monterio, 37, tricked her two sons into thinking it was three mischievous Elves on the Shelf who covered her entire car in Christmas wrapping paper

Emma's sons Lennox, ten (pictured) and Anton five, were thrilled to discover that their mothers Mini Cooper had been wrapped up

When the children saw the family car – they immediately assumed their naughty Christmas elves were to blame

Emma continued: 'The elves have been "visiting" for four years now and the boys really believe it is them.

'I saw posts on Facebook people were wrapping stuff up so I thought I would get involved.

'The boys were shocked when they looked out the window and immediately thought of a story which I went along with.

'They found in hilarious and then ran out to pull all the paper off.'

Emma says she uses her elves to encourage sons Lennox (pictured left) and Anton (pictured right) to behave

The stay-at-home mum has two naughty elves called Gobby Gordon and ASBO Antonio (pictured) and one good elf called Lovely - who were blamed for the crime

Emma wanted to kick start the Christmas celebrations by sneaking outside at four o'clock in the morning to cover her family car with wrapping paper

'I didn't want to be wasteful, so thought it would be best to park the car right in front of the window and just cover where you can see.

'The frost ruined the paper, so we put it in the recycling bin.'

Emma opted to have three elves because she originally started playing 'The Elf on the Shelf' pranks with a teddy version but as the boys got older, she purchased one each for them.

The mother told that although the boys aren't perfect, the elves do help to influence the boys' behaviour in a positive way

The teddy elf is 'Lovely' who 'vanishes' when the boys misbehave and leaves a letter behind explaining how they must be 'good' for it to return.

She adds: 'They respect the elves and look forward to their visits, so try their best to be good.'

It's not just wrapping up the car the Elves have been up to. They've also been busy making some questionable 'homemade apple juice' and squirting mustard and brown sauce around the kitchen.

It's not just wrapping up the car the Elves have been up too as they've been busy making some questionable 'homemade apple juice'

The naughty pair were also caught squirting brown sauce and mustard all over the kitchen sink

The naughty elves even kidnapped fellow elf Lovely and leaving him to the mercy of several LEGO figurines

The naughty elves even kidnapped fellow elf Lovely and leaving him to the mercy of several LEGO figurines.

The mother told that although the boys aren't perfect, the elves do help to influence their behaviour .

She told: 'But once they weren't so I hid Lovely and another time all of them and Antonio said 'I've got to sort my behaviour out before Santa comes'.

'I could do with an elf all year because they help out around the house by putting things away and emptying the dishwasher.'