New South Wales and Queensland are in the thick of a bushfire and drought crisis.

And Australian singer Pete Murray voiced his concerns, in an interview with The Daily Telegraph's Confidential on Friday.

The 50-year-old said environmental change starts with people becoming 'a lot more conscious' and thinking about the future.

'I'm not really sure what the answer is': Singer Pete Murray, 50, (pictured) revealed his concerns for Australia in an interview with The Daily Telegraph

'From what you can tell, things are definitely changing and they don't seem to be getting any better,' Pete said. 'It's scary, I'm not really sure what the answer is.'

Rather than 'pointing the finger at politics', the Byron Bay-based artist suggested environmental change starts with focussing on the future, rather than the now.

'People are starting to become a lot more conscious,' he said, adding that 'the older generations are also becoming a lot more conscious about everything they do.'

Pete said it's encouraging to see people making recycling a priority, and switching to reusable bottles and drink straws.

'People are starting to become a lot more conscious': Rather than 'pointing the finger at politics', Pete suggested environmental change starts with focussing on the future

Starts at home: Pete said it's encouraging to see people making recycling a priority, and switching to reusable bottles and drink straws

A heatwave on Tuesday and Wednesday this week added to dangerous fire conditions, with more than 170 fires burning in New South Wales and Queensland.

Australia's most populous state of New South Wales declared a seven-day state of emergency on Thursday as oppressive conditions fanned around 100 wildfires.

The last state of emergency ran for seven days in mid-November amid 'catastrophic' fire risk and was the first implemented in New South Wales since 2013.

Bushfire crisis: New South Wales declared a seven-day state of emergency on Thursday as oppressive conditions fanned around 100 wildfires. Pictured: Fires raging at Gospers Mountain, NSW

The climate crisis is having devastating effects on marine life, with the Great Barrier Reef and other coral ecosystems under threat.

According to the World Wildlife Foundation, 'warmer temperatures are leading to the melting of polar ice caps, resulting in the dumping of fresh water into the ocean and raised sea levels.

'Such rises threaten coastal communities, low-lying Pacific Islands and ecosystems such as estuaries and marshlands'.