The latest in a long line of brainteasers sweeping the web has left the nation baffled - and it may just be the hardest one yet.

The colourful graphic, created by Easy Bathrooms, a national retailer of bathroom and tile products, challenges puzzlers to find the rubber duck with the Santa suit and beard.

But due to the snowy and busy scene, the hard-to-find duck, also known as 'Father Quackmas,' may be trickier to find than you think.

The designer has revealed the current record stands at an impressive 42 seconds, but can you find it any faster?

Scroll down for reveal

The latest brainteaser, created by Easy Bathrooms, challenges puzzlers to find the duck with the santa suit and beard

The mountainous landscape contains several intruders in a bid to throw you off the scent - including hundreds of other ducks in the likes of red scarves and Santa hats.

If you're struggling and are keen to be put out of your misery, then look away now as all is about to be revealed!

If you look closely, you'll be able to spot 'Father Quckmas' towards the top right-hand side of the image, circled in red.

And it's not the only puzzle which has been leaving players scratching their heads in recent weeks.

'Father Quackmas' can be found towards to top right-hand side of the image, circled in red (pictured)

A spot the difference puzzle sweeping the web has left even the most eagle-eyed of Brits feeling perplexed.

The graphic, created by Canine Cottages, challenges the public to spot the adorable dog lost in a crowd of cheery white polar bears.

With hundreds of creatures in the polar bear pack, the challenge may prove trickier than it first seems.

And with the current record currently standing at 2 minutes and 49 seconds, can you beat the record?

Another brainteaser, created by Canine Cottages, challenges the nation to spot the adorable pooch hidden among the pack of polar bears

Adorable little Frenchie Pierre has joined his humans on a trip to the North Pole to visit Santa Paws, but got distracted by the hundreds of polar bears having a Christmas party in the Arctic.

After deciding to join in with the fun and make some new furry friends, he’s got lost in the crowd - and it’s up to you to find him.

Shannon Keary from Canine Cottages said, 'This brainteaser has had us stumped at Canine Cottages HQ! We hope our brainteaser has the public equally as puzzled and gets everyone into the Christmas spirit.'

If you're struggling to find the cute canine, pinpoint your search to the right hand side of the image - or if you're really stuck, you can find the answer circled below.

The adorable little dog can be found tucked in between the polar bears on the right hand side of the image

Another graphic, created by Great Rail Journeys, challenges the public to spot the eight differences in the two Swiss landscapes.

Both snaps feature a train journey across a mountainous landscape, but while both may look identical, there are hidden differences between the two.

And with a current record of an impressive 58 seconds to beat, the pressure is really on!

Scroll down for reveal

The latest brainteaser, created by Great Rail Journeys, challenges the nation to spot the eight differences in he two puzzles

The puzzle features the iconic Glacier Express railway, which celebrates its 90th birthday next year.

It has also recently featured on a episode of The World’s Most Scenic Railway Journeys TV series on Channel 5.

The train travels through the Swiss Alps, home to the Matterhorn, the world's most photographed mountain that also appears on the Toblerone packaging.

If you're struggling to find the answer, then take a look at the mountains, buildings and the trees for a clue - and if you're really stuck, you can find the answers circled in red in the image below.

If you're struggling to find the answers, then you can find them circled in red (pictured)

But don't worry if you didn't manage to beat the record, as there have been plenty of other brainteasers sweeping the web for you to try your hand at.

A New Year's Eve-inspired brainteaser has been released to get you in the mood for the upcoming party season.

The puzzle, created by the team from GiftsOnline4U, showcases an ocean of pocket watches which read five minutes to midnight.

However, hidden amongst these clocks is one telling the wrong time, but can you spot it?

The brainteaser, created by the team from GiftsOnline4U, challenges puzzles to find the one clock telling the wrong time (pictured)

According to the creators, the current record to beat is an impressive 9 seconds - so how will you fare?

With hundreds of different colour pocket watches in the mix, the challenge may prove trickier than it first seems.

However, if you're struggling to detect the hidden clock, then try looking for the only one that reads five minutes to two.

Give up? You'll find the sought-after object resides towards the bottom right-hand side of the image.

The answer resides towards the bottom right-hand side of the busy graphic and can be seen circled in red (pictured)

Another has been released to celebrate the start of winter - and it's leaving even the keenest of puzzlers perplexed.

The busy image, created by British, online-based Chemist 4 U, challenges netizens to find the one difference among a busy snow-covered hill.

However, with endless people enjoying the winter season, it may not be as easy as it seems on first glance.

The designers have revealed the current record stands at 27 seconds - but can you do any better?

While the left and right pictures may seem like identical images, there is one sneaky difference between them - but can you find it?

The tricky visual, which also features plenty of families building snowmen, has left even the most eagle-eyed puzzlers scratching their heads.

If you're finding it too tricky to find the difference, then look away now as the answers are imminent...

The difference is a child creating a snowman in the top right-hand corner of the graphic, who disappears in the second image.

The answer is circled in red and resides in the top right hand side of the bright and colourful winter scene

Another graphic, created by Holland's Pies, asks the nation to spot the onion amongst the pies to mark National Comfort Food Day, which was celebrated on Friday 15th November.

But with the nation's much-loved pastry filling the busy image, it may prove trickier than you initially think.

So why not see if you can give it a go and beat the average time of 23 seconds? Remember, the pies the limit!

The brainteaser has been designed following new research which found the third Friday of November is when we officially ditch our diets in favour of our winter comfort food favourites – and of course pies being top of the list!

The latest puzzle (pictured), created by Holland's Pies, challenges the nation to spot the onion amongst a sea of pies

Leanne Holcroft, Brand Manager at Holland's Pies, said: 'We've been baking pies for over 168 years and what better way to celebrate National Comfort Food Day and all things pastry than by challenging your family and friends to our brainteaser?

'With the average time set at 23 seconds, we're looking forward to seeing the record beaten. Our only tip would be to ensure you fuel your brain with a pastry treat, before you embark on the challenge!'

But if you're struggling to find the answer, feast your eyes towards the top left-hand side of the image.

The answer resides towards the top left-hand side of the puzzle and can be seen circled in red (pictured)

With bonfire night a distant memory and Christmas just around the corner, this new brainteaser is sure to get you into the festive spirit.

The tricky puzzle, created by Missy Empire, challenges members of the public to spot the reindeer headband hidden amongst the ocean of Christmas jumpers.

But with an array of festive white and red patterns, it's easy to see why people up and down the nation have been struggling to identity the sought-after item.

The designers have reveled that the current record stands at an impressive 12 seconds - but can you do any better?

Another brainteaser (pictured) challenges puzzlers to find the reindeer headband hidden amongst the ocean of Christmas jumpers

The graphic showcases the most popular style of Christmas Jumpers according to Instagram.

The most popular style of jumpers are those with a character, followed by a traditional style, then those with a slogan.

If you're struggling to find the answer, try concentrating on the bottom left-hand side of the image.

Give up? Scroll down to find the answer circled in black.

The answer can be found circled in black towards the left-hand side of the busy graphic (pictured)

Another, designed by home interiors specialist, Hillarys, asks users to find the camouflaged hedgehogs hidden amongst a leafy background.

But with just their brown spikes and little noses poking out, it could be the trickiest challenge to date.

The creators have revealed the current record stands at an impressive seven seconds - so you've got to be quick!

This brainteaser (pictured) challenges puzzlers to find the camouflaged hedgehogs hidden amongst a leafy background

Hedgehogs are particularly more at risk during this time of year when many homes host Bonfire Night celebrations.

This is because hedgehogs are known for hiding themselves in piles of autumn leaves, twigs and branches, making bonfires the perfect nesting place for hedgehogs.

As a result of this UK hedgehog rescue homes see an influx of injured and burnt hedgehogs around November 5th.

If you're finding the six hidden hedgehogs too hard to find, then keep on scrolling below for the answer.

If you struggled to find the answers, look no further. All six are circled in red above (pictured)

A further which has left puzzlers stumped is one released for pet owners across the nation - so cats off if you can complete it!

The mind-muddling image, created by NaturesMenu, challenges members of the public up and down the nation to spot the cat amongst the pigeons.

So, to celebrate our feline friends this National Cat Day on 29th October, why not see if you can beat the average time of 18 seconds?

With hundreds of grey birds taking up the busy graphic, the task may prove more of challenge than you think.

Another brainteaser sweeping the web challenges the nation to find the hidden cat amongst the pigeons (pictured)

Craig Taylor, Managing Director of Natures Menu said: 'What better way to celebrate National Cat Day than by challenging your family and friends to finding the missing kitty amongst the pigeons in our fantastic brainteaser?'

A round of 'appaws' are certainly in order to anyone that can beat the average time set.'

If you're struggling to find the answer, then feast your eyes towards the right-hand side of the image.

The answer is circled in red and can be found towards the right-hand side of the busy graphic (pictured)

A further, created by Holiday Extras, asks netizens to find the European Union flag among the many other patterned beach towels.

But with a large array of navy towels and parasols cleverly concealing the hidden object, it may not be as easy as it first seems.

With the record currently set at 26 seconds - how will you fare when you give it a whirl?

Another brainteaser putting the public to the test asks netizens to find the European Union flag among the many other patterned beach towels (pictured)

The brain teaser was created ahead of Britain's possible exit from the European Union on the 31st October after the company found that 70% of Brits are not sure if their travel insurance covers them if Brexit happens.

In response to this, and given that over a quarter of Brits have already cancelled or postponed their holiday due to Brexit, Holiday Extras has launched a brand-new service called 'Brexit Disruption Cover'.

And if you're finding it near-impossible to find the answer, it's hidden towards the bottom-right of the colourful graphic.