She rose to fame over the summer on the 2019 series of Love Island.

And Molly-Mae Hague has said that she had 'no money at all' before appearing on the hit ITV2 dating series during a candid chat on PrettyLittleThing's podcast PLT: Behind Closed Doors.

The reality star, 20, also admitted that she hasn't 'thought about the gym or a salad once' since the show ended, despite her sharing a vlog three weeks ago claiming to train with her beau Tommy Fury 'every night' and tucking into a lettuce lunch.

Candid: Molly-Mae Hague has said that she had 'no money at all' before appearing on the hit ITV2 dating series during a candid chat on PrettyLittleThing's podcast PLT: Behind Closed Doors

Molly-Mae, who released her own PrettyLittleThing collection earlier this year, said during the podcast that during her career as an influencer, before she appeared on Love Island, she had 'no money at all'.

She confessed: 'As an influencer you have to give off this persona of having a great life... before I went on the show, I didn’t have money at all.

'I think it's really important people know that what you see on Instagram isn’t a true reflection of what’s going on in that person's life.'

She added: 'This time last year, I was living by myself in a flat in Manchester, I had literally no one around me, I was really just trying to create this social media career for myself.'

Love Island: The reality star, 20, also admitted that she hasn't 'thought about the gym or a salad once' since the show ended, despite her sharing a vlog three weeks ago claiming to train with her beau Tommy Fury 'every night' (pictured on Love Island in July)

Talking about her relationship with Tommy, who she met on Love Island over the summer, she gushed that she wants to marry the boxer.

She said: 'We're just so happy right now doing our thing. I've found the person I’m going to marry!'

Molly-Mae, who self-confessed that she was a 'massive gym freak' before she went on Love Island, also claimed that she doesn't think about working out or salads since the show ended.

She said: 'Since I've come off the show, I honestly haven’t thought about the gym once, I haven’t even thought about looking at a salad.

Revelations; Molly-Mae, who released her own PrettyLittleThing collection earlier this year, said during the podcast that during her career as an influencer, before she appeared on Love Island, she had 'no money at all'

Confession: She confessed: 'As an influencer you have to give off this persona of having a great life... before I went on the show, I didn’t have money at all.'

'It's good and bad because I am the happiest I've been completely in my life right now, in my whole 20 years, this is the happiest I've ever been.

'I might not be as confident in my body but do you know what, if I'm happy, that's the most important thing, sometimes we have to change our priorities a little bit.'

Molly-Mae's gym revelation comes after she shared a vlog three weeks ago claiming to train with her beau Tommy 'every night' and enjoying a salad for her lunch.

The influencer, who shared a video called 'DAILY VLOG & WHAT I EAT IN A DAY | AD', shared footage of herself and her boyfriend tucking into delicious-looking salads from Harrods for lunch.

Vlog: Molly-Mae, who self-confessed that she was a 'massive gym freak' before she went on Love Island, also claimed that she doesn't think about working out or salads since the show ended... despite sharing her salad lunch on a vlog three weeks ago (pictured)

'Daily vlog': Molly-Mae's gym revelation comes after she shared a vlog three weeks ago claiming to train with her beau Tommy 'every night' and enjoying a salad for her lunch (pictured)

Molly-Mae said during a trip to London: 'I'm going to have this salad now, I've got lettuce, cucumber, croutons, halloumi, pesto... this is what I'm going to have for lunch.'

While later on in the video, the couple returned to Manchester where they headed to the gym where boxer Tommy was training ahead of his triumphant fight with Prezmyslaw Binienda at London's Copper Box Arena on Saturday.

The reality star revealed she was watching Tommy from a booth, she said: 'I go to the gym with him every night to watch him train and I usually train with him. But tonight I am not, I am shattered.'

Stress: It comes after Molly-Mae revealed life in the spotlight has had a negative impact on her body and she is now suffering from stress-induced eczema (pictured on Love Island in June)

She added: 'I did train this morning so I'm not going to feel too guilty', the couple then went out to enjoy a steak dinner.

It comes after Molly-Mae revealed life in the spotlight has had a negative impact on her body and she is now suffering from stress-induced eczema.

Posting a new video on her YouTube account on Sunday, the reality star shared an insight into her life since leaving the villa in a behind-the-scenes clip.

The TV personality took her fans on a tour around the fake tan factory for her new fake tan brand, FilterbyMollyMae.

Beauty: Posting a new video on her YouTube account on Sunday, the reality star shared an insight into her life since leaving the villa in a behind-the-scenes clip

After seeing her product for the first time, she spoke about the importance of it being vegan and cruelty free.

Molly-Mae discussed why she wanted to make sure the brand worked for 'sensitive skin' following her own recent problems.

She said: 'I've actually got really sensitive skin, I've got eczema.

'I never used to have sensitive skin, but maybe being home the last few months maybe stress has caused me to develop eczema'.

Molly-Mae's PLT: Behind Closed Doors podcast is available to listen on Tuesday.