A care home resident has fulfilled his wish to go skiing for the first time - just a couple of months before his 93rd birthday.

Heartwarming footage shows Robert Trulocke sitting in a specially adapted ski wheelchair, which is steered by a second skier, as he slaloms down a slope.

The 92-year-old, known as Bob, from Witney, Oxfordshire, had always wanted to try skiing - describing it as a 'boyhood ambition' - but thought he had missed his chance.

He was inspired when care home staff encouraged him to pursue his dream.

Heartwarming footage shows Robert Trulocke sitting in a specially adapted ski wheelchair, which is steered by a second skier, as he slaloms down a slope

Staff at Care UK's Millers Grange worked with the Snozone - an indoor real snow resort - in Milton Keynes to make the pensioner's wish come true.

Once on the snow, he used an accessible ski in a sitting position, giving him more stability on the slope.

The 92-year-old, known as Bob, from Witney, Oxfordshire, had always wanted to try skiing

This allowed him to try the slalom - where the skier has to weave in and out of poles - which is a challenge for any beginner.

And once at the bottom, he clearly enjoyed using the chair lift to get back to the top again.

Mr Trulocke said: 'It was fantastic to finally get to ski, especially as I'd given up trying to make it happen myself.

Once on the snow, he used an accessible ski in a sitting position, giving him more stability on the slope

'I wanted to thank everyone who made it possible, particularly the team at Snozone and my friends at Millers Grange who arranged everything. I had a wonderful day that I will never forget.'

His felt 'alive' being able to do the slalom, weaving in and out down the slope.

'Age doesn't have to hold you back from your dreams, and I hope I proved that today.'

Mr Trulocke said: 'It was fantastic to finally get to ski, especially as I'd given up trying to make it happen myself'

Jim Macleod, customer relations manager at Millers Grange, said: 'He was a natural. It's fantastic to see Bob finally getting the opportunity to experience his lifelong dream, especially as he'd long thought it wasn't possible.'

He added how they do not accept that life 'has to be a particular way' and ensure residents have no limitations to pursue activities which help them 'lead independent, fulfilling lives'.

Having always been adventurous, Mr Trulocke and his wife Renee went on a camping trip to Switzerland in their youth.

They drove the 700-mile trip in a Mini, and stayed on the edge of a lake in a tent that was bigger than the car.