Home favourite Adam Scott won the Australian PGA Championship for a second time after a brilliant burst of scoring on the back nine saw him secure a two-shot victory.

The 2013 champion produced a final-round 69 to see off the challenge of New Zealand's Michael Hendry and clinch his 11th European Tour title.

Scott came into the day with a narrow one-stroke lead but a birdie from close range at the first saw him double his advantage.

Adam Scott celebrates following his triumph at the Australian PGA Championship on Sunday

The Australian produced a final-round of 69 to secure a two-shot victory over Michael Hendry

FINAL LEADERBOARD 1) Adam Scott: 13 under 2) Michael Hendry: 11 under T3) Cameron Davis: 10 under T3) Nick Flanagan: 10 under T3) Carl Yuan: 10 under T3) Min Woo Lee: 10 under T3) Wade Ormsby: 10 under

A run of six straight pars opened the door for the chasing pack to close the gap, though, and when he dropped his first shot of the day after finding water at the eighth, he slipped back into a share of the lead.

Hendry, who struggled with a rib injury over the weekend, took over at the top of the leaderboard after reeling off three straight birdies from the eighth.

And Scott looked in danger of falling out of contention completely when he got into tree trouble at the 12th - but he pulled off an important par save to remain one shot back.

The Australian grabbed a share of the lead once more with a fine birdie at the 14th before opening up a two-shot gap courtesy of an eagle from around 10 feet on the par-five 15th.

New Zealand's Hendry took over at the top of the leaderboard but couldn't hold his nerve

The 39-year-old reacts after clinching his victory, which was his 11th European Tour title

Hendry briefly reduced the deficit to one with a birdie on the short 16th, but back-to-back bogeys at the 17th and 18th derailed his challenge.

Scott ended his round with a bogey at the last to finish the week on 13 under par and earn a first victory on home soil in 2,266 days.

Hendry finished alone in second on 11 under, with Carl Yuan, Cameron Davis, Min Woo Lee, Wade Ormsby and Nick Flanagan another stroke back in a tie for third.