He's graced major magazine covers and walked the runway for the world's top designers, alongside his twin brother Jordan Stenmark.

But on Sunday, Zac Stenmark decided to switch things up a bit by performing a rendition of the Risky Business routine made famous by Tom Cruise in the 1983 film.

Taking to Instagram, the 27-year-old hunk showed off his smooth dance moves as he held a packet of Tim Tams, all in the name of a good cause.

Risky Business! Australian model Zac Stenmark (pictured) donned little more than his undies as he performed the Tom Cruise dance routine on Instagram on Sunday

Zac was dressed in a half-buttoned business shirt, and black trunks as he lip-synced and danced to the Bob Seger classic, Old Time Rock and Roll.

'Despite the ridiculous rendition of Risky Business, seriously go to the link below and buy some epic socks - all proceeds go to The Arnott's Foundation and Camp Quality,' he wrote alongside the Instagram story.

'This is a charity close to our hearts, and they do an amazing job.'

Confident: Zac was dressed in a half-buttoned business shirt, and black trunks as he lip-synced and danced to the Bob Seger classic, Old Time Rock and Roll

Good cause: 'Despite the ridiculous rendition of Risky Business, seriously go to the link below and buy some epic socks - all proceeds go to The Arnott's Foundation and Camp Quality,' Zac wrote alongside the Instagram story (Pictured with his twin Jordan)

The Australian model recently opened up about his unlikely friendship with Canadian pop star Shawn Mendes, after the pair were spotted hanging on multiple occasions.

Speaking to The Daily Telegraph in November, the 27-year-old said: 'We were working with Armani together about four years ago. We literally just met through the brand.'

The IMG model added: '[Shawn] is just an amazing human, and a really nice guy. Because we all travel so much, we're always linking up in other parts of the world.'

Friends! The Australian model recently opened up about his unlikely friendship with Canadian pop star Shawn Mendes (left), after the pair were spotted hanging on multiple occasions

It comes after model brothers Jordan and Zac previously revealed to BW Magazine they are hoping to break into acting after moving to the US.

'America is a bigger pond so there are big opportunities,' Jordan said.

'We are developing lots of contacts and looking at moving into film and TV. And America is the place you've got to be for that.' he added.