Advertisement

Rain and floods have brought fresh chaos to Britain today with rivers bursting their banks in the south of England and Christmas travel plans thrown into doubt on the shortest day of the year.

Caravan dwellers had to be ferried away from their flooded park in Yalding, Kent, this morning after the River Medway burst its banks following a second night of heavy rain.

Nearly 100 properties have been flooded from Kent to Cornwall and there are 88 immediate flood warnings from Middlesbrough down to the south coast.

Motorists were facing travel chaos today with queues of up to an hour expected on the M25 as 2.5million people make a Christmas getaway on Sunday.

There was also disruption to rail services, with at least one train from Paddington delayed on its way to Cornwall after it was hit by several waves along the sea wall in Devon.

Flood warnings are likely to remain in place until Christmas Eve, but the day itself is expected to see cold and dry weather with temperatures dropping to 23F (-5C), meaning a White Christmas is unlikely.

Flooded: The Little Venice caravan park near Yalding in Kent was submerged today after the River Medway burst its banks, with water levels remaining high after a second night of heavy rain in the south of England

Emergency: A resident of Little Venice Caravan Park is rescued by boat from the floodwater this morning amid heavy rain

Flood water has inundated the Little Venice caravan park near Yalding in Kent after the River Medway burst its banks

A van drives over a partially submerged Teston Bridge in West Farleigh near Maidstone, Kent, today, with with torrential downpours expected to batter the country and devastate Christmas travel plans on the shortest day of the year

Residents with boots and buckets try to stop the floodwaters entering their home in Yalding today after heavy rain in the area

Floodwaters outside a on River Lane in Alfriston, East Sussex, near the river Uck that burst its banks due to heavy rain

East Sussex: An abandoned car sits in the car park at Alfriston by the river Uck that burst its banks due to heavy rain

Maps showing the weather forecast for the UK on Saturday, Sunday and Monday in the run-up to Christmas

There are 88 flood warnings in place and a further 227 flooding alerts today, meaning there is a risk of flash flooding and standing water.

With more rain likely on Monday and Tuesday, the flood threat is expected continue for the next few days in southern and central England, according to the Environment Agency.

Drivers face queues of more than an hour and a half between Flitwick and Daventry today, with hour-long traffic jams expected on the M25 clockwise between the junctions for the M23 and M40.

The RAC says 2.5million leisure trips are expected on the roads today with another 6.2million preparing to get away before Christmas Day.

The organisation has warned motorists to expect 'bumper-to-bumper' traffic over the next few days, with 31.2 million journeys set to be taken in the week before Christmas.

Data from transport specialists INRIX shows the M1 in Bedfordshire and Northamptonshire, the northern and western sections of the clockwise M25, and M6 in the West Midlands are expected to see the worst delays over the next week.

Emergency services in Buckinghamshire had to rescue a mother and her three young sons who became stuck in their car in flood water in Edgecott overnight.

Thames Valley Police urged drivers not to move or ignore 'road closed' signs placed on the routes most at risk of flooding.

Ben Aldous, of the RAC, said 'bumper-to-bumper traffic on some motorways and major A-roads' was 'near-guaranteed'.

He said: 'It looks as though millions of drivers are planning to complete their Christmas getaway trips this week.

'Unfortunately, when you add in the prospect of unsettled weather, with heavy rain and strong winds in some parts, these are likely to be pretty unpleasant drives.'

Today is also the shortest day of the year in the Northern Hemisphere. In London, the sun rose at 8.05am and set at 3.54pm for a total of seven hours and 49 minutes of daylight.

The hours were more extreme in Scotland: in Inverness, the sun rose at 8.58am and set at 3.33pm. From now on, the days will start getting gradually longer again.

A car lies abandoned and partly underwater in Alfriston, East Sussex, by the river Uck that burst its banks due to heavy rain

Forecast: Weather graphics show heavy rain sweeping across the south of England today

A submerged car in Yalding, Kent, after the area flooded following heavy rain which has disrupted Christmas travel

A man uses a bucket to clear water out of his home in Yalding, Kent on Sunday afternoon

Residents of Little Venice Caravan Park in Yalding paddle near a telephone box today after the caravan site was evacuated

A tow truck drives through floodwater near Yalding, Kent, after heavy rain which is throwing Christmas plans into chaos

A car throws up spray towards the pavement as it drives through a flooded road in the centre of Eynsford, Kent, today

Two pedestrians with a dog follow a car over Teston Bridge amid heavy flooding near Maidstone on another day of heavy rain

A horse box is seen submerged in floodwater at Little Venice Caravan Park in Yalding on Sunday morning

A car drives over the partially submerged Teston Bridge with millions of motorists facing travel chaos on Sunday

A rainbow above Little Venice Country Park and Marina in Yalding which has been severely flooded by the torrential rain

Flood water spreads across the road in Eynsford, Kent after the River Darent burst its banks overnight. The already saturated ground has made conditions worse

One drone shot shows the extent of the flooding in Essex. There are currently 105 flood warnings and 260 flood alerts across the country

The town of St Ives in Cambridgeshire surrounded by rising flood water on Saturday morning after the River Great Ouse bursts it banks after the recent heavy rainfall

This morning there was flooding at Blackwater station in Hampshire, forcing rail travellers to take replacement buses until the line towards Reading re-opened.

Great Northern, Gatwick Express, Thameslink and Southern rail services were all disrupted into Sunday morning.

Later, passengers faced delays on a Great Western Railway service from Paddington to Penzance after the train was hit by waves as it travelled along the sea wall near Newton Abbot in Devon.

There were also urgent track repairs needed on the Midland Main Line at Kentish Town, although it was unclear if these were related to the weather.

At the caravan park in Kent, residents of 115 mobile homes were evacuated by motorboat after the River Medway burst its banks on Saturday.

Today people were seen paddling down footpaths which had turned to canals, after fire crews used inflatable boats to reach the residents who were most at risk.

Kent Fire and Rescue Service says the caravan park is likely to be cut off for at least the next few days before the water subsides.

Two pedestrians walk on the pavement beside a car which is driving through high waters in Eynsford, Kent today

Residents of Little Venice Caravan Park in Yalding, Kent, are rescued by motorboat from floodwaters after heavy rain

A man in Wellington boots leaves his house today in East Sussex on a road which flooded when a nearby river burst its banks

Floodwater at Little Venice Caravan Park in Yalding which is expected to be cut off for at least the next few days

A tow truck passes a stranded car in floodwater near Yalding, Kent, today after heavy rain which has disrupted the Christmas travel plans of millions

A man wearing a green helmet paddles along what is usually a footpath in Yalding, Kent, which was heavily affected by floods

People canoe down a road near the flooded caravan park in Yalding on a second day of heavy rain in much of the South

A bleak view of Yalding near the Little Venice caravan park which had to be evacuated when the river burst its banks

A car is stranded in floodwater near Yalding amid very high water levels following torrential rain in the south of England

Flooding in the centre of Eynsford today brought the water levels even higher than usual

Floodwater at Little Venice Caravan Park in Yalding, Kent, after heavy rain which has disrupted Christmas travel plans

Residents in Chertsey and Shepperton in Surrey saw a tornado pass through the area damaging property and downing trees. This image shows trees strewn across the road in Bittams Lane, Chertsey

The River Darent in Eynsford, Kent has burst its banks overnight due to the continued heavy rain. The riverside road is closed at one end near the ford bridge

Trees strewn across the road in Bittams Lane, Chertsey after a tornado hit the area this morning

Meteorologist Steven Keates said on Sunday afternoon: 'Yesterday's rain is slowly clearing in eastern England - it's fairly light and patchy now, there's not really too much falling but it's totted up the rainfall and the flooding issues across the south overnight.'

'The good news is that the next couple of days offer a bit of a respite.

'There's a bit of rain in the forecast mostly in the form of showers but the rainfall amounts in areas affected by flooding in recent days will be relatively small and won't greatly exacerbate the problem.'

But as groundwater levels across parts of the south are still very high, there are likely to be ongoing flood issues in the region.

Mr Keates added: 'There is still some rain in the forecast but on the whole it's not looking as wet as it has in the last few days which I think for most people is good news.'

Fields are pictured completely submerged by the water. It has been predicted that two weeks' worth of rain will fall in the next 24 hours

Environment Agency flood defences have been installed in Leatherhead, Surrey after fears that the river Mole would flood parts of the high street and surrounding houses. River levels remain high after heavy overnight rain in the south

Today will also see rain fall in the South and many parts of the North and Scotland, with similar temperatures expected

Flood warnings and alerts are expected to remain in place until at least Christmas Eve until rain starts to clear the South on Christmas Day.

December 25 itself will see lows of 23F (-5C) in Scotland and 27F (-3C) in the South of England, with possible ice and frost but mainly dry skies.

Sunny spells follow later on Christmas Day – good news for families planning to walk off a turkey lunch.

Forecaster Marco Petagna said: 'There's potential for further transport disruption, with flood warnings and alerts, rain at times on Monday affecting much of England and Wales and rain at times on Christmas Eve in the Midlands and South.

'Allow extra time for journeys, watch out for standing water and do not drive through flood water.

'We don't expect a white Christmas as Christmas Day looks dry – but colder than now, with a north-westerly flow coming in on Christmas Eve, and high pressure.

'Ice patches and frost are certainly possible in the South and North, but most should have sunny spells afterwards for a walk after the turkey.

'Wet and windy weather is likely on Boxing Day and Friday, with more unsettled weather on New Year's Eve and New Year's Day, especially in the North and West, with a changeable start to the new year.'

The Environment Agency said: 'Local flooding is possible more widely at times until Tuesday across the South and Midlands. Properties could flood and there could be travel disruption.'

Residents in Chertsey and Shepperton in Surrey have shared videos of a tornado passing through the area damaging property and downing trees, with the Met Office confirming it happened this morning. Pictured: a garden destroyed by the tornado

The Met Office shared images of the tornado on its Twitter account yesterday afternoon

Flood water three-foot high in parts on the Lees Road, Yalding as men in a black Land Rover try to recover a white van from the water. The River Medway in Yalding, Kent has bursts its banks causing severe flooding to the village

A woman wades through water at Little Venice Country Park and Marina in Yalding which has been severely flooded. Residents of the lodge and caravan community are having to use boats to get on and off the site

Passengers at Euston station yesterday morning make their way to trains to get home. Many have chosen to travel this morning due to delays and cancellations last night

A Santa on his way home from a school Christmas function had to be rescued by a farmer near Shaftesbury in Dorset yesterday

Multiple fire engines were seen in Chertsey after a tornado brought down trees and caused travel disruption yesterday

Fallen trees block the road in Chertsey after the tornado ripped through Surrey yesterday morning at around 10.30am

The sun briefly shines on to flood water filled fields south of Pulborough, West Sussex after the River Arun burst its banks and flooded local businesses and farm land

The steam locomotive Flying Scotsman passes over the Ribblehead Viaduct, North Yorkshire

Onlookers stand before the Flying Dutchman as it goes over the stunning viaduct during its journey on Saturday afternoon

A Tesco van and a SUV lie submerged in water at the village of Alfriston following the bursting of the river Uck's banks

A house lies with a hole in its roof after debris from the tornado in Chertsey struck on Saturday

Southern England was the worst-affected part of the country on Saturday, with the River Darent bursting its banks in Eynsford, Kent and the village of Yalding being submerged.

A tornado brought trees down on cars and flipped over vehicles in Chertsey, Surrey, forcing emergency services to send four fire engines to the scene.

Yesterday's rain also caused a section of the promenade in Southsea, Hampshire, to collapse. The stretch had already been identified by the council as 'dangerous' and repairs will now take place.

The M23 was shut yesterday in both directions because of flooding near Crawley, West Sussex.

The closure brought gridlock around Gatwick airport, with tailbacks several miles long reported on alternative routes.

The River Rother also burst its banks in another part of Wets Sussex, blocking roads.

There were concerns for rail travellers too with Great Northern, Gatwick Express, Thameslink and Southern services all expected to be disrupted until midday on Sunday.

One frustrated commuter yesterday morning shared a video of Euston station showing crowds pushing their way through the ticket hall to get to their trains home for Christmas.

The M23 was shut yesterday in both directions because of flooding near Crawley, West Sussex, as workers battled to stem the tide

The River Thames flooding at Datchet yesterday. Southern rail have said that spells of heavy rain or showers may cause flooding on the railway leading to some potential disruption

In Sussex the River Rother overflows. Some 57 flood warnings, where a flood is expected, were issued yesterday across central and southern England

Flooding in Essex yesterday following heavy rain which caused cars to be stuck after the downpours with more rain due to fall today

Two swans float by after flooding of the River Thames at Datchet

A landslip blocks trains between Guildford and Godalming yesterday. Rail commuters also faced delays after tracks were left under water inches deep at Frant Station, Tunbridge Wells, East Sussex, yesterday morning

Drivers who break down in unknown places can find out where they are Drivers with the AA who break down in unknown locations will now be able to find out where they are within a 3m x 3m (10ft x 10ft) square. A company called what3words has divided the world into 3m x 3m squares, and assigned each one a three word identifier. This means that AA customers can now provide the call operator with their exact what3words address during a breakdown to help find them faster. The AA estimates there could be up to 143 million car journeys over this Christmas period, with around 10,000 breakdowns per day. what3words does not require an internet connection, so even if a customer breaks down in a very rural location with no visible landmarks, they will be able to find and describe the exact position of their stranded vehicle.