Will Smith was spotted in a remote town in Far North Queensland on Friday morning.

And days later on Sunday, the 51-year-old enjoyed a layover in 'beautiful Sydney' before heading back home to Los Angeles for Christmas.

The Men in Black star captured views of Sydney Harbour to Instagram Stories, and told fans that he's in awe of what we're 'doing here' in Australia.

Down Under: Will Smith, 51, (pictured) enjoyed a layover in 'beautiful Sydney' on Sunday, before heading back home to Los Angeles for Christmas

In the short clip, Will was dressed down in a grey long-sleeve top and a black cap.

The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air actor stood on the balcony of a venue in Sydney's Lower North Shore, and captured views of the harbour.

'The harbour, that's crazy, that's hot,' Will said in the video. 'I like what you're all doing here in Sydney. I like what you're all doing.'

In awe: The Men in Black star took to Instagram Stories, capturing views of Sydney Harbour. Will said in the clip: 'I like what you're all doing here in Sydney. I like what you're all doing'

Picturesque: Will stood on the balcony of a venue in Sydney's Lower North Shore

'That's beautiful,' he added. '[I'm] heading home for Christmas. It's hot in Sydney for Christmas though.'

On Friday, Will posed for a photo with a fan at Lockhart River Airport, located nearly 800 kilometres north of Cairns in Far North Queensland.

He wrapped one arm around Lockhart River Airport crew member Simon Butcher, who later shared the photo on Facebook.

That's unlikely! Will was spotted in a remote town in Far North Queensland, Australia on Friday morning. Pictured with fan Simon Butcher, who shared the photo to Facebook

Travels: Just last week, Will was pictured landing in Vanuatu with an entourage in tow

Just last week, Will was pictured landing in Vanuatu with an entourage in tow.

Little is known as to why he arrived Down Under, however The Cairns Post suspects it was to film the second season of his Netflix documentary, One Strange Rock.

According to the streaming service, the series follows eight astronauts 'who share their unique perspectives on Earth, the fragile and beautiful planet we call home'.

Daily Mail Australia has reached out to Will's representatives for comment.