Britney Spears and her 'love' of two years, Sam Asghari, got cozy in front of the massive Christmas tree inside her $7.4M five-bedroom mansion in Thousand Oaks on Saturday.

At 38, the Grammy winner is 13 years older than the Iranian 25-year-old, whom she originally met in October 2016 on the set of her Slumber Party music video.

The bi-polar pop diva is also spending Christmas Eve with her two sons, but her ex-husband Kevin Federline has them for the rest of the week, according to ET.

'Merry Christmas!' Britney Spears and her 'love' of two years, Sam Asghari, got cozy in front of the massive Christmas tree inside her $7.4M mansion in Thousand Oaks on Saturday

Her 41-year-old former back-up dancer's custodial rights of 14-year-old Sean and 13-year-old Jayden formally went from 50–50 to 70-30 in August, according to TMZ.

The change came after Britney's 30-day 'wellness facility' stint in April and her father-conservator Jamie's November 2018 hospitalization for a ruptured colon.

Spears has been under court-ordered permanent conservatorship of her 67-year-old dad (and various attorneys) since being put on 5150 involuntary psychiatric hold back in 2008.

On Saturday, Sam Insta-storied a #freebritney meme edited to look like Britney had been elected President of the United States, which criticized her 11-year conservatorship.

Merry? The 38-year-old Grammy winner is also spending Christmas Eve with her two sons, but her ex-husband Kevin Federline has them for the rest of the week (pictured December 14)

Stable home: Her 41-year-old former back-up dancer's custodial rights of 14-year-old Sean (L) and 13-year-old Jayden (R) formally went from 50–50 to 70-30 in August (pictured August 4)

Complicated: The bi-polar pop diva has been under court-ordered permanent conservatorship of her father Jamie since being put on 5150 involuntary psychiatric hold back in 2008 (pictured in 2008)

'Did y'all know britney can't drive her own car or even pick a lawyer of her choosing to defend her in court?' the @itsbritneymeme post was captioned.

'Yet she still has to pay for the lawyer that her conservator (her dad) picks for her. FREE BRITNEY!'

It was a very rare public admission about the former Mouseketeer from Asghari, who made his small-screen acting debut as a security guard on Tuesday's NCIS.

Laughing emojis: On Saturday, Sam Insta-storied a #freebritney meme edited to look like Britney had been elected President of the United States

The @itsbritneymeme post was captioned: 'Did y'all know britney can't drive her own car or even pick a lawyer of her choosing to defend her in court? Yet she still has to pay for the lawyer that her conservator (her dad) picks for her. FREE BRITNEY!'

'One of the best sets I've been on!' It was a very rare public admission about the former Mouseketeer from the Iranian 25- year-old, who made his small-screen acting debut as a security guard on Tuesday's NCIS

From January 31-April 26, Los Angeles fans can pay $59.50-$64.50 to visit Britney The Zone, a 30K-square-foot 10-room immersive interactive experience celebrating her music.

The Mississippi-born blonde's limited-time pop-up featuring new merchandise will be open six days a week at the corner of Fairfax Avenue and 3rd Street in West Hollywood near The Grove.

And Chicago fans can catch Once Upon a One More Time, a Broadway-bound musical featuring music from Spears, when it finally opens April 14-May 17 at the James M. Nederlander Theatre.

'It's going to be so fun!' From January 31-April 26, Los Angeles fans can pay $59.50-$64.50 to visit Britney The Zone, a 30K-square-foot 10-room immersive interactive experience celebrating her music (pictured Saturday)

Broadway-bound! Chicago fans can catch Once Upon a One More Time, a musical featuring music from Spears, when it finally opens April 14-May 17 at the James M. Nederlander Theatre

Both ventures don't depend on Britney's physical presence as she has been enjoying a career hiatus since January 4th cancelation of her Las Vegas residency Dominion.

'I hope y'all haven't forgotten about me!' the Make Me... hitmaker - who boasts 121.3M social media followers - wrote on September 27.

'I'm taking this transition in my life to focus on what I really want. I've been working nonstop, well, since I was 8 years old in the business. Sometimes it's good to stop and reflect! Miss you all. I really do have the best fans in the world!'