The bushfire crisis across New South Wales and Queensland continues to worsen with record breaking temperatures.

And Australian model Megan Gale questioned why the 'fires are still raging' in an impassioned Instagram post on Sunday.

The 44-year-old said she hopes the 'powers that be in this country sort this s**t out and fast'.

'I keep scratching my head as to how these fires are still raging': Model Megan Gale, 44, took to Instagram on Sunday, asking the 'powers that be in this country' to sort out the bushfire crisis

'And as our country continues to burn, I keep scratching my head as to how the h*ll these fires are still raging after all these weeks,' Megan penned online.

'I'm sure it's a complex operation to monitor, maintain and manage, but I really hope the powers that be in this country sort this s**t out and fast!'

Megan later edited her post, explaining that she was 'not having a go' at the Australian government.

'I'm simply saddened and confused like the rest of the country by the fact these bushfires are still blazing.'

Crisis: The bushfire crisis across New South Wales and Queensland has worsened with record breaking temperatures. Pictured: fires blazing at Wollemi National Park in New South Wales

The mother-of-two went on to thank firefighters and volunteers for doing 'an incredible job' and encouraged Australians to help out wherever they can.

'This time of year is when the whole country should be in great spirits, welcoming in Christmas and signing off another decade, but it's definitely twinged in sadness this year,' Megan wrote.

A heatwave on Tuesday and Wednesday this week added to dangerous fire conditions, with more than 170 fires burning in New South Wales and Queensland.

Baffled: 'And as our country continues to burn, I keep scratching my head as to how the h*ll these fires are still raging after all these weeks,' Megan penned online

Australia's most populous state of New South Wales declared a seven-day state of emergency on Thursday as oppressive conditions fanned around 100 wildfires.

The last state of emergency ran for seven days in mid-November amid 'catastrophic' fire risk and was the first implemented in New South Wales since 2013.

Protesters on Thursday camped outside Prime Minister Scott Morrison's Sydney residence demanding urgent action on climate change.

State of emergency: NSW declared a seven-day state of emergency on Thursday as oppressive conditions fanned around 100 wildfires. Pictured: Fires raging at Gospers Mountain, NSW

Morrison, who recently returned from a family holiday, conceded last week that 'climate change along with many other factors' contributed to the wildfires.

On Sunday, Morrison apologised for taking a vacation in Hawaii as deadly fires raged, destroying homes and claiming the lives of two volunteer firefighters.

'If you had your time over again and you had the benefit of hindsight, we would have made different decisions,' he said. 'I am sure Australians are fair-minded and understand that when you make a promise to your kids you try and keep it.'

He added: 'But as prime minister, you have other responsibilities and I accept that and I accept the criticism.'