The wives and girlfriends of some rather playful men across the globe have shared their traumas online.

Collated to a gallery on Bored Panda, one picture saw a desperate husband standing outside American store Target, holding a sign which reads 'Not homeless! Wife in Target two plus hours. Please help!'.

Elsewhere a father decided to strap his child's bike cart to his jeep, before texting his wife a picture of it and turning his phone off, in an amusingly cruel prank.

Meanwhile one lucky girlfriend received a set of keys from her boyfriend, tagged 'girlfriend number seven' and featuring several crossed out names.

One picture sees a desperate husband standing outside American store Target, holding a sign which reads 'Not homeless! Wife in Target two plus hours. Please help!'

Elsewhere a boyfriend left his other half a cup which had been ominously ripped open, along with the note: 'Warning! Aggressive spider under cup. Do not move!'

Meanwhile a father who was left alone with his triplets sent his wife this picture when she asked him for an update, which saw three rather confused babies sat around a card game

A father decided to strap his child's bike cart to his jeep, before texting his wife a picture of it and turning his phone off, in an amusingly cruel prank

One lucky girlfriend received a set of keys from her boyfriend, tagged 'girlfriend number seven' and featuring several crossed out names

Pie on her face! Meanwhile a wife's hard work went to waste after her husband cut out eyes, nose and a mouth on her homebaked treat

A naughty father blamed his wife asking him to write a Santa note at midnight on leaving their children some crumbs and a note writing 'thank god you can't read yet'

Elsewhere a husband had some rather creative names for the spices - including 'Oregano Gangsta' and 'It's Go Thyme'

You had one job! Elsewhere a husband tasked with doing the gender reveal cake designed a baked treat emblazoned with the message 'We're here fo the sex!'

Elsewhere a boyfriend who couldn't find the correct numbers for his other half's birthday cake used a complex sum instead

And a hapless American husband left alone with the dog sent his wife a picture of their wild night in - which included beer, and some rather suspicious rolled up bank notes