Two 11-year-old girls have written a heartfelt tribute to volunteer firefighters who will spend Christmas Day away from their families.

The poem, 'Real Heroes Don't Wear Capes', was written by Hailee and Casey from Riverwood in Sydney's south.

The piece praises the resilience and strength of the country's firefighters and thanks them for putting their lives on the line to protect strangers.

The poem describes the nation's fire-fighters as heroes and thanks them for missing Christmas to protect stranger's homes

They describe the firefighters as the real heroes we should be worshiping, rather than those from movies or TV.

It ends with a reminder for Australians to take the time out of their Christmas holiday to thank the firefighters for their efforts.

The poem was shared to New South Wales rural fire service Facebook page where thousands of people have praised the girls for their kind words.

Real Heroes don't wear capes It's Christmas in Australia and we're ready for the heat. It's backyard cricket and swimming pools and it really can't be beat. But this year feels a bit different. I'm only 11 yet I know, Our country is on fire and this drought? It just won't go. There's smoke and ash and burning leaves that cover our Aussie sky. Our wildlife, bush and property, incinerating before our eyes. Our farmers are losing their cattle, our country businesses going broke. Yet our Aussie spirit of helping another, has not gone up in smoke We're not in a movie, a book or TV, not a bat phone or signal in sight. But a bonded group of heroes we have, on the fire front they fight. No super speed, no flash costume, no cape attached on their back. Just kilograms of equipment, a truck and a will that knows no slack. It's yellow suits and helmets, it's dragging a heavy hose. It's facing a wall of fire, guessing which way the wind might blow. They have a heart that pumps for this country, a strength that's rarely seen. It's a selfless act to put your life on the line, as we've all seen. They won't be home for Christmas, They won't get the family feed. No break, no rest, no knock-off time, They won't leave til they succeed. They will fight to save OUR Christmas, Our homes, our lives our land. While losing their own properties, they continue to take a stand These heroes that I mention, the ones that fight for us, They're our NSW Fire and Rescue and the volunteer RFS. So this Christmas please remember, While we are in celebration. To maybe pop in and say thank you, to the heroes at your local fire station.

The poem describes the fire-fighters facing walls of fire and dragging heavy hoses to protect the country ahead of Christmas

The poem has been described as a true reflection of 'the Aussie spirit' and a 'wonderful tribute to our firefighters who are living legends'.

The two girls live in Riverwood in Sydney's south - which has been largely untouched by the fires ravaging the state.

Meanwhile, the small village of Balmoral, southwest of Sydney, was all but wiped out by the Green Wattle Creek firestorm that roared through the area twice in three days.

The community was already reeling after being hit on Thursday when the flames returned on Saturday during catastrophic fire conditions.

'We've got the devastating news there's not much left in the town of Balmoral,' Premier Gladys Berejiklian said in nearby Picton on Sunday.

'Very sad to hear that. Many residents have had that news in the last little while. Communities like Buxton and others have also been very hard hit.'

The premier said some residents would be allowed to return to their properties 'today or tomorrow' but others could have to wait longer.

The bushfires across Australia's east coast have killed six people and destroyed more than 680 homes in New South Wales.

