They're the ultimate power couple, with a string of hit shows on both sides of the Atlantic.

And Michelle Keegan and Mark Wright played up to their status as they dressed as Mr and Mrs Incredible from the hit Pixar film for a festive weekend.

Mark shared an Instagram snap of the couple in their fancy dress on Sunday, capping off their family weekend.

Heroes: Michelle Keegan and Mark Wright played up to their power couple status as they dressed as Mr and Mrs Incredible from the hit Pixar film for a festive weekend

Michelle looked amazing in her costume, teaming the look with thigh-high patent boots and gloves.,

Mark meanwhile added some extra muscles to his physique with the help of his costume, striking a powerful pose beside his beaming wife.

The Heart FM presenter captioned the fun pic 'Do not f*** with us !! Merry Christmas.'

The couple enjoyed time with Mark's Essex family over the weekend, with his sister Jess sharing a photo of the whole clan as they ventured out to see some Christmas lights.

Mark wrapped his arms around a chic-looking Michelle as they posed with his sister Jess and her boyfriend William Lee-Kemp, parents Mark Snr and Carol and Mark's brother Josh and his wife Hollie Kane.

The only person missing from the festive snap, taking in front of twinkling Christmas trees in London, was the youngest Wright sibling, Natalya.

Family: The couple enjoyed time with Mark's Essex family over the weekend, with his sister Jess sharing a photo of the whole clan as they ventured out to see some Christmas lights (pictured L-R Jess' boyfriend William Lee-Kemp, Jess, parents Mark Snr and Carol and brother Josh and his wife Hollie Kane)

Mark and Michelle split their time between their home in Essex and Michelle's family back in Manchester.

It hasn't all been happy families for the couple over past festive seasons though as Mark recently revealed he broke Michelle's festive tradition to go drinking with her stepfather.

Speaking on his Heart Radio show, the presenter said that he had to grovel to his spouse, both 32, after he decided forego the tradition of watching Christmas films with a buffet of snacks to head to the pub.

Explaining the drama on his radio show, Mark admitted that he got into trouble with Michelle several years ago after he forgot to head home for the family's festive buffet.

He said: 'My wife’s family are from the north and I’m from the south so we have to switch it up but once, a couple of years ago, her mum and her stepdad came down, right, and this year we are having all of them, and this is why I’m scared – because when it happened a couple of years ago with just two of them, we broke the family tradition, and it was my fault.

Party time: Michelle shared a look at the feast she had laid on for the family

'My wife’s family tradition are getting in pyjamas, sitting in front of the TV, watching a Christmas film and having a bit table, which if you don’t understand what that means it’s like sausage rolls, prawns, chicken nuggets and kind having picky bits whilst you’re watching a film, very cute night but I’m used to going out clubbing on Christmas Eve.'

Mark continued: 'There’s a pub right next to mine and my wife’s house. All my mates go in there. All my family go in there. Everyone from the village. The Christmas tunes are on.

'Me and her stepdad are in the pub a couple of years ago, having a few beers, get a bit carried away and forget about the bits table. To punish us they didn’t text us to hurry up to tell us it was ready they expected us to know.

'So what we did, we went home a bit too late, walked in, faces like thunder, food was cold. And I mean they were livid. There was no coming back, I was like ''oh no I’ve ruined their family tradition'' her stepdad’s never been in trouble on Christmas Eve but I also love Christmas Eve so much with the drinks that I’m not gonna refuse going down the pub this year.'

Hinting that he had no plans to change his newfound Christmas Eve tradition, Mark added: 'So family, from Michelle’s side, if you think I’m having a bits table and watching a film, great. I’ll do it later.

'But I’m going down the pub first and if I’m late, I’m pre apologising coz let me tell you, that last Christmas Eve I had to do a lot of grovelling, but by the time Santa come, she was smiling again. Luckily!'