As a model, Jessica Gomes has a natural passion for fashion.

And on Saturday, the 35-year-old took to Instagram to give fans a glimpse inside the newly organised closet at her Los Angeles home.

Sharing a number of photos, the beauty revealed that she had professional help from wardrobe stylist to the stars, Ría Safford, who is based in Beverly Hills.

'No longer a hot mess!' Model Jessica Gomes (pictured) gave fans a glimpse inside her newly organised closet on Saturday, sharing several snaps to Instagram

The photos showed the brunette standing in front of a mass of clothing on the floor alongside a free-standing clothing wrack.

Subsequent pictures revealed that the mess had been neatly sorted into dividers and categorised by item type.

Jessica also stood proudly in front of a large white closet space, which appeared to be a walk-in, which housed her shoe collection.

Before: The 35-year-old showed off the closet at her Los Angeles home, which needed some tidying up

After: The beauty revealed the results after she had professional help from wardrobe stylist to the stars, Ría Safford, who is based in Beverly Hills

Lots of footwear! Dozens of pairs of sparkling designer heels were lined up beside more edgy pieces such as Doc Martens boots and trendy sneakers

Bag it! Another view of the walk-in showed a number of high-end handbags hung up on free wall space

Dozens of pairs of sparkling designer heels were lined up beside more edgy pieces, such as Doc Martens boots and trendy sneakers.

Another view of the walk-in showed a number of high-end handbags and hats hung up on free wall space.

Thanking Ría in her caption, Jessica wrote: 'No longer a hot mess because of you. Love you babe. You are the best!'

Feeling chilly? One photo showed off her collection of winter jackets

Roomy! The walk-in appeared to have plenty of room for an extensive clothing collection

Heads up! A number of hats were hung on the wall above the clothing wrack

During the process: The organisation slowly came together during the day

On her own Instagram, Ría explained the process, writing: 'Jessica is one of the funniest, sweetest, most down to earth people I have ever met.

'This project took way longer than it should have because we were chatting about life, quoting Dumb and Dumber, reenacting our favorite SNL skits and just having WAY too much fun.

'On top of all that, I got to transform her space to make getting ready fun and easy! Love you, babe! (I've learned Aussies say 'babe' a LOT)'.

Thanking professional organiser Ría in her caption, Jessica wrote: 'No longer a hot mess because of you. Love you babe. You are the best!' Shown before the transformation