She's a singer and a national spokesperson for People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.

And now, Courtney Stodden is showing off yet another talent she has -- modeling.

The 25-year-old recently stripped down for Santa's naught list in a skimpy red bikini and some fake snow for her jolly shoot.

Merry Christmas: Courtney Stodden stripped down for a recent photoshoot where she wore nothing but a tiny red bikini in light of the upcoming holiday

She made sure to show off her assets in the red bustier top with white feathers along the top.

Her bottoms were a set to the identical top and had snow smeared across them as part of the set while rocking sky high red heels.

Courtney wore her signature platinum blonde hair up in a high pony tail while posing with a gigantic candy cane.

Sizzling: She made sure to show off her assets in the red bustier top with white feathers along the top

Getting low: Courtney wore her signature platinum blonde hair up in a high pony tail while sprinkling snow on the ground as she posed

Courtney is most famously known for marrying 50-year-old Doug Hutchison when she was just 16 years old in Las Vegas back in 2011.

The marriage caught lots of attention by viewers everywhere, and the newlyweds loved the newfound fame.

In 2013, she set out on a new career path in the music industry releasing her video for her new song Reality.

Around that time she became an advocate for PETA saying, 'The best way to help save animals is to not eat them.'

Working it: She showed off her toned features while posing with the blow-up candy cane

In November of that same year her rep announced that she was ending her marriage with her partner of just a couple of years.

The two later reconnected for couples therapy and announced they planned to renew their vows.

But then in 2016, she announced that they were expecting their first child together, but later suffered a miscarriage.

In the end, the two ended up divorcing with Page Six reporting that the two were experiencing financial troubles after separating which included Doug filing for bankruptcy.

Snow day: For her shoot she had fun rolling around in some snow as she had some drizzled on her back side