It was a historic night on Saturday, for at least two reasons: it marked the final episode of Saturday Night Live for this year and decade, and more importantly, the show welcomed back one of its most beloved alumni — the great Eddie Murphy.

And worthy of such a notable episode was the musical guest, none other than Entertainer of the Year (according to both Entertainment Weekly and Time Magazine) Lizzo, who brought the house down with her now classic tracks Truth Hurts and Good As Hell.

Murphy, 58, was a regular cast member on Saturday Night Live from 1980 to 1984, and he was in rare form on Saturday's show — most notable was when he 'crashed' the Weekend Update segment as the loudmouthed, brash Gumby and all but refused to leave.

Gumby's return: It was a historic night on Saturday: it marked the final episode of Saturday Night Live for this year and decade, and the show welcomed back the great Eddie Murphy

At the top of the program, Eddie got right down to resurrecting some of his favorite skits of yore, which started with Mister Robinson's Neighborhood — all the timelier since Mister Rogers has been in the spotlight thanks to both a recent well-received documentary and the new feature film starring Tom Hanks.

In the Robinson's skit, Murphy mentioned how a lot has happened since last audiences spent time with him — namely, gentrification.

He also talked about other new trends that have cropped up, including 23 and Me, which he identified as '23 people say, "My father is me!"'

Another fun and cheeky moment came when Eddie and the cast appeared in a pre-recorded and rather ironic Christmas greeting from SNL to viewers, which showed a loving family gathered around a warm holiday table, with the father (Murphy) making a heartfelt toast.

At the top of the program: Eddie got right down to it, resurrecting some of his favorite skits of yore, which started with Mister Robinson's Neighborhood

Then and now: Murphy was a regular cast member on Saturday Night Live from 1980 to 1984

Interspersed within his speech were flashbacks to earlier in the weekend, showing various family members (including Kenan Thompson and guest performer Maya Rudolph) driving each other absolutely crazy as often happens when families unite for the holidays.

The skit closed with a title card wishing viewers a happy holiday from SNL, saying 'To all out families: we love you even when we don't.'

Another retro Murphy moment was when the Coming To America star reprised his role of Buckwheat, a bonkers take on the Little Rascals character, who now found himself a contestant on The Masked Singer.

Holiday irony: Another fun and cheeky moment came when Eddie and the cast appeared in a pre-recorded and rather ironic Christmas greeting from SNL to viewers

The real deal: The segment showed a loving family gathered around a warm holiday table, interspersed with flashbacks showing various family members driving each other crazy

Another retro Murphy moment: His role of Buckwheat, a bonkers take on the Little Rascals character, who now found himself a contestant on The Masked Singer

Buckwheat's... singular rendition of songs like Single Ladies was right up there with some of Murphy's best.

But the most insane moment of all came during the Weekend Update segment, which Eddie crashed as Gumby, that flexible green claymation character from back in the day, who Murphy famously reinvented as loudmouthed New Yorker.

Eddie was clearly having fun inhabiting the character again, and chaos ensued as he talked over Weekend Update hosts Michael Che and Colin Jost, even refusing to leave.

Sing it: Buckwheat's... singular rendition of songs like Single Ladies was right up there with some of Murphy's best

Loudmouth: But the most insane moment of all came during the Weekend Update segment, which Eddie crashed as Gumby and wouldn't leave

Balancing out the mayhem was the glorious Lizzo, who closed out her banner year in top form.

For her first performance, of Truth Hurts, the singer was in a stylish Gucci trench coat dress wrapped up like a Christmas gift with red and green piping, backed by a band made up of talented, similarly plus-sized black women.

The hitmaker's second performance was a chill and jazzy rendition of her hit Good As Hell, with pole dancers, a Christmas song breakdown moment, and actual in-studio snowfall.

Gorgeous: Balancing out the mayhem was the glorious Lizzo, who closed out her banner year in top form

For her first performance: The singer was in a stylish Gucci trench coat dress wrapped up like a Christmas gift with red and green piping

Feeling it: The hitmaker's second performance was a chill and jazzy rendition of her hit Good As Hell