A California activist group revealed their plan to create a $3billion private city to provide accommodation to the state's 150,000 homeless people.

Daune Nason, founder of Citizens Again, announced on Thursday proposals to combat the ongoing homeless crisis plaguing the Golden State.

'It's time to think differently to solve the homelessness crisis: instead of building 4,000 more shelters, Citizens Again is crowdfunding to build 1 city, catering towards America's entire chronic adult homeless population, and it will be quicker and cost billions less than current efforts,' the press release says.

Citizens Again revealed their plan to build a $3billion city to house 150,000 homeless citizens in California

Citizens Again plans to construct the 300-acre city to include several services, including high-density housing dorms, a hospital, healthcare, food services, on-site job training and life skills enrichment.

According to Nason, Citizens Again's city would be a quicker and more efficient process than the one politicians have laid out.

'Based on the government's placement rate from the last ten years, it will take close to 200 years to create enough shelters to house the 90,000 unsheltered chronic homeless adults. Nobody wants to wait that long,' he wrote.

Citizen Again say they plan on creating neighborhoods that will provide communal TVs with tiered seating to fit multiple people (pictured)

Each neighborhood will have a cafeteria, kitchen and several set eating times to adjust to community members' schedules (pictured)

The group estimates that the new city will be ready in just 11 years, with an ambitious opening date of 2031.

I’ve looked at a couple of different locations in California. It’s going to have to be in a moderate climate, probably somewhat of a flatland. I’m going to need about 300 acres,' Nason told Good Day Sacramento.

He says people in his hometown of Folsom have formed mixed reviews about the city.

Mike Lucio said: 'It could bring down property values. People don’t want that in their backyard. They want to help, but they don’t want it in their backyard.'

Nason understands that a project of this caliber will take time and resources.

'Definitely it’s an ambitious project. There’s never been anything like this in the history of the country. This is going to be very something very massive. It’s going to require a lot of people to work together on this,' he said.

'Qualified citizens' - for which the criteria has not been revealed - will live in the city and are free to leave at any point.

Residents will be use radio-frequency identification to enter the city and dormitories inside one of the four neighborhoods, as well as other tasks like purchasing items with credit and job check-in.

The group plans on having 16-story dormitories, providing residents with sleeping quarters and communal bathrooms with private showers.

Each neighborhood will have a cafeteria, kitchen and several set eating times to adjust to community members' schedules.

Among the entertainment options, like arcades in every neighborhood, the neighborhoods will include communal TVs with tiered seating to fit multiple people.

The Citizens Again community will have storage units to accommodate the 150,000 residents living in the city

One of the more notable tasks is Citizens Again's plan to build underground tunnels for deliveries and workers to commute to their jobs outside the city.

The underground tunnels will help 'minimize disruption of citizen life.'

When residents are prepared to leave, they will receive therapy in addition to skills training.

'It will be a city they’ll want to live in, a community they’ll want to be part of, and for those that desire, an opportunity to gain life skills to integrate back into society,' the website said.

The group set up a GoFundMe to raise 50,000 on Wednesday and so far has received $820.

Citizens Again's plan is just one of many alternatives being presented to combat the California's homeless crisis.

The United States Interagency Council on Homelessness says that as of January 2018, California had an estimated 129,972 residents experiencing homelessness on any given day.

Citizens Again reports that the federal government spent $6.1billion on the homeless, with around 78 percent of the amount going to those suffering chronic homelessness despite that group only making up 18 percent of that population.

The total budget has reportedly increased seven percent each year, between 2009 and 2018.

The United States Interagency Council on Homelessness says that as of January 2018, California had an estimated 129,972 residents experiencing homelessness on any given day.

Of that total, more than 10,000 were veterans and 34,000 were people experiencing chronic homelessness.

In San Francisco, residents have resorted to erecting plywood slabs over alleyways and placing large boulders on sidewalks to keep homeless citizens from setting up camp.

San Francisco, as well as other California cities, have undergone a homeless crisis that has permeated into every day and affected thousands of people

Pictured: a homeless man sleeps on a makeshift bed made of pieces cardboard pieces in San Francisco

According to ABC 7, neighbors say 'Ingleside Path' in the Ingleside neighborhood has attracted a wayward crowd and the City of San Francisco has done nothing on their part to make residents feel safe.

Vice-chair of the Ocean Avenue Association, Miles Escobedo, said: 'Once again San Francisco not taking care of its mentally ill and not taking care of the drug problem that is terrifying the entire city.'

The alleyway, spanning Ocean Avenue and Urbano Street, is found between homes costing a million dollars or more.

The San Francisco City Performance Scorecard reports that there are 9,784 individuals that meet the federal definition of homeless in 2019 - rising 30 percent more than the 2017 count

The average household income for the neighborhood is $106,248.80 and it is overwhelmingly white collar.

In response, a frustrated resident in the Ingleside District erected a plywood wall to block an alleyway plagued by drug deals and human excrement thanks to homeless people using it as a public toilet

The person who erected the plywood wall wished to remain anonymous, but told ABC 7 that Ingleside Path has been a source of contention for some time.

'This walkway has been a burden on city resources for some time now. The walkway requires multiple trips a week for power washing and city records confirm that over 100 calls were received for emergency services,' the neighbor said.

Before that, people in Clifton Park placed a dozen boulders on residential sidewalks to stop homeless camps from squatting in neighborhoods.

Advocates said the boulders (pictured), which were eventually moved by city officials due to road safety hazard, was a 'anti-homeless architecture'

Residents in Clinton Park, placed two dozen boulders (pictured) on neighborhood sidewalks in an attempt to stop homeless people from camping in front of their homes in September

Several neighbors combined a few hundred dollars to buy the boulders and placed them in a row near street curbs.

A spokeswoman from the San Francisco Public Works department said the city was not involved in the boulder placement and originally said they would not remove the boulders because they weren't blocking the main walkway.

This response angered advocates who said the boulder placement was 'anti-homeless architecture'.

Authorities eventually removed the boulders after saying they posed a road safety hazard.

San Francisco, and other parts of California, are in the midst of a growing battle with a homelessness crisis.

The Tenderloin district, found in the northern part of the city, is a particular grievance for residents who want to clean up the area.

Pictured: several homeless residents erected a camp on Martin Luther King Jr. Way in Oakland, California

The Tenderloin district hosts a series of addicts and homeless who reportedly leave behind human waste, as well as used needles.

The city set up public toilets in an attempt to combat this and last year the formation of the 'poop patrol', a special six-person team tasked with cleaning up the feces around San Francisco, was announced.

San Francisco also funded an initiative to hire people to collect used needles off the street.

The San Francisco City Performance Scorecard reports that there are 9,784 individuals that meet the federal definition of homeless in 2019 - rising 30 percent more than the 2017 count.

Jeff Kositsky, the director for the Department of Homelessness and Supportive Housing, estimates that 20,000 homeless people reside or pass through San Francisco any given year.

Even with the rise of the homeless crisis and residents calling for action, only five percent of the city's total budget is used to combat homelessness.

San Francisco set up the 'poop patrol' last year, a special six-person team tasked with cleaning up the feces around the city

The city has faced government and federal criticism in addition to resident outcry.

President Donald Trump visited California in mid-September and subsequently unleashed a very public condemnation of San Francisco's homeless crisis.

Trump blamed 'liberal policies' for the crisis and said city officials were allowing waste to filter through storm drains leading to the ocean.

Both President Donald Trump (left) and EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler (right) have publicly blasted San Francisco for their ongoing homeless crisis

'It's a terrible situation that's in Los Angeles and in San Francisco,' Trump said of the issue.

He has since made homelessness in major U.S. cities a campaign issue going into the 2020 election.

The Environmental Protection Agency accused the state of California of failing to protect residents from 'degraded water.'

In a letter from Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler, he addressed Gov. Gavin Newsom.

The letter said: 'California needs to fulfill its obligation to protect its water bodies and, more importantly, public health, and it should take this letter as notice that EPA is going to insist that it meets its environmental obligations.'

'If California does not step up to its delegated responsibilities, then EPA will be forced to take action.'

The letter directly linked the alleged water pollution to the homelessness crisis.

President Donald Trump (pictured) has made homelessness in major U.S. cities a campaign issue of his going into the 2020 election

Although the Trump administration has told San Francisco and California to clean up its act, they're unwilling to pay for it.

Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson rejected a housing aid request from Gov. Newson and mayors from the state's 13 biggest cities.

The request asked for additional resources to fight homelessness, including 50,000 housing vouchers for the poor.

Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson (pictured) rejected a housing aid request from California Gov. Gavin Newsom and mayors from the state's 13 largest cities

Carson said: 'Your letter seeks more federal dollars for California from hardworking American taxpayers but fails to admit that your state and local policies have played a major role in creating the current crisis.'

Carson implied that California's law enforcement policies, over-regulated housing market and sanctuary city policies are the root problem.

San Francisco Mayor London Breed released a statement contrary to the EPA's claims and pushed back at Trump.

She said: 'I'm sick of this president taking swipes at our city for no reason other than politics.'

'There are no needles washing out to the Bay or ocean from our sewer system, and there is no relationship between homelessness and water quality in San Francisco. It's just not a real issue.'

San Francisco Mayor London Breed (pictured) publicly pushed back against the Trump administration's concerns

A spokesperson for the governor, Nathan Click, said: 'This is not about clean air, clean water or helping our state with homelessness. This is political retribution against California, plain and simple.'

A former director of the EPA's Office of Science and Technology, points out that homelessness is a small fraction of the problem.

Despite Wheeler's claims, San Francisco city officials say their sewage system has 'never, ever drop[ed] untreated sewage into the Bay or ocean.'

Eric Shaeffer, former head of civil enforcement at the EPA and director of the Environmental Integrity Project, said the latest attacks from the Trump administration are retaliation.

'It makes no sense to decide that homeless encampments are a major priority for Clean Water Act enforcement, when EPA has done so little to enforce illegal discharges from much larger sources across the U.S.'