After stumbling on the road, NBL leaders Sydney Kings will be out to regain their swagger with a run of five straight games in NSW starting on Monday night.

Runaway ladder leaders not so long ago, the Kings are now looking over their shoulder after suffering their third loss in four games in an upset riddled round 12 - Saturday night's shock 87-80 defeat in Brisbane.

But Sydney will be hoping there is no place like home as they attempt to regain their Midas touch against sixth-placed South East Melbourne Phoenix on Monday night.

It kick-starts a dream draw over the next three weeks for the Kings, including four home matches and a New Year's Eve showdown against last-placed Illawarra Hawks in Wollongong.

After a stunning 11-1 season start, Sydney looked almost certain to lock up a finals spot by Christmas.

However, the Kings (12-4) are now barely clinging to their ladder lead ahead of second-placed Perth (12-6) who they host on Saturday night.

Indeed defending champions Perth could have snatched top spot, however, they were upstaged at home by third-placed Melbourne United 87-74 on Saturday night.

It was the Victorian outfit's first win in Perth since January 2018, ending a five-game losing streak in WA.

It seems Sydney have more homework to do before their blockbuster against the Wildcats after being upset by the seventh-placed Bullets (7-9).

Will Magnay (23 points) helped Brisbane snap a nine-game losing streak against the Kings, who were let down by woeful shooting.

Sydney let a 12-point second quarter lead slip after shooting 27 of 67 from the field including just eight of 36 from outside the arc.

"If one bad shot starts to affect our energy, we need to do a better job in not letting it," Kings coach Will Weaver said.

"We will find that balance. We have got a group of guys who are way more experienced, smarter and tougher than I am and we will all start working on that puzzle right away."

Phoenix (7-8) are also looking to bounce back after kick-starting the round of boilovers with a 90-84 loss to second last New Zealand in Christchurch on Friday night.

Breakers import Scotty Hopson (24 points) stepped up in the absence of Corey Webster who was released mid-week to take up a lucrative deal in China.

Hopson backed up to hit 21 points in the Breakers' 91-89 win over the Hawks in Wollongong on Sunday.

Meanwhile, Cairns Taipans (8-9) jumped from sixth to fourth spot when they capped a horror round for Adelaide with a 94-86 home win over the 36ers on Sunday.

Adelaide dropped out of the top four to fifth after failing to respond to their shock 93-84 home loss to the Hawks on Friday night.