The Morning Show host Larry Emdur is known for his affable wit.

And on Saturday, the 55-year-old showed his signature good humour when he faced a giant goanna near his Sydney home.

Taking to Instagram, Larry showed the encounter with the reptile.

Watch out! The Morning Show host Larry Emdur, 55, (pictured) faced off with a giant goanna near his Sydney home on Saturday, with him sharing the clip to Instagram

The TV star was walking on a boardwalk, with the goanna sunning himself.

As Larry inched closer, the goanna started to move off the boardwalk.

'Turns out I'm not the only prehistoric scaly lizard living here,' he wrote, jokingly.

Old friend! 'Turns out I'm not the only prehistoric scaly lizard living here,' he wrote, jokingly.

It comes after Larry joked he received one of Elon Musk's Telsa Cybertrucks for his recent birthday from wife Sylvie.

In a post shared to Instagram, Sylvie smiled while holding up a laptop screen which showed a pre-order confirmation notice.

He captioned the post: 'Omg! Best birthday present ever! Best wife ever. Sylvie, you're even more amazing than Elon Musk and I love you both very much.'

Sunning himself: The goanna quickly got off the boardwalk when he felt footsteps

However, the 'present' appeared to be a joke.

Larry recently appealed directly to the Tesla founder himself for more information about the futuristic vehicle.

Earlier this month, Larry and his wife Sylvie celebrated their 25th wedding anniversary, sharing gushing posts to each other.

'Best wife ever': The Morning Show host revealed that his wife, Sylvie, had pre-ordered the truck as a present. The 'present' appeared to be a joke

Taking to Instagram, Larry shared a throwback snap of the couple sharing a passionate kiss in the Maldives.

The photograph was taken during their second wedding anniversary.

Reflecting on their silver anniversary, Sylvie shared a tribute to Larry and the life they have built together.

'Who would have thought. 25 years, you and me. We are meant to be. Love you even more. Now that you're older and a little bolder,' she wrote.