Three unoccupied passenger buses caught fire at the LAX-it parking facility at Los Angeles International Airport on Saturday night, fire officials said

Los Angeles Fire Department crews arrived at the Uber, Lyft and taxi departure facility at around 9.27pm where they found the large blaze, the LAFD said in a press release.

Two of the buses - which are powered with liquid propane - were ablaze and causing substantial damage to the third bus.

Scroll down for video

Los Angeles Fire Department crews arrived at the Uber, Lyft and taxi departure facility at around 9.27pm on Saturday night where they found the large blaze

Fire officials took roughly 20 minutes to fully put out the flames and reported that there were no injuries or subsequent hazards identified.

'Though the fire's cause remains under investigation, there is NO reason to consider it suspicious at this time,' LAFD added in their release.

Video filmed by a bystander shows the powerful blaze burning through the buses.

People can be seen looking at the fire as it burns and as crews work to stop it.

No injuries were reported at the scene and officials said that there was no subsequent hazards identified

'Though the fire's cause remains under investigation, there is NO reason to consider it suspicious at this time,' LAFD added in their release

The parking facility was temporarily closed as crews worked to clean up the debris from the blaze.

LAX-It reported at 10.25pm that the parking facility was 'fully back in operation.'

'Shuttles are dropping off passengers and taxis, Uber and Lyft are picking up guests.

LAX created a new ride-share pickup zone called 'LAXit', pronounced as L.A. Exit, in November and banned, Lyft and taxis from picking up passengers from the curbside.

With the new LAXit process, travelers have to board a shuttle bus or walk to the pickup area to hail a ride home from the second-busiest airport in the nation.

At the beginning of last month the new system rolled out but led to packed shuttles, wait times of an hour and 40 minutes, and heavy traffic.

Last month, LAX announced it will expand Laxit by 50 per cent by Wednesday morning, adding three lanes to expand the lot.