She's an actress and filmmaker, directing 2017's Lady Bird and the upcoming Barbie movie starring Margot Robbie.

And on Saturday evening, Greta Gerwig, 36, stepped out in New York for the 92Y Screening and Conversation for her new movie, Little Women.

For her evening look, she rocked a chick gray blazer and black dress while posing on the carpet before heading inside to the event.

Looking good: On Saturday evening, Greta Gerwig, 36, stepped out in New York for the 92Y Screening and Conversation for her new movie, Little Women

She had her short blonde hair style in loose waves while rocking a minimal makeup look.

She left her blazer unbuttoned to show off her simple black dress that came down past her knees.

To finish off the look, She wore a pair of knee high black boots for the cold evening in the Big Apple.

Stylish: She had her short blonde hair style in loose waves while rocking a minimal makeup look

Director: She left her blazer unbuttoned to show off her simple black dress that came down past her knees

Recently, while out promoting her latest project Little Women she revealed that Cardi B was her inspiration behind her journey through motherhood.

'I was pregnant and no one knew, and I would go home at night and watch Cardi B's Instagram videos about her pregnancy -- and they were incredible,' she revealed while on The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon.

'I was like, she's AMAZING! She's making music videos and complaining about things! She's wonderful!'

Her inspiration: Recently, while out promoting her latest project Little Women she revealed that Cardi B was her inspiration behind her journey through motherhood

Powerful women: Greta posed with Annette Insdorf as part of the conversation and the special screen for the film

Greta is currently staying busy while out promoting her latest project, Little Women which hits theaters on Christmas Day.

But while she 'doesn't recall' reading the book for the first time she revealed 'I always knew who the Marches were,' she said during an interview with the New York Times. 'It got absorbed into the fabric of who I was.'

This will be the eighth film adaptation of the novel by Louisa May Alcott starring Emma Watson, Laura Dern, Timothée Chalamet, and many more famous A-listers.