Hilary Duff is officially off the market.

She wed her partner of nearly three-years, Matthew Koma, in an intimate backyard ceremony on Saturday.

The couple welcomed a daughter, Banks, in October 2018 and announced their engagement in May of this year.

Wedding bells: Hilary Duff married Matthew Koma in an intimate backyard ceremony on Saturday night, at their LA home

'It was a love-fest – a small and intimate ceremony at her house with friends and family,' a source told Just Jared of their nuptials.

The Lizzie McGuire star's longtime hair stylist Jessica Paster teased a wedding on Instagram the day they said 'I do.'

She posted a bouquet of flowers writing: 'Winter solstice...A day of luv.'

Hint: The Lizzie McGuire star's longtime hair stylist Jessica Paster teased a wedding on Instagram the day they said 'I do.' She posted a bouquet of flowers writing: 'Winter solstice...A day of luv'

Hilary began dating the songwriter back in January 2017, a year after her divorce from Mike Comrie was finalized, two years after separating.

She and Comrie share a son, Luca, aged seven.

Hilary and Matthew worked together on her 2015 album Breath In...Breathe Out on which he co-wrote and produced songs.

Rumors swirled the couple secretly married earlier this year, after Matthew posted a black and white photo of his fiance captioned, 'wife.'

Baby girl: The couple welcomed their daughter Banks in October 2018 and got engaged the following May

Though in November the Younger star said 'No, we are not secretly married, but we are basically married, so you know, sometimes those little things slip out.'

It's a busy time for Duff whose TV Land sitcom Younger has been renewed for a seventh season.

She's also currently filming a Lizzie McGuire reboot series for the Disney Plus streaming service.

Blended family: Hilary is also mother to Luca, 7, who she shares with ex-husband Mike Comrie

The original series ran from 2001 to 2004 and spawned The Lizzie McGuire Movie that was released in theaters in 2003.

And if that wasn't enough, she recently hinted that she has some new music coming soon.

Last Saturday, she shared a photo of herself wearing headphones in a recording studio with Koma prompting her fans to speculate that she's working on an album.