Tim Tams, chocolate milk and a supermarket label instant coffee were among the nation's tastiest foods this year, according to a new survey.

Australian consumer group CHOICE revealed the 10 foods that topped its blind taste tests in 2019, across categories like bread, cheese, biscuits, butter and sauce.

Brands largely triumphed over supermarket-own labels, with homegrown names like Arnotts, Milo and Uncle Toby's named best in class for flavour, except for coffee where Coles' in-house instant blend came out on top.

CHOICE food expert Rachel Clemons said it's always nice when 'a top-tasting product also happens to be one of the cheapest'.

Arnott's chocolate Tim Tams unsurprisingly took the title for the nation's best tasting biscuit, taking 61 percent of the vote

CHOICE judges put Australian childhood classic Milo to the test against Aldi alternative NRG Maxx, but the national treasure held out with a resounding 66 percent of the vote

COFFEE

Coles Fair Trade Organic Freeze Dried Coffee beat out big brand names like Moccona, Nescafe and Lavazza to be named the best tasting coffee of 2019, the only supermarket-own label to receive a mention.

And at $4 a jar, the instant coffee packs a punch on value as well as flavour.

Moccona ranked number two, followed by Nature's Cuppa Organic Coffee in the blind test.

TEA

Australians prefer the British approach to tea, with $5 Taylors of Harrogate Yorkshire Tea 'Proper Black Tea' topping the taste test of 16 teas with a resounding score of 80 percent.

Bushells Blue Label was second, with Lipton English Breakfast tea rounding out the top three.

Coles Fair Trade Organic Freeze Dried Coffee (left) beat out big brand names to be named the best tasting coffee of 2019, while Taylors of Harrogate Yorkshire Tea 'Proper Black Tea' (right) topped the taste test of 16 teas with a resounding score of 80 percent

BISCUITS

Arnott's chocolate Tim Tams unsurprisingly took the title for the best tasting biscuit, taking 61 percent of the vote.

The nation's favourite treat was compared with Aldi's similar 'Just Divine' biscuits, but testers could easily spot the difference.

A selection of Tim Tam flavours are currently reduced from $3.65 to $2.50 at Woolworths.

MUESLI BARS

Judges nibbled on muesli bars from big brands like Nature Valley and Carman's, alongside own label offerings from discount retailer Aldi.

But homegrown breakfast cereal giant Uncle Toby's came out on top, specifically its Chewy Chocolate Chip flavour, which was voted number one for taste and nutritional value.

With less than 600 kilojoules per serve, the healthy bars are equally suitable as a post-workout snack or in children's lunchboxes.

Uncle Toby's are available from major supermarkets like Coles and Woolworths and cost $6.45 for packs of 12.

Australian breakfast cereal giant Uncle Toby's came out on top in the muesli bar category, specifically its Chewy Chocolate Chip flavour which was voted number one for taste and nutritional value

CHEESE

Judges blind tested a selection of 36 supermarket shredded cheeses from brands like Aldi, Coles, Woolworths and Devondale, but failed to reach a clear consensus in this category.

Five brands achieved a score of 80 percent or higher, meaning they delivered on both taste and nutrition.

Perfect Italiano Mozzarella was the outright winner with 84 percent, closely followed by Mil Lel Shredded Mozzarella on 83 percent and Coles Australian Mozzarella, Devondale Mozzarella and Mil Lel Shredded Baking Blend with 80 percent each.

HAM

Don Traditional Premium Thick Cut 'Ham off the Bone' took the title for best tasting ham, with a 76 per cent score for flavour.

Hot on its heels were D'Orsogna Premium Sweet Honey Leg Ham, followed by Aldi's Berg Smallgoods Shaved Honey Ham in third.

Perfect Italiano Mozzarella (left) was the outright winner in the cheese category with a score of 84 percent, while Don Traditional Premium Thick Cut 'Ham off the Bone' (right) took the title for best tasting ham, with a 76 percent score for flavour

BREAD

Of 30 supermarket slice breads - 24 regular and six gluten-free - $3.40 Wonder Wholegrain White Smooth received the highest score for taste.

Supermarket-own labels dominated the gluten-free options, with Aldi's Has No Gluten Free Sliced White Bread and Coles Gluten Free White Bread coming out on top at affordable costs of just 80 cent and 90 cent respectively.

BUTTER

Iconic Danish dairy giant Lurpak was named best tasting butter of the year from a list of 33 supermarket options, including Devondale, Mainland, Pepe Saya and Western Star.

At $2 per 100g, the Danish butter was also one of the most expensive surveyed.



Iconic Danish dairy giant Lurpak (left) was named best tasting butter of the year from a list of 33 supermarket options, while Wonder Wholegrain White Smooth (right) received the highest score for taste for bread

FLAVOURED MILK

Australia has enjoyed a long running love affair with Milo, a homegrown chocolate powder usually mixed with hot water and milk known as a childhood classic.

CHOICE judges put the national treasure to the test against Aldi alternative NRG Maxx, but $9 Milo held out with a resounding 66 percent of the vote.

Still, one third of blind testers chose the Aldi product as their favourite, and at half the price it's a solid option for frugal shoppers looking to stretch the household budget a little further.

TOMATO SAUCE

Community Co 'A Squeeze of Tomato Sauce' ranked number one in the hotly contested condiment category.

The popular sauce, which is made in Australia from 98 percent Australian ingredients, was one of the cheapest products tested in the trial, at a cost of just 30 cent per 100ml or $1.50 per bottle.