He was spotted this year at many Cronulla Sharks games and the cricket

Mr Morrison has found plenty of time to relax at football games black tie events

He said Australians would understand that he needed a break after a hard year

Mr Morrison was criticised after holidaying while the nation battled a bushfires

Scott Morrison defended his jaunt to Hawaii, arguing 'fair-minded' Australians understood he needed a break after a difficult year, but photos show the prime minister finding plenty of time to let his hair down.

Mr Morrison faced a heated press conference on Sunday after he returned from Hawaii where he, wife Jenny, and their two daughters had been holidaying.

He cut his trip short after being widely condemned for sneaking off overseas while Australia battled one of it's worst bushfire disasters in history. His office did not inform the public he had left the country and when quizzed by media offered bizarre excuses to hide his whereabouts.

A photo of a group of Australian tourists who claimed to be with Prime Minister Scott Morrison (second from right) emerged on social media. Mr Morrison was heavily criticised for going on holidays while the nation burned

'Australians are fair-minded. They know, at the end of a difficult year, people go on leave,' he said.

'And they know that when a dad makes a promise to the kids, they like to keep it.

'I think that's what dads try and do if they can, when they've been working hard all year.

'I know there are lots of dads and mums out there who've been working hard all year try to treat their kids at this time of year, and that's what I was trying to do.'

While Mr Morrison has had a jam-packed year with a federal election, crippling drought crisis and a landmark tax reform, he has still managed to squeeze in plenty of beers and trips to the footy.

Mr Morrison downs a can of beer while acting as 'water boy' during an international rugby league game in Fiji in October

In November, Mr Morrison was pictured chatting with former Australian cricket captain Steve Smith ahead of the Gabba test.

He was slammed after he wrote a tweet telling bushfire-affected Australians the cricket should cheer them up.

'Going to be a great summer of cricket,' he said.

'And for our firefighters and fire-impacted communities, I'm sure our boys will give them something to cheer for.'

He was instantly criticised for his 'insensitive' tone, with one person saying his 'empathy consultant must've taken the day off work'.

Scott Morrison chats to Steve Smith during a cricket training session at the Gabba on November 20, 2019

Scott Morrison takes out drinks to players during the Prime Ministers XI v Sri Lanka T20 cricket match at Manuka Oval in Canberra, on October 24, 2019.

Mr Morrison was again spotted at the cricket, this time running the water for the Prime Minister's XI as they took on Sri Lanka at Manuka Oval in Canberra.

In October, Mr Morrison was spotted downing a can of beer while acting as 'water boy' during an international rugby league game in Fiji.

An unflattering photograph of the 51-year-old drinking quickly did the rounds on social media, sparking fierce debate on whether the act was appropriate or not.

'This shot brings home the bogan,' one person wrote on Twitter.

'I'm a true blue bogan and I am beyond embarrassed by this clown's antics,' wrote another commenter.

Mr Morrison runs the water for the Australian rugby league team in Fiji in October during an international match

In April, Mr Morrison was mocked for a 'cringeworthy' celebration when his beloved Cronulla Sharks scored a try during a remarkable comeback victory against the Penrith Panthers.

He showed off his moves when his team crossed the line, though there was conjecture over whether he was actually dancing or shadow boxing.

The Sharks number one ticket holder could be seen on camera clapping along with the crowd at one of the many home games he has attended this season.

He seemingly began to dance by rolling his arms on top of one another when he realised he was on the scoreboard screen.

Mr Morrison dances in celebration when his beloved Cronulla Sharks scored a try in April

The Prime Minister takes in the Cronulla Sharks v Manly Sea Eagles at Shark Park on May 19, 2019

Mr Morrison cheers his team against Penrith Panthers at Pointsbet Stadium in Sydney on April 18, 2019

The the Cronulla Sharks #1 ticket holder waves his scarf at a game against the Manly Sea Eagles at Pointsbet Stadium in Sydney on May 19, 2019

Mr Morrison's 'difficult year' has also been packed with many black-tie functions and glamorous engagements.

In September, Mr Morrison became just the second foreign leader to attend a U.S. state dinner since the Trump administration began three years ago and the first Australian prime minister to score an invite since George W Bush hosted John Howard in 2006.

The Washington gala event, to hosted by President Trump and First Lady Melania in the White House rose garden, featured the who's who of Australia, including golfing great Greg Norman and some billionaire mining and media tycoons.

Mrs Morrison shone in a sparkly dark navy halter gown from Australian designer Carla Zampatti and matching shawl with her hair pinned up in a chic updo while Melania opted for a frilly light green J Mendel frock.

Mr Morrison and US President Donald Trump speak in the Rose Garden outside the White House for a state dinner in Washington, DC, on September, 20, 2019

Mr Morrison and his wife Jenny with Mr Trump and first lady Melania in front of the White House ahead of their official state dinner

Mr Morrison and US President Donald Trump were reportedly enjoying a bromance while toasting to '100 years of mateship and to 100 more'

The Australian Prime Minister and US President laughs during a meeting in the Oval Office at White House in Washington, DC, September 20, 2019

In August, Morrison headed to France for the G7 Summit but cut a lonely figure during an official photo opportunities.

He looked awkward and slightly out of place while engaging with other world leaders after being invited by French President Emmanuel Macron.

Mr Morrison was left to stare at his phone as Mr Trump mingled with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Canadian PM Justin Trudeau and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson.

He looked on glum as Mr Trump embraced Brigitte Macron as footage showed the leaders socialising.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison stands alone at a photo session at the G7 Summit in France in August

Footage showed the leaders socialising while a glum-looking Mr Morrison stood alone in the background, despite his wife Jenny being present



