After boasting about her busy but 'amazing' week in the spotlight, Mariah Carey finally got to enjoy some down time with boyfriend, and former backup dancer , Bryan Tanaka.

The happy couple were spotted while out getting in some late Christmas shopping in Aspen, Colorado on Saturday.

And from the looks of their big glowing smiles, the pair couldn't be happier now that they've settled into their Christmas Getaway out west.

Holiday cheer! Mariah Carey, 49, and boyfriend Bryan Tanaka, 36, were all smiles when they went Christmas shopping in Aspen, Colorado on Saturday

The legendary crooner showed off her womanly curves in black leggings and a black, brown and white ski jacket that came down to her mid-thigh.

She also rocked a pair of black stiletto boots and wore her blonde tresses long and flowing well past the middle of her back, with plenty of curls and a part in the middle.

At times she wore a pair of dark sunglasses, to help enhance her chances of keeping her anonymity.

Ready for the slopes: Carey, 49, wore a pair of black leggings with a black, brown and white ski jacket and black stiletto heel boots

On the hunt: Carey and Tanaka were spotted browsing at a Gucci store

Iconic: The legendary singer attracted the attention of fans when she left the Gucci store

The Always Be My Baby star browsed through a number of stores including Gucci.

Tanaka was never to far from her side, dressed in an all-black ensemble of pants, long-sleeve shirt, furry-colored jacket and laced leather boots.

After checking out an assortment of items, the couple enjoyed a brisk walk down the bustling streets as they packed on the PDA by holding hands.

Lovebirds: After checking out an assortment of items, the couple enjoyed a brisk walk down the bustling streets as they packed on the PDA by holding hands

Romance in the air: The couple have had an on-off relationship since 2016

Their holiday trip to the winter wonderland comes after the legendary singer took to social media to share her thanks for her recent sold out show at Madison Square Garden, a super-festive tour wrap party, and hitting number number one on the Billboard Hot 100 with the reissue of her song All I Want For Christmas.

She also gushed about flipping the switch to light up the Empire State Building in New York City and for taking over and performing on the Late Late Show With James Corden.

'Christmas truly did come early this year, but it's really just the beginning! New music video debuts tomorrow night! ahhh!!! #excited #MC25,' she caption her Instagram post.

Carey and Tanaka have been dating on and off since 2016.