It was the weekend that saw Liverpool preserve their firm grip on the title race despite not even playing a Premier League match, as Leicester were beaten by Manchester City.

There was another shocking defeat for Manchester United at rock bottom Watford, while apprentice defeated master as Frank Lampard's Chelsea won at Jose Mourinho's Tottenham.

We take a look at 10 things we learned from another intriguing weekend in the top-flight.

1. Pep Guardiola stuck to his guns and was vindicated

The prospect of either Nicolas Otamendi or Fernandinho getting into a footrace with Jamie Vardy was not one Pep Guardiola would have wanted to contemplate as Man City faced Leicester.

And when Vardy sprinted beyond Fernandinho and onto a pass from Harvey Barnes to give the Foxes a 22nd minute lead, it seemed those fears had been realised.

Pep Guardiola stuck to his game plan despite Jamie Vardy's goal and gained the rewards

But despite losing recently to Liverpool and Manchester United, which could easily have affected City's confidence, they stuck to what they know best and went on to dominate and win.

Guardiola didn't drop anybody back to cover the centre-halves and urged his wing-backs Kyle Walker and Benjamin Mendy to continue pushing forward.

City saw most of their possession in Leicester's half, played 684 passes to Leicester's 397, and had 23 shots to Leicester's five, eventually winning 3-1.

It just goes to show that suffering an early setback doesn't necessarily have to mean a drastic redraw of best-laid plans.

Jamie Vardy raced away from Fernandinho to score Leicester City's opener at the Etihad

2. You have to love a manager prepared to sub a sub

For the second time in six days, Everton's caretaker manager Duncan Ferguson was absolutely ruthless as he decided to remove a player he'd brought on earlier.

If he left everyone scratching their heads at Old Trafford last weekend when taking off Moise Kean after just 18 minutes on the pitch, his actions against Arsenal made more sense.

Cenk Tosun had come on in the 12th minute for the injured Alex Iwobi but completely failed to make an impression and was replaced by Kean with 10 minutes to play.

Cenk Tosun blanks his manager Duncan Ferguson after being subbed off against Arsenal

Ferguson's stern expression as the Turkish striker walked off the pitch and straight down the tunnel told you precisely how he rated his performance.

Mind you, he was far from alone in a terrible spectacle. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang didn't exactly excite any January suitors, though he did have the game's only two shots on target.

It summed up the respective tasks ahead for Carlo Ancelotti and Mikel Arteta.

3. Is Danny Ings playing himself into England contention?

There's always talk in a tournament year about players who make a late case for inclusion in the England squad.

And refreshingly, the three highest scorers in the Premier League at the moment are all English.

Jamie Vardy is in blistering form but Gareth Southgate will need to be persuasive after the Leicester City man stepped back from international duty last year.

Danny Ings fires home Southampton's third goal against Aston Villa in a crucial victory

Tammy Abraham is likely to make the squad for Euro 2020 after his fine form for Chelsea. But what about Ings?

He has the same number of goals as Abraham - 11 - and in a far worse team. The Southampton man has seven goals in his last seven league outings and will be a huge factor if they stay up.

After suffering plenty of bad luck with injuries, Ings is showing us again what he is capable of.

Ings could make a late dart for the England squad if he continues his current scoring form

'It's nice for England that they have a lot of very good strikers and Ings is one of them,' said Saints boss Ralph Hassenhuttl after his double in a vital 3-1 win at Aston Villa.

'Danny is fantastic at the moment, he's absolutely outrageous at the moment and I'm very happy for him.'

So will Southgate take note?

4. Howe urgently needs Bournemouth injury crisis to ease

Given what he has accomplished at Bournemouth, Eddie Howe must be the Premier League's most unsackable manager.

But if their slide down the table continues, then his position may soon come into jeopardy. After Saturday's late defeat by Burnley, the Cherries are 14th, just four points above the drop zone.

There are mitigating circumstances, however, as the one table Bournemouth are presently topping is the league's most injury-ravaged.

Eddie Howe needs Bournemouth's present injury crisis to ease as they slip down the table

Nathan Ake, Adam Smith, Steve Cook, Harry Wilson, Charlie Daniels and David Brooks are all missing at the moment and it helps explain a run of just two wins in 13 matches in all competitions.

At least England striker Callum Wilson made a return as a half-time substitute, though he failed to fire in a game that featured just one shot on target - Jay Rodriguez's winner.

With the busiest time of the season coming up, Howe could do with a change of luck.

Striker Callum Wilson returned from injury on Saturday as a substitute in the loss to Burnley

5. Blades away record is testament to Wilder brilliance

Chris Wilder absolutely has the Midas touch at the moment. His decision to swap regular striker Lys Mousset for Oli McBurnie at Brighton was fully vindicated when he grabbed the winner.

But when they won promotion to the Premier League, Sheffield United would have been forgiven for thinking: 'Let's turn Bramall Lane into a fortress and pick up what we can on the road.'

Instead, it's been the other way round. The Blades have become only the second newly-promoted side in the entire 131-year history of the English league to go unbeaten in their opening nine away games of a season.

Oliver McBurnie celebrates scoring Sheffield United's winner against Brighton on Saturday

Combine their resolute away day displays this season with their promotion charge from the Championship and it's now 18 away league games undefeated dating back to January 19.

Even Barcelona have lost more away games in England than Sheffield United this season.

It meant in this meeting of the two most exciting English managers in the division, it was Wilder who trumped Brighton's Graham Potter.

Mind you, United will be hard pressed to extend their unbeaten away run to a full 12 months. Their next two away games are against Manchester City and Liverpool.

It was another fine afternoon for Chris Wilder with his Blades side fifth at Christmas

6. We should all be pleased for Almiron

Miguel Almiron's long search for a first Newcastle United goal reminded you of Diego Forlan at Manchester United and Fernando Torres at Chelsea.

Many attack-minded players come with sky-high expectations but then take a little while to get going, though admittedly not many go 27 Premier League games firing blanks.

But what can't be questioned is the Paraguayan's dedication to Newcastle and his work ethic. Almiron has illuminated many a dreary Newcastle game with his pace and trickery.

'Day in, day out, he works and works, but unfortunately he's not been able to manage a goal,' said his manager Steve Bruce after Saturday's winner against Crystal Palace.

Delight for Miguel Almiron as he finally scored his first goal for Newcastle in his 27th game

'Today he's got the winner and we're all delighted for him. It took a long time, he's been unfortunate on so many occasions.'

It will certainly be the first of many now and with Newcastle ninth in the table, things are unexpectedly cheery on Tyneside.

And in a little Christmas quiz, can you name the other five Paraguayans who have scored in the Premier League? (Answers at the bottom)

7. Wolves' fighting spirit puts Champions League within their grasp

They may be five points behind Chelsea in fourth place at the moment but it would be foolish to completely count Wolves out of a Champions League place.

After all, Nuno Espirito Santo's side have still only lost just three matches this season and their resilience is second to none.

They have gone 1-0 behind on 11 occasions this season but have actually then gone on to lose just three times.

Raul Jimenez slams home Wolves' winner against Norwich as they fought back once again

Saturday's come-from-behind win at Norwich was another case in point as goals from Romain Saiss and Raul Jimenez - the 16th of a stunning season - saved the situation.

Many thought Wolves would be knackered by now as their early start in the Europa League really stretched their squad.

But as they sit sixth in the table, the expected drop-off certainly hasn't come just yet.

8. United need to go for Poch before it's too late

At what point do Manchester United's hierarchy realise that things really aren't getting any better under Ole Gunnar Solskjaer?

A miserable 2-0 defeat to a team rock bottom of the league, nine points from safety pre-match and with just one win all season must serve as a wake up and smell the coffee moment.

The club continues to place its faith in Solskjaer but any improvement at the moment is so incremental that it's almost negligible.

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer looks increasingly out of his depth as United lost to rock bottom Watford

How can United beat Tottenham and Manchester City but then turn in such an atrocious performance at Vicarage Road?

United are unbeaten against every single side currently above them in the table yet seem incapable of winning against those below them. It's a baffling state of affairs.

Five defeats in the league pre-Christmas and just six wins simply isn't good enough. Solskjaer is planning for the long-term, but United need to keep winning games.

Surely they would kick themselves if they stuck with Solskjaer, finished the season 10th and then saw Mauricio Pochettino appointed by another club?

United would be advised to make their move for Mauricio Pochettino before it's too late

9. Lampard's tactical masterclass showed how outdated Mourinho is

It was a true case of apprentice getting the better of master as Frank Lampard's Chelsea won 2-0 at Jose Mourinho's Tottenham on Sunday.

But there was nothing remotely fluky about the outcome - Chelsea were the superior team from first whistle to last as they took London bragging rights.

While it's true Mourinho hasn't been working with his Spurs side as long as Lampard, he was shown up here by his former player.

It appeared that Spurs were completely taken aback by Lampard's bold decision to set up in a 3-4-3 formation and simply didn't know how to counter it.

Apprentice beat master as Frank Lampard's Chelsea outclassed Jose Mourinho's Tottenham

That meant a first-half of Chelsea control and a two-goal lead at the break. It was a compliment to Lampard that Mourinho switched to a 3-4-3 at half-time to try and match Chelsea.

But it showed again that Mourinho now lacks the tactical dexterity to properly compete in the Premier League, reliant as always on 4-2-3-1.

They just couldn't create anything here with Harry Kane anonymous and frustrations boiling over after the break, as shown by the nature of Son Heung-min's red card.

Lampard is relatively new to management but comes with a freshness of thought and ideas that Mourinho can no longer offer.

10. Liverpool the weekend's real winners from 4,500 miles away

Not only did Liverpool lift the FIFA Club World Cup, becoming the world's best team for the first time, but they were cheered by results from back home.

Their 10-point lead at the top of the Premier League remains very much in tact after Leicester's defeat at Man City and they of course have a game in hand now.

Liverpool lift the Club World Cup - but there were glad tidings from back home as well

If they manage to beat Leicester on Boxing Day, we might as well call the title race off.

There have been some close shaves in the recent past but surely Jurgen Klopp's side won't chuck it away from a position of such strength this time.

Quiz answer: Diego Gavilan, Roque Santa Cruz, Antolin Alcaraz, Cristian Riveros and Fabian Balbuena are the other Paraguayan goalscorers in the Premier League