Eddie Murphy made his iconic return to Saturday Night Live after 35 years and had comedic giants Tracy Morgan, Chris Rock and Dave Chappelle tap in to offer their own two hilarious cents.

The 58-year-old legend opened Saturday night's show by talking about his 10 kids, getting a joke off about Bill Cosby in the process.

'I actually have 10 kids now,' he said to applause. '11 if you count Kevin Hart.'

Murphy continued: 'I love Kevin Hart so much but my kids are my whole life now.

'And if you would have told me 30 years ago that I would be this boring stay at home, father of 10 house dad, and Bill Cosby would be in prison, I would have took that bet. "Who is America's dad now?"'

The 58-year-old legend opened Saturday night's show by talking about his 10 kids, getting a joke off about Bill Cosby in the process

Some friends stopped by Eddie Murphy's monologue. #SNL pic.twitter.com/zUR8nnh3NJ — Saturday Night Live - SNL (@nbcsnl) December 22, 2019

The joke is an apparent dig at a bit from Murphy's 1987 concert film 'Eddie Murphy Raw' where the comedian told of a time when Cosby called him and berated him about cussing in his act.

According to Murphy in the bit, Cosby blasted his parenting skills and called him out as being a bad role model to his kids.

The 'Coming to America' superstar was announcing his upcoming sequel and recent Netflix film 'Dolemite is my Name' when Tracy Morgan came out on stage.

The two joked about a supposed sketch Morgan sent Murphy for the show before the Brooklyn comedian praised the show host.

Murphy was soon joined by Tracy Morgan, Chris Rock and Dave Chappelle

'Whatever you need, I got your back,' Morgan told Murphy. 'If it wasn't for you, I wouldn't be here. Like, like literally. I was conceived on the "Delirious" tour bus.'

'I don't know if that math works out,' Murphy retorted.

Chris Rock came out next and bragged about how he was there because his kids 'love Lizzo,' who was performing later on in the evening.

He also joked with Murphy about giving the comedian a '"Law and Order: SVU" uti sketch' for SNL.

'Instead of Ice T, it's cranberry juice,' Rock offered.

Chappelle lit up a cigarette while on the stage, in an apparent jab to Simon Cowell

Kenan Thompson joined the iconic comedians on the stage to close out the monologue

But Murphy clearly wasn't a fan and declared: 'That sounds kind of nasty for a Christmas show.'

Dave Chappelle was the last to come out of the legendary group, and he too joked about offering a sketch to Murphy.

He then told the host that he followed his 'blueprint' for his career. 'I became the biggest star I could on television and then I quit,' Chappelle said to laughter.

When one of the group asks when was the last time they all got together, someone offers that they were last together 'last Thursday at Sinbad's house.'

The group continued with their monologue and closed out the scene before Murphy appeared in a hilarious sketch about gentrification and playing off 'Mister Rogers' Neighborhood'

'You're looking at half of Netflix's budget,' Chappelle to the group, to which Morgan quickly corrected the masses.

'Not me, not me,' he said. 'I made all my money on the road.'

Murphy said: 'You mean from touring, right?'

Morgan quickly retorted: 'No, I got hit by a truck.'

The group continued with their monologue and closed out the scene before Murphy appeared in a hilarious sketch about gentrification and playing off 'Mister Rogers' Neighborhood.'

The skit paid homage to one Murphy did while with the show as a cast member under the name 'Mister Robinson'.

'My neighborhood has gone through so much. It has gone through something called gentrification,' Murphy said in the sketch before meeting two of his white neighbors

'My neighborhood has gone through so much. It has gone through something called gentrification,' Murphy said in the sketch.

He later added: 'It's like a magic trick. White people pay a lot of money and then poof! All the black people are gone. But where do they go, boys and girls? Back to where they come from, of course. Atlanta.'

Murphy as Mister Robinson talks about Squatter's rights before calling his white neighbors 'racist' when they ask if he stole their TV.

The sketch closes out with Mister Robinson exiting the home when he gets a visit from his son, who used a DNA kit to find out more about his father's identity.