She's an actress known for her dual role on the Disney Channel series, Liv and Maddie.

And despite her Disney origins, Dove Cameron, 23, displayed her rebellious side by getting her 11th tattoo while filming for her latest project, 24 Hours With Vogue.

During her busy day, the Disney alum showed off her lean figure and hew newest piece of art on her wrist in memory of her late friend Cameron Boyce.

Getting inked: Dove Cameron showed off her slim figure while at Ten Thousand Waves Tattoo Parlor during her shoot with Vogue where she was seen getting a tattoo in memory of her late friend Cameron Boyce

Checking it out: While shooting for 24 Hours with Dove Cameron for Vogue, she checked out her tattoo placement in the mirror alongside tattoo artist, Karen Costleigh

While on her way to the tattoo parlor, she revealed that she was going to get a gun with a flower coming out of it.

'I am very anti-gun, and I am very pro-gun regulation. And it's sort of like a nationally recognized symbol for peace and anti-gun movements,' she explained about her inspiration behind the tattoo.

'And also, my friend, Cameron, passed away a few months ago, and he was starting this organization called Wielding Peace. He wanted to get influential people holding things that sort of looked like they were in the shape of a gun, but then it would be something artistic or peaceful.'

'He did it with a bouquet of flowers actually, and I think that that's really beautiful and I've been trying to think a tattoo to get for him since he passed and I just felt that this one was really appropriate.'

Placement: While at the tattoo parlor, she checked out the tattoo placement on her wrist which consisted of a gun and a single flower coming out of it.

What does it mean? The actress revealed that she is anti-gun and this tattoo represents both peace and a tribute to her late friend Cameron Boyce

She had her hair slicked back into a style bun that showed off her vibrant blonde highlights.

Her tank top was simple and cropped right above her belly button for a flirty look. She paired the simple look with some black high-waisted denim jeans.

The young actress appeared to be in good spirits as she chatted away with her tattoo artist about the placement of her new ink.

Tatted: This was the Disney alum's 11th tattoo

Looking good! She had her hair slicked back into a style bun that showed off her vibrant blonde highlights

Back in July, after Boyce's tragic passing she spoke out about losing her good friend.

She took to her Instagram, as she tearfully read through a a note as she spoke about her memories with her Descedants costar.

'I felt really weird about posting about Cameron on social media because I felt really emotional and private and intimate and social media is the opposite of that,' she said in the video.

'I just couldn't quite reconcile the two or make them fit so I didn't know what I was going to do.'

She continued: 'I've decided that the only way to get through it right now is to be expressive and connective. The last 72 hours have felt like two weeks, and I've spent them trying to make my thoughts and feelings into words and communicate about anything I'm feeling.'

Later in the video she tried to find the words to sum up how special Cameron was saying: 'Cameron was one of my favorite people alive in the world. Though I know that's not unique to me, Cameron was magic — an earth angel. Over the last six years, since he was only 14, Cameron talked me down from countless ledges, talked me through eating disorders, helped me out of a dark relationship and through endless breakdowns.'

Cameron is no newcomer when it comes tattoos with her art ranging from quotes, zodiac symbols, and animals.

But one tattoo in particular stands out more than others: the one she got dedicated to her ex.

'When people say I am 'turning bad,' I just remind them I got my first tattoo when I was 14.' My best friend made friends with this guy who had a tattoo gun. He told us he'd been practicing on oranges and was ready,' she revealed during an interview with Refinery29.

Stylish: Her tank top was simple and cropped right above her belly button. She paired the simple look with a pair of black denim jeans

On her 18th birthday, she took things into her own hands and got a took to her own body to share her love for Ryan McCartan.

'It's my ex Ryan McCartan's sign, and the exact mirror placement on my other hip from my first tattoo. Years later, after we broke up, I realized that my mom always thought it was because I played twins on Liv and Maddie. So I said, 'Well, fuck it, now it is!'' she said of her ex's zodiac sign.

But that wasn't the only time she got inked up for love. She also has matching tattoos with her current boyfriend, Thomas Doherty.

Their matching lyrics come from The Light in the Piazza that says: 'I know what the sunlight can be.'

'Thomas and I weren't even dating yet, so it was very risqué to be getting a matching tattoo with this random guy, so good thing it worked out! We started dating a month later,' she revealed.

'But he told me he loved me a week before that, so it was a very whirlwind thing... Actors — they're crazy!'

Back then: Dove and Cameron Boyce pose during their Disney Channel days

In love: Dove and Thomas Doherty pose together at the Hollywood Foreign Press Association and The Hollywood Reporter Celebration event back in November

Back then: Ryan McCarten and Dove pose together at the 2016 Radio Disney Music Awards back in April 2016