KEY CONTENDERS IN THE SYDNEY TO HOBART RACE

Line Honours

Wild Oats XI - Competitive in almost all conditions, the peerless supermaxi is still a chance to increase her race record of nine line honours wins despite undergoing significant repairs after suffering damage last month.

Comanche - Skipper and co-owner Jim Cooney has avoided major modifications to his imposing boat which is almost impossible to beat in favourable conditions and will push for a third line honours win.

Black Jack - Widely tipped to threaten the Wild Oats XI-Comanche duopoly of recent years, this boat took line honours in 2009 as Alfa Romeo and has raced extensively this year and undergone changes.

SHK Scallywag 100 - The Hong Kong supermaxi has finished second and third across the line in previous attempts and was second in this year's Fastnet Race. Owner Seng Huang Lee has invested in modifications which should make her very competitive.

InfoTrack - Working on a tight budget and with a smaller crew than last year, this is the outsider among the five supermaxis, but given the right conditions she can trump the rest as she proved in 2016 as Perpetual LOYAL.

Overall honours

Ichi Ban - The most consistently-successful boat in major Australian ocean races over the past couple of years, Matt Allen's TP52 looms as the boat to beat after taking overall honours in 2017 and finishing fifth in 2018.

Quest - A two-time overall winner under different names and skippers, this is another TP52 which is always in the mix for a handicap win.

Daguet 3 - Now representing France, this 46-foot yacht has Hobart form under her original name Patrice, finishing third overall in 2017 and recently won Division 2 in the 2019 Sydney to Gold Coast race.

Maverick 49 - This well-performed 49-footer from Guernsey has racked up good results in the Transatlantic, Middle Sea Newport- Bermuda and Transpac.races.

Midnight Rambler - One of the best chances if it's small-boat race, this 36-foot yacht scored overall IRC wins in the 2019 RYCT Channel and Maria Island Races.