Tammy Hembrow is facing fierce competition as Australia's queen of Instagram.

Perth influencer Gracie Piscopo, 23, has been dubbed 'Tammy 2.0' due to her almost identical appearance to the Gold Coast sensation.

The women also share strikingly similar selfie poses, daring fashion choices and lifestyles as glamorous young mothers Down Under.

Spot the difference! Perth-based Instagram model Gracie Piscopo (right) has been dubbed 'Tammy Hembrow 2.0 (left)' due to their almost identical appearances

Gracie currently boasts 781,000 followers on Instagram, 246,000 subscribers on YouTube and over 23 million views on the video platform.

She has long been compared to Tammy by fans on forums, but after recently ditching her brunette locks for blonde, the pair now look eerily similar.

However, Gracie has some catching up to do, as Tammy has 10.3 million Instagram followers, 1.3 million YouTube subscribers and 118 million total views.

Seeing double! The women share strikingly similar selfie poses, daring fashion choices and lifestyles as glamorous young mothers. Pictured: Left Tammy, right Gracie

Mirror! Gracie has long been compared to Tammy by fans, but after recently ditching her brunette locks for blonde, they now look eerily similar. Pictured: Left Tammy, right Gracie

Just like Tammy, Gracie is not shy when it comes to flaunting her pert derriere.

In recent years they have both shared pictures wearing the exact same swimsuits and activewear ensembles, which first sparked the comparisons.

Grace has also modeled for Khloe Kardashian's brand Good American, which Tammy has previously fronted campaigns for alongside the KUWTK star.

Up and coming! Gracie currently boasts 781,000 followers on Instagram, 246,000 subscribers on YouTube and over 23 million views on the video platform

Queen! However, Gracie has some catching up to do, as Tammy has 10.3 million Instagram followers, 1.3 million YouTube subscribers and 118 million total views

Both Tammy and Gracie also have very similar tattoos on their forearms.

Last year, Gracie told website The Littl: 'I run a YouTube channel and Instagram page that shares all things lifestyle, fashion and beauty.

'A day in my life consists of a balance of work, working out, spending time with family. And a little bit of self care at the end of the day with a face mask and my favourite show or movie!'

Same wardrobe! In recent years, Tammy and Gracie have both shared pictures wearing the exact same swimsuits, which first sparked the comparisons. Pictured: Left Tammy, right Gracie

What are the chances! Last year, Gracie wore this activewear twinset that Tammy wore several years ago. Pictured: Left Tammy, right Gracie