She wanted a cheat day and she definitely got it.

A visibly hung-over Kaley Cuoco took to IGTV on Saturday for her fourth installment of A Cup Of Cuoco in as many days.

The 34-year-old Big Bang Theory star described an entire day of debauchery with the cast and crew of her upcoming HBO Max series The Flight Attendant.

Long night: A visibly hung-over Kaley Cuoco, 34, took to IGTV on Saturday for an installment of A Cup Of Cuoco about her epic wrap party for her upcoming series The Flight Attendant

Kaley was dressed in a gray pajama shirt and had her blonde tresses tied in a tall top knot.

She sipped a much-needed cup of coffee and sported some slightly puffy eyes on her makeup-free face.

She described her intense discomfort as an 'everything hangover.'

'It's a work hangover, it's definitely a partying hangover, it's a food hangover,' she said.

Letting loose: Kaley had on a gray pajama top and wore her hair in a tall top knot. She sipped on a coffee mug while recounting her 'crazy cheat day' full of eating and drinking

Yum! The Big Bang star ate a pizza all by herself. She shared a photo of her wolfing it down with her co-star Michiel Huisman

Kaley had to watch her food intake while filming the series, and now seemed like a good time to finally let herself cheat.

'I had waited weeks for this huge, crazy cheat day, and everyone knew it too,' she said.

'From the minute i woke up it was cheating. I ate everything you can imagine: chocolate, danishes, donuts, then there was candy, a huge lunch and dessert.'

By nighttime Kaley and the cast and crew of The Flight Attendant had moved to a bar where she treated everyone with drinks and twelve pizzas, one of which was all for her.

She shared a photo of herself and her co-star Michiel Huisman wolfing down slices of pizza at a bar table.

'This flight attendant is wrapped for the holidays! I ate an entire pizza to myself, 45 desserts, cocktails, I might have danced on the bar, oh and beat @michielhuisman at ping pong. Happy holidays, everyone!' she captioned the photo.

Generous crowd: Kaley and the HBO Max show's producer took the whole crew out for a night at the bar while covering the drinks and plentiful food

Impressive: 'I didn't know my body could consume that amount of food. It was my night,' she said, sounding almost astonished. 'I definitely partied too hard,' she added

Kaley shared multiple photos of her celebrating with friends at the bar to her Insta Stories, though she seemed amazed that she was even able to do it all.

'I didn't know my body could consume that amount of food. It was my night,' she said, sounding almost astonished.

'I definitely partied too hard,' she added.

The 8 Simple Rules star admitted she'd called her husband Karl Cook sometime during the evening, but she couldn't recall what she'd said to him and wanted to hear his recollection.

She ended the video by admitting she was 'gonna go pack and take a few Advil,' before correcting herself: 'Maybe more than a few.'