President Trump crashed the Democratic debate and dared the candidates to ‘impeach me ousside’ while Nancy Pelosi delivered him the articles of impeachment as a Christmas gift in Saturday Night Live’s hilarious cold open.

Alec Baldwin made his usual cameo caricaturing the president while the Democratic field of hopefuls battled it out on stage in a spoof of Thursday night’s debate in Los Angeles.

Senator Elizabeth Warren, played by Kate McKinnon, joked that PBS, the network that staged Thursday’s debate, is her ‘safe word.’

McKinnon did double duty for the sketch, appearing toward the end as a demonic Pelosi.

Pelosi is mocked as 'Krampus,' the half-goat, half-demon who appears during Christmas season to punish children who misbehave.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (played by Kate McKinnon on the right) gifts President Trump (portrayed by Alec Baldwin on the left) the articles of impeachment for Christmas

Baldwin's Trump crashed the Democratic debate and took his place alongside Joe Biden, played on the right by SNL alum Jason Sudeikis

McKinnon also played Senator Elizabeth Warren during the sketch

Senator Bernie Sanders, portrayed by Seinfeld co-creator and former SNL writer Larry David, quipped that he was worried about climate change.

‘Look at me. Are you really surprised that my main concern is the temperature?’ he asked.

‘At my house I have a Sharpie on the thermostat so I know if you move it.’

He added: ‘No matter how hot the Earth gets, I will not wear shorts. I swim in corduroy.’

David's Sanders began his appearance by declaring: 'I'm Bernie Sanders. I'm white. Can't help it.'

The line is a reference to Sanders' response to a question he received during the debate on Thursday about the lack of diversity among the remaining candidates in the Democratic race.

The sketch took a dig at the dwindling number of minority candidates after the departure from the race of Senator Kamala Harris.

SNL alum Maya Rudolph came back for the cold open to revive her sassy portrayal of Senator Kamala Harris

'While I'm here, I just want to show you how good you could have had it America... you could have had a bad b***h,' she said after taking a sip of her cocktail

In real life, Harris dropped out of the Democratic race after her campaign ran out of funding

'Just like The Bachelor, the further we go, the less diverse it gets,' remarked the moderator, played by Heidi Gardner.

Speaking of Harris, her doppelganger, Maya Rudolph, also made an uninvited appearance at the debate.

'While I'm here, I just want to show you how good you could have had it America... you could have had a bad b***h,' she said after taking a sip of her cocktail.

The line was a reference to a lyric from a song by Lizzo, who was the musical guest in a historic episode hosted by SNL alum Eddie Murphy.

The sketch spoofed the argument during Thursday's debate between Warren and South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg.

At the debate, the Massachusetts senator hit out at Buttigieg for having a fundraiser at a wine cave in the Napa Valley.

The wine cave is on the grounds of a winery owned by billionaire donors to the Democratic Party.

On SNL, McKinnon's Warren said the event was like 'Eyes Wide Shut without any sex appeal whatsoever.'

Released in 1999, Eyes Wide Shut is an erotic mystery directed by the late Stanley Kubrick. It starred Tom Cruise and then-wife Nicole Kidman.

Another SNL alum, Rachel Dratch, reprised her parody of Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota

'Tonight, my voice will be as solid as my carefully rehearsed Midwestern mom jokes,' Dratch's Klobuchar joked

Dratch poked fun at Klobuchar's penchant to get laughs with jokes

'I haven't been to a wine cave,' McKinnon's Warren said during the cold open.

'I haven't even been to a Filene's Basement.'

Buttigieg was portrayed by Colin Jost as a boyish, robotic candidate who gets an allowance from his parents and asks for permission from the others to be in 'attack mode.'

'Tonight, I will be in attack mode...so long as that's okay with everyone else,' Jost's Buttigieg said.

When he was attacked by Warren over the wine cave, Jost as Buttigieg said: 'I would just like to point something out.

'I am the only person on stage who isn't a millionaire or a billionaire.

'I live on my mayor's salary plus a $20 a week allowance from my parents and that's only if I do my chores.'

SNL also poked fun at Andrew Yang, the entrepreneur who remains in the race against the odds.

'My candidacy will be completely ignored by the media, which is why I'll conduct the rest of the debate in virtual reality,' Yang, played by cast newcomer Bowen Yang, said.

Rudolph and David wasn't the only SNL alum to return for the cold open.

Fred Armisen revived his Michael Bloomberg character and crashed the debate even though the billionaire former mayor of New York did not qualify for the debate in real life

Jason Sudeikis reprised his imitation of former Vice President Joe Biden and Fred Armisen revived his Michael Bloomberg character.

Rachel Dratch returned to do her send-up of Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who has been ridiculed for her penchant of making forced jokes.

'Tonight, my voice will be as solid as my carefully rehearsed Midwestern mom jokes,' Dratch's Klobuchar joked.

When asked if she wanted to add something about the wine cave controversy, Klobuchar quipped: 'The only cave I ever go to is a man cave. I call it the Senate.'

She then invited the audience to check out her stand-up special 'Land of 10,000 Laughs' streaming on 'Costco +.'

Armisen's Bloomberg crashed the debate, replacing Tom Steyer, the California billionaire who did participate in real life, even though he did not qualify for the event.

'Oopsy classic billionaire switcheroo,' Bloomberg said.

He then joked: 'For $30million, PBS is now owned by viewers like me.'

He added: 'Look, I even got a tote bag.'

The joke is a reference to Bloomberg's entry into the presidential race. The billionaire former mayor of New York plans to spend big on ads using his own considerable resources.

Sudeikis as Biden asked the candidates to 'quit picking on Little Bo Pete over here, OK?' He then added: 'Have you noticed how I'm playing with almost a full deck of cards tonight?'

SNL also poked fun at Biden, whose rambling style of speech has been mocked repeatedly.

Sudeikis as Biden asked the candidates to 'quit picking on Little Bo Pete over here, OK?'

He then added: 'Have you noticed how I'm playing with almost a full deck of cards tonight?'

'I haven't even told a long rambling story yet but I've got one locked and loaded.

'The year was 19 whoops-a-daisy, and my white a** is strutting down the mean streets of Wilmington when I come across a group of fellas singing some doo-wop tunes around a flaming trash can.

'Now, look, I know I need to be racially sensitive here, but it's important that you know his name was ol' black Charlie.'

Another Democratic candidate who did not make the debate stage in Los Angeles on Thursday was spoofed during the cold open - Tulsi Gabbard

Cecily Strong reprised her role as Gabbard, caricaturing her as an evil, devious candidate who is working to subvert the Democratic Party from within

Another Democratic candidate who did not make the debate stage in Los Angeles on Thursday was spoofed during the cold open - Tulsi Gabbard.

The polarizing congresswoman from Hawaii was skewered for voting 'present' during Wednesday's vote on the articles of impeachment against President Trump.

Cecily Strong reprised her role as Gabbard, caricaturing her as an evil, devious candidate who is working to subvert the Democratic Party from within.

'Democrats, I'll get you my party...and your little mayor, too,' Gabbard says.

Sanders then chimes in, calling Trump the 'most corrupt president in history.'

'He's not the only one lying to the American public,' the Democratic socialist says.

'Amazon lies. Apple lies. Even my iPhone lies.

'Every time it says it's at 1 per cent battery, it stays on for at least 20 minutes.

'But then other times, it is at 7 per cent, shuts down immediately. Go figure!

'Apple, what are you trying to hide? And what is my password?'

As the segment winds down, the candidates learn that Trump is backstage watching the proceedings.

Baldwin's Trump is seen wearing hoop earrings and watching a TV screen with the debate playing.

As the segment winds down, the candidates learn that Trump is backstage watching the proceedings

Baldwin's Trump is seen wearing hoop earrings. He comes out onstage and lambastes the candidates

'You think I'm afraid,' a defiant Trump says. 'What are you gonna do? Impeach me?' Impeach me outside, OK. Impeach me outside!'

'Impeach me outside' is a play on words from the phrase made famous by the 'cash me ousside girl' Danielle Bregoli, aka Bhad Bhabie, who became a social media sensation after making the comment during an appearance on Dr Phil in 2016 (above)

In Jerry Springer style, he then walks out onto the stage.

'You think I'm afraid,' a defiant Trump says. 'What are you gonna do? Impeach me?'

'Impeach me outside, OK. Impeach me outside!'

The reference is from the Dr Phil show, when he interviewed Danielle Bregoli.

Bregoli, who is also known by her stage name Bhad Bhabie, appeared on the show to discuss her behavior.

During her appearance, she uttered the phrase 'Catch me outside, how about that?' which became a meme and catchphrase.

Bregoli then became known as the 'Cash me ousside girl'. She used the popularity of the catchphrase to launch a career as a singer and rapper.

On SNL, Baldwin's Trump lists the various nicknames and insults he has for Democratic candidates, including 'Pocahontas' and 'Sleepy Joe', which he uses to refer to Warren and Biden, respectively.

In the cold open, Trump calls Buttigieg 'Mayor Butt'.

'There are no rules now that I'm impeached.

'You saw Delirious. Now you're going to get Donald Trump "raw", baby.'

After Trump declares he isn't afraid of anyone, he is met by his nemesis, a demonic-looking Pelosi

The House speaker comes bearing 'gifts' in the forms of articles of impeachment

She then takes the gifts back and does her famous clap, ending the cold open

Raw and Delirious are two 1980s comedy specials by Murphy, who returned to host SNL for the first time since he departed the show during that decade.

In the cold open, Biden challenges Trump to a push up contest.

Trump then declares he isn't afraid of everything, prompting McKinnon's Pelosi to appear.

'I brought you a gift, Mr. President,' a demonic-looking Pelosi says.

'I have two articles of impeachment.'

'Okay,' Trump replies. 'Give it to Mitch in the Senate, and everything is gravy, baby.'

'Mitch' is a reference to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell. In real life, McConnell is eager to conduct a swift impeachment trial without witnesses.

It is widely expected that the trial will be a formality and that Trump will be acquitted, but Pelosi and other Democrats are insisting that witnesses be called.

From left: Bowen Yang; Colin Jost; Maya Rudolph; Alec Baldwin; Kate McKinnon; Jason Sudeikis; Larry David; Heidi Gardner; Rachel Dratch; and Fred Armisen

Pelosi has since declined to send the articles of impeachment to the Senate until she gets assurances that a fair trial would be conducted.

SNL made mention of that in the cold open.

'You know how sometimes you get a gift and you like it so much that you keep it?' McKinnon's Pelosi says.

Trump tell her: 'You can't do that.'

To which Pelosi replies: 'Well watch me. Good luck at the State of the Union.'

McKinnon's Pelosi then takes the gifts with her and performs the applause which generated headlines and social media memes during the previous State of the Union address.