She recently returned to Instagram after a year-long hiatus.

And on Saturday, Olivia Newton-John's daughter Chloe Lattanzi treated her social media followers to a glimpse at her sexiest pole dancing moves.

Taking to Instagram, the 33-year-old flaunted her wild side as she posed at a studio in a skimpy white skirt, crop top and black heels.

'I love to move my body!' Olivia Newton-John's daughter Chloe Lattanzi, 33, showed of her pole dancing skills in a skimpy crop top and skirt on Instagram on Saturday

Showing off her athletic prowess, Chloe struck a series of racy poses while a cat strolled around the studio behind her.

At one point, the talented beauty did a dramatic dip while leaning on the pole.

In the caption, Chloe described her love for exercise, describing movement a 'therapy'.

Got the moves! Taking to Instagram, the slender star flaunted her wild side as she posed at a studio in a skimpy white skirt, crop top and black heels

'I love to move my body. It its therapy for me. I tend to reside in my body's intelligence rather than my minds,' she began.

'The inner body is where intuition dwells. Where spirit and heart meet.Where anger and pain can be channeled out with the right teacher,' Chloe continued.

The marijuana farmer went on to liken her body to a 'sacred instrument', writing: 'The mind can only dwell on anger and feed on pain. Use your body as your sacred instrument. You are not you emotions. They happen to you.'

Shaking it off! In the caption, Chloe described her love for exercise, describing movement a 'therapy'

Fit: Chloe later showed herself doing a number of skillful turns on the pole

She finished the post: 'And if they are causing you or others distress learn how to channel them out. Or as I do. Dance them out. '

Chloe has previously struggled with depression for 15 years, and also had issues with anorexia, body dysmorphia, drug addiction and alcohol dependency.

In an interview with The Mail on Sunday back in 2013, Chloe revealed she had been abusing cocaine, alcohol and antidepressants prior to a stint in rehab.

'Fame totally messes you up. I don't blame my mother for my problems, but I would never want to be famous or raise a child of my own around the cult of celebrity. It ruins lives,' she said at the time.

'If there's one thing I've learned, it is that you can't be fragile in this business, or else you end up like Lindsay Lohan.'