It's like a message from the great beyond, suffused with the Force itself.

Carrie Fisher's brother Todd Fisher has shared a letter he only recently found that she wrote about death, according to Page Six.

The Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker actress — who passed away in December 2016 of a heart attack following a transatlantic flight — had penned the note about death that displayed her unmistakable charm and wit.

From beyond: Fallen actress Carrie Fisher's brother Todd has shared a letter he only recently found that she wrote about death; here she is seen in a headshot from 1977

The letter reads: 'I am dead. How are you? I'll see you soon ... I would call and tell you what this is like, but there is no reception up here. Cut. New scene, new setup, new heavenly location.

'I have finally got the part that I have been rehearsing for all my life,' the note continues. 'God gave me the part. This is the end of the road I have been touring on all my life.'

Todd explained to the New York Post that he recently was going through some desk drawers, looking for memorabilia.

'Everything Debbie [Reynolds, his and Carrie's mother who died just days after her daughter] cared the most about, in terms of personal letters, was in there. I’ve been through that drawer several times,' he said.

Leia forever: The Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker actress — who passed away in December 2016 — had penned the note about death that displayed her unmistakable charm and wit

This time, however, he stumbled across something 'I’d never seen before in my life.'

He found the note scrawled Carrie’s distinctive handwriting on a piece of paper, on both sides.

'Either it was something Carrie wrote long ago because she was doing a story on death, or it just materialized from beyond,' Todd marveled. 'She was writing as if she was dead and what it was like... It just blew my mind.'

'I have finally got the part that I have been rehearsing for all my life,' the note said. 'God gave me the part. This is the end of the road I have been touring on all my life'; seen here in 2014 with her Star Wars costar and onscreen brother Mark Hamill

Eerie: Todd explained that he recently was going through some desk drawers, looking for memorabilia, when he stumbled upon the note; Carrie seen here in Rise Of Skywalker

'I thought, "Wow, why am I finding this right now?" I know Carrie’s writing inside and out. It’s unmistakable.'

Fisher also mentioned that watching the latest Star Wars installments, two of which have been released since his sister's and mother's untimely deaths, has helped him come to terms with what happened.

'I cried,' he said of watching Carrie in The Rise Of Skywalker. 'Carrie is the heart and soul of the storyline.'

Rebel princess: Fisher on the set of Star Wars: Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back, from 1980

Dearly departed: Fisher's brother also mentioned that watching the latest Star Wars installments, two of which have been released since his sister's untimely death, has helped him cope; Carrie seen here in 2015 in London

'A lot of people asked me when they died, "How do you deal with it?"' he shared. 'Part of it is the faith that we all shared, my mother, my sister and I — the idea that we shall meet again, and they’re not far from you. They're just in a different space or a different dimension.'

'There are a lot of words you can attach to [that],' he went on. 'The word "force," for example, is [Star Wars creator] George Lucas’s choice word, but you could interchange [that with] the word "faith." I find a lot of that comforting, frankly.'

Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker, which features Carrie Fisher's final film role, is currently in theaters.