She's one of the most popular artists of this year, and he is known for his work in the popular series, American Horror Story.

And now, Halsey, 25, and Evan Peters, 32, are off to spend their first holiday together as a couple.

The two were spotted at JFK Airport on Saturday afternoon in New York City as they gear up for the upcoming holidays.

Jet setters: Halsey and Evan Peters are off to spend their first holiday together as a couple as they were spotted on Saturday at JFK Airport in New York

The couple kept it casual amid their day of travel as Halsey - whose real name is Ashley Nicolette Frangipane - sported a pair of eccentric yellow and navy tie dye pants and a navy patterned jacket.

She kept her puffy coat open and wore a faded purple t-shirt on underneath while rocking a pair of orange sunglasses and a black headband.

Her partner-in-crime for the day kept it lowkey in a checkered jacket and khaki joggers while hauling his black suitcase.

On the go: Evan Peters kept it lowkey in a checkered jacket and khaki joggers while hauling his black suitcase

The two sparked dating rumors back in October while attending a Halloween party and sharing their spooky costumes to Instagram.

And shortly after their eerie night out, the Graveyard singer appeared on Ellen where she was scared into saying that the two were an item.

After someone on her team jumped out to scare here Halsey admitted the two were dating.

'You distracted me with the boyfriend question!' she said while laughing.

'I don't know what's scarier, having to talk about my boyfriend on TV or having that happen.'

Airport attire: Halsey - whose real name is Ashley Nicolette Frangipane - sported a pair of eccentric yellow and navy tie dye pants and a navy patterned jacket

Previously, the actor was linked to Scream Queens actress Emma Roberts who he began dating back in 2012 after meeting on set of their movie Adult World.

But in 2013, while in a hotel in Montreal someone had heard a dispute coming from a nearby room and alerted the authorities.

When they arrived, they found Evan had a bloody nose and a bite mark leading the cops to arrest Emma for domestic violence.

She was released shortly after and her boyfriend chose not to press charges against her. The two later released a joint statement: 'It was an unfortunate incident and misunderstanding. Ms. Roberts was released after questioning and the couple are working together to move past it.'

The AMAS: Recently, Halsey took the stage at the American Music Awards back in November where she performed in an all-white outfit and a bucket of paint

Former flame: Evan and Emma Roberts posed together at the 2018 Vanity Fair Oscar Party back in March 2018

But that wasn't enough to detour Evan from his one true love, later that year during the holidays he got down on one knee and proposed to Emma.

Things didn't work out for the best, and after a series of breakups it all ended for good back in May when they called off their engagement.

It was also announced that Halsey will be returning to Saturday Night Live as a musical guest with Adam Scott hosting on the first show for the franchise in 2020 on January 25.