Former Prime Minister Tony Abbott has been spotted in his volunteer firefighting gear battling blazes south of Sydney for the second time this week.

Mr Abbott, 62, has been a member of the Rural Fire Service in a voluntary capacity for more than a decade and has helped to tackle bushfires in the past.

The NSW Traffic and Highway Patrol shared a photograph of Mr Abbott posing alongside a police car in front of scorched bushland on Sunday.

Meanwhile, more than 100,000 people have signed a petition calling for the nation's current leader, Scott Morrison, to be sacked for his handling of the bushfire crisis.

Former PM Tony Abbott posed for a picture with a highway patrol officer on Sunday

Scott Morrison has come under fire for taking a family holiday to Hawaii during Australia's bushfire crisis. More than 100,000 people have signed a petition calling for him to resign

Mr Abbott was spotted at the Bargo BP service station wearing the uniform of his Davidson squadron on Friday before battling the Green Wattle Creek mega-blaze.

On the same day, Mr Morrison was pictured relaxing on a Hawaiian beach with his wife Jenny as he waited for a flight back to Australia amid national outrage over his trip.

Poll Are you satisfied with Scott Morrison's handling of the bushfire crisis? Yes No Unsure Are you satisfied with Scott Morrison's handling of the bushfire crisis? Yes 212 votes

No 1054 votes

Unsure 61 votes Now share your opinion





Mr Morrison also participated in a radio interview with 2GB, reminding listeners that he doesn't physically fight the fires even when he is in the country.

'I know Australians will understand this, and they'll be pleased I'm coming back... but they know that, you know, I don't hold a hose mate,' he said.

Scott Morrison's voice broke as he was grilled by reporters during a press conference on Sunday about his secret family holiday to Hawaii during the worst bushfire season in Australia's history.

The prime minister was repeatedly questioned 'why the secrecy' and asked whether Australia would change its climate change policies.

'I get it that people would have been upset to know that I was holidaying with my family while their families were under great stress,' he said at the RFS headquarters in Sydney Olympic Park.

'They know that I will not stand there and hold a hose. I am not a trained firefighter nor am I an expert like those in the next room doing an amazing job.

'But I am comforted by the fact that Australians would like me to be here simply so I can be here alongside them as they go through this terrible time... I apologise for that.'

Mr Morrison admitted he had caused 'great anxiety' by leaving Australia, and said he would have done things differently if he had the 'benefit of hindsight.'

He said he had made a promise to his two daughters Abby and Lily to take them on a holiday after a long year.

'I'm sure Australians are fair minded and understand that when you make a promise to your kids, you try to keep it - but as prime minister, you have other responsibilities.

'I accept that. I accept the criticism.'

Mr Morrison said his family normally went on holidays on the south coast of NSW in January, but those plans were cancelled due to work commitments in Japan and India.

Australians have been questioning Mr Morrison's whereabouts as he fled the country during the bushfire crisis. Pictured: Mr Morrison in Hawaii on Friday

As images circulate on social media of Tony Abbott helping with the bushfires, some have called for Mr Morrison to step down. Pictured: Mr Abbott in 2018

Instead, he wanted to surprise the girls with a trip to Hawaii before the year ended, a plan he said he was sure other mothers and fathers could relate to.

'I tried to give them a bit of a nice surprise and take them here,' he said. 'I think that's what dads try and do if they can, when they've been working hard all year.

'I know there are lots of dads and mums out there who've been working hard all year try to treat their kids at this time of year, and that's what I was trying to do. It's just unfortunate it's come at such an awful time, particularly for those living in and around Sydney and NSW.'

The prime minister was scrutinised for his decision to leave Australia for a personal trip while the nation was burning.

His office has also been criticised for not being honest about where he was.

But Mr Morrison said he wasn't trying to hide the trip from the public and insisted he followed the same protocol he had all year when taking personal leave.

Scott Morrison has been mocked on social media for saying 'I don't hold the hose'

Retired political reporter Laurie Oakes slammed Mr Morrison after the PM said the government would not be changing its climate change policy

For days his office denied he was even in Hawaii to begin with, citing security risks as the reason why they could not disclose his location.

'Each time I have taken private family leave as Prime Minister I followed exactly the same process,' Mr Morrison said. 'There was no change. On my earlier leaves, no statement was issued. I took private family leave and no objections were raised by the press on those occasions.'

But Mr Morrison was mocked on social media for repeating the line 'I don't hold a hose', and slammed for his handling of the crisis.

''I don't hold the hose' said the leader of our country in Hawaii while our country burned on his third holiday of the year after sitting barely any days in parliament,' tweeted one man.

'I'm trying really hard to find you sincere and I just can't. You are full of hot air. Too little too late, please go away and shut up,' wrote another.

Former prime minister Tony Abbott is seen fastening a tarp to a house that was damaged in a hail storm in 2018

Other Australians slammed Mr Morrison for saying the government would not change its climate change policy as a result of the bushfires.

'He might as well rack off back to Hawaii then,' tweeted retired political reporter Laurie Oakes.

'Did he seriously just lecture the country on kindness and refuse to really apologise? For a dude that worked in sales his PR game is weak,' added Laura Jensen.

A petition calling for Mr Morrison to lose his position as the nation's leader has gathered more than 105,000 signatures.

Meanwhile Mr Abbott has been praised for his quiet decision to head to the fire front with his squadron and help fight the blazes.

'As much as I'm not a fan of his political views, you have to respect him,' one person wrote under a photo of him in his fire gear with a NSW Police officer.

Others said they hoped he'd be reinstated as the nation's leader.

Helping hand: Former prime minister Tony Abbott (right) was pictured in his RFS uniform as he fights fires in Sydney's south-west

Previous efforts: Kulnura brigade captain Mark Towell (left) and member Andrew Griffith (right) with Davidson deputy captain Tony Abbott (middle)

'This absolute legend should be back running our country,' one person wrote.

Comparisons between the two men have flooded social media in recent days, with one Twitter user saying Mr Morrison had 'made Tony Abbott look like a good bloke'.

Another added: 'I was never a fan of Tony Abbott but this has given me food for thought. How many other politicians have there been out there fighting the fires?'

A total fire ban is in place across New South Wales - after 40 homes in the state's Southern Highlands were destroyed by the Green Wattle Creek blaze and two firefighters lost their lives in the region when their truck rolled off a road.