He recently stoked controversy with his complimentary statements about US President Donald Trump.

Pierce Brosnan looked as if he didn't have a care in the world as he biked through Malibu's Zuma Beach on Saturday.

The 66-year-old James Bond star was joined on the trip by his wife Keely Shaye Smith, 56.

On the beach: Pierce Brosnan, 66, looked as if he didn't have a care in the world as he biked through Malibu's Zuma Beach on Saturday with his wife Keely Shaye Smith, 56

Pierce was dressed casually in a black turtleneck and a matching pair of black jeans.

He had on a rugged pair of gray trainers and wore dark aviator sunglasses while sporting a well-kept white goatee, which he seemed to have trimmed down from a beard he wore last week.

The Mamma Mia! actor also had a black down jacket and a matching beret that he wore for added warmth.

Keely was also dressed casually in a gray hoodie and a black vest with black sweatpants and gray trainers.

Staying warm: Pierce covered up in a black turtleneck and dark pants, and he kept a black down vest and a matching beret for when it got chillier

Pierce recently courted controversy among left-leaning politicos when he partially praised Donald Trump in an interview with The Hill.

The naturalized American citizen commended the president for what he saw as improving the US economy.

'People are working, and that’s a step in the right direction,' he said.

'This country is part of my life,' he continued. 'I’m an American citizen. I love America and America’s been very good to me. And I want to see happiness come back into our society.'

He had previously debated leaving the US in 2018.

Thumbs up: The actor got himself into hot water with left-leaning politicos when he praised President Donald Trump for what he saw as an improving US economy

It wasn't all kind words from Brosnan, who said the president 'has to pay attention to the climate change. He has to support the rallying call of the young people.'

'He has to get out of the coal business, the oil business. It’s just devouring the Earth around us. And there are other ways. We’ve seen it from other societies, other cultures,' he said.

The Mrs. Doubtfire actor also said he hadn't made up his mind as to whom he would support in the 2020 presidential election.

Coming soon: Pierce didn't release any films this year, but he'll star with Will Ferrell next year in the comedy Eurovision, as well as the horror film False Positive, written by and starring Broad City's Ilana Glazer; pictured December 13

Pierce didn't have any films released this year, but he did star on the second and final season of the Netflix western series The Son.

Next year, he'll play the brother of Will Ferrell's character in the comedy Eurovision, which Ferrell also co-wrote and produced.

The debonair actor will get a change of pace in the horror film False Positive, which stars and was co-written by Broad City's Ilana Glazer.

Blended family: The actor married journalist and TV host Keely in 2001. They share two sons, and he has two living sons from his previous marriage to Cassandra Harris, as well as a deceased daughter; shown in 2018

Pierce's beach bike ride with his wife Keely was fitting, as he first met her on a Mexican beach in 1994.

The journalist and television host married the actor in 2001 in a ceremony in County Mayo, Ireland.

The couple share two sons with literary names: Dylan Thomas, 22, and Paris Beckett, 18.

Pierce was previously married to Australian actress Cassandra Harris from 1980 until her death in 1991 from ovarian cancer.

He has two sons from the marriage: Christopher, 47, and Sean, 36.

The former couple also had a daughter, Charlotte, who died in 2013 at 41, also of ovarian cancer.