President Donald Trump defended Rep. Tulsi Gabbard after the 2020 Democratic presidential candidate infuriated members of her party when she voted 'present' on the two articles of impeachment.

The president, speaking to high school and college students at a Turning Point USA conference, opened by discussing Gabbard's part in Wednesday's vote in the House of Representatives.

'I give her respect because she didn't vote the other day because she knew it was wrong,' Trump said.

Scroll down for video

The president, speaking to high school and college students at a Turning Point USA conference, opened by discussing Gabbard's part in Wednesday's vote

Gabbard, a Democrat, did not speak on the floor while leaders of both parties doled out slots in 30-second and one-minute increments. When the voting finally occurred Wednesday night, she voted 'present' on both an abuse of power article and one accusing Trump of obstructing Congress by thwarting the impeachment inquiry.

She was seen standing against the back wall of the chamber on the side where Republicans sit during the second vote.

She said in a written statement: 'After doing my due diligence in reviewing the 658-page impeachment report, I came to the conclusion that I could not in good conscience vote either yes or no.'

'I give her respect because she didn't vote the other day because she knew it was wrong,' Trump said

She added: 'I am standing in the center and have decided to vote Present. I could not in good conscience vote against impeachment because I believe President Trump is guilty of wrongdoing.'

But she said a president must not be removed through a ‘partisan process’ that is ‘fueled by tribal animosities.’

In his 73-minute speech, Trump praised the members of Congress who supported him by voting no.

'I have to say, what kind of great support did we have from those incredible congressmen and women this week? They were fantastic,' Trump said of the vote.

'We had three Democrats coming to our side so we have to call it a bipartisan vote,' he told the students at the Turning Point USA conference, which is a gathering for conservative teenagers.

'Hey, they had no Republicans on their side,' he added of Democrats.