Gabrielle Union put her 'racially-charged' America's Got Talent ousting off her mind, at least temporarily, as she enjoyed a Hawaiian holiday with her family over the weekend.

The Nebraska-born beauty easily defied her 47 years as she twirled in a black triangle bikini while relaxing in the backyard of their luxurious vacation home on Maui.

The L.A.'s Finest stunner - who was 'at peace' - rocked the same waist-long braids hairstylist Larranisha Russell coiffed back on November 11.

'Aloha!' Gabrielle Union put her 'racially-charged' America's Got Talent ousting off her mind, at least temporarily, as she enjoyed a Hawaiian holiday with her family over the weekend (pictured Friday)

Nice view! The Nebraska-born beauty easily defied her 47 years as she twirled in a black triangle bikini while relaxing in the backyard of their luxurious vacation home on Maui

Gabrielle also flaunted her phenomenal 5ft7in figure in a tangerine two-piece while chilling poolside with her 'miracle' daughter Kaavia James.

Union and her second husband Dwyane Wade have been teaching their 13-month-old privileged princess to perfect her walk and 'lead at a young age.'

The UCLA grad made sure to Instastory a cute clip of little Kaavia - who boasts 1M followers on her own - practicing saying the phrase 'I love you.'

Meanwhile, the Olympic gold medalist - turning 38 next month - enjoyed a round of golf with his son Zion Malachi Airamis from his prior marriage to high school sweetheart Siohvaughn Funches.

Babe! The L.A.'s Finest stunner - who was 'at peace' - rocked the same waist-long braids hairstylist Larranisha Russell coiffed back on November 11

'Issa party!' Gabrielle also flaunted her phenomenal 5ft7in figure in a tangerine two-piece while chilling poolside with her 'miracle' daughter Kaavia James (pictured Saturday)

'Look at that walk!' Union and her second husband Dwyane Wade have been teaching their 13-month-old privileged princess to perfect her walk and 'lead at a young age'

Growing up fast: The UCLA grad made sure to Instastory a cute clip of little Kaavia - who boasts 1M followers on her own - practicing saying the phrase 'I love you'

'You haven't lived life since you watched the sunset in Hawaii,' the openly gay 12-year-old marveled in his father's Instastory.

'It's so beautiful'

The former Miami Heat shooting guard - who retired from the NBA on April 10 - now publicly uses both male and female pronouns when discussing his 'courageous' child.

'First of all, you want to talk strength and courage, my 12-year-old has way more than I have. You can learn something from your kids,' Dwayne said on Showtime's All The Smoke podcast on Thursday.

Fore! The Olympic gold medalist (L) - turning 38 next month - enjoyed a round of golf with his son Zion Malachi Airamis (R) from his prior marriage to Siohvaughn Funches

The openly gay 12-year-old marveled in his father's Instastory: 'You haven't lived life since you watched the sunset in Hawaii. It's so beautiful'

'Nothing changes with my love': The former Miami Heat shooting guard - who retired from the NBA on April 10 - uses both male and female pronouns when discussing his 'courageous' child

'My heart': Ever the supportive stepmother, Gabrielle attended the 11th annual Miami Beach Pride Parade in South Beach with Zion back in April

'I've watched my son, from day one, become into who she now eventually has come into, you know what I'm saying? Nothing changes with my love, nothing changes with my responsibilities.'

Wade is also father to six-year-old son Xavier (with babymama Aja Metoyer) and 17-year-old son Zaire (with ex-wife Siohvaughn Funches).

Ever the supportive stepmother, Gabrielle attended the 11th annual Miami Beach Pride Parade in South Beach with Zion back in April.

Wrongful termination? SAG-AFTRA is 'expanding its investigation into Fremantle Media' after meeting with Union and fired American Gods actor-producer Orlando Jones about racial bias

Replacement? Execs at the NBC talent competition and Freemantle met with Modern Family actress Sofía Vergara for 'two hours on Wednesday' about replacing the Bring It On alum on AGT (pictured Wednesday)

SAG-AFTRA is 'expanding its investigation into Fremantle Media' after meeting with Union and fired American Gods actor-producer Orlando Jones about racial bias, according to THR.

Execs at the NBC talent competition and Freemantle met with Modern Family actress Sofía Vergara for 'two hours on Wednesday' about replacing the Bring It On alum on AGT, according to TMZ.

The New York & Company collaborator next resumes her role as LAPD detective Sydney Burnett in the second season of Bad Boys spin-off L.A.'s Finest, which premieres next year on Spectrum.