Married At First Sight's Jessika Power has praised her $13,000 fat transfer boob job, after taking her breasts up two cup sizes from a B to a D in June.

As the procedure becomes more popular, the 28-year-old has admitted she felt this was more 'natural' than receiving breast implants, which she wouldn't consider.

'I think it's the better alternative to putting something foreign in your body,' Jessika told the Courier Mail on Sunday.

New woman! MAFS' Jessika Power has praised her $13,000 fat transfer boob job, after taking her breasts up two cup sizes from a B to a D in June. Pictured: Left in 2015, right in 2019

The controversial star continued: 'It's nice to shock people when I say, "well, they're real," because in a sense they are still real.'

Jessika admitted it was her Sydney-based surgeon, Dr Rastogi, who first suggested the procedure, after she initially wanted liposuction on her thighs.

'He told me that they were going to throw the fat out and it needed to be removed anyway, so why didn't I just get it injected into my boobs,' explained Jessika.

Looking back, Jessika couldn't be happier with the 'natural' results.

'I think it's the better alternative to putting something foreign in your body,' Jessika told the Courier Mail on Sunday, while against the idea of having breast implants

'They were just going to throw the fat out': Jessika admitted it was her surgeon who suggested the procedure, after she wanted liposuction on her thighs. Pictured: Jessika post-surgery

Since Married At First Sight's finale in April, Jessika has undergone a $50,000 transformation, and is now unrecognisable compared to just a few years ago.

Jessika's brand new porcelain veneers were perhaps her most pricey new feature.

The star turned to Melbourne's Dr Dee to replace her first set of veneers, which she had done in 2016, after chipping one while filming the reality show.

She loves it! Since Married At First Sight's finale in April, Jessika has undergone a $50,000 transformation, and is now unrecognisable compared to just a few years ago

Sparkling! Jessika's brand new porcelain veneers were perhaps her most pricey new feature

Looks sore! Alongside this, Jessika regularly undergoes both lip and cheek filler

Alongside this, Jessika regularly undergoes both lip and cheek filler.

At one point this year, the beauty had all her lip filler dissolved, before having more injected, ensuring her plump pout is never anything but perfect.

Jessika is also rumoured to have had a vaginoplasty, and previously said her next procedure will be jawline sculpting filler.

Lastly, the beauty has added to her collection of tattoos this year, including the word 'daddy' on her bottom lip, and her face inside a devil on her left side.

Inked up! Lastly, the beauty has also added to her collection of tattoos this year, including the word 'daddy' on her bottom lip, and her face inside a devil on her side