She's been making her list and checking it twice!

Kelly Rowland was spotted doing some eleventh hour Christmas shopping in Beverly Hills on Saturday, December 21.

And from the looks of her infectious personality and beaming smiles, the former Destiny's Child star was relishing her time out finding those perfect gifts for her family and loved ones this holiday season.

Tis' the season: Kelly Rowland, 38, couldn't hold back her holiday smiles while out doing some late Christmas shopping in Beverly Hills on Saturday

On this day, the normally glammed-out singer, 38, opted for casual comfort in white and black striped sweatpants and a matching top.

She paired it with neon yellow Nike sneakers and pulled her long raven tresses back into a bun.

With a chill in the air in Los Angeles in recent days, the Atlanta, Georgia native also covered up in a long white coat that came down to her mid-thigh.

Mission accomplished! After browsing inside children's clothing store, Trico Field, the Destiny's Child star reappeared carrying three large bags of gifts

During her time out and about, Rowland went shopping at Trico Field, a children's clothing store.

After browsing, she reappeared in the parking lot with three big bags of gifts under her left arm and, of course, that very same big beaming smile on her face.

There's little doubt some, or all, of the items are presents for her five-year-old son Titan that she shares with husband Tim Weatherspoon.

Easy does it: The singer, 38, opted for casual comfort in white and black striped sweatpants, a matching top and neon yellow sneakers for her shopping excursion

The couple reportedly started dating back in 2011, which led to the announcement of their engagement onThe Queen Latifah Show in December 2013.

They were eventually married in Costa Rica in My 2014.

Rowland rose to fame in the late 1990s as a member of Destiny's Child, alongside Beyonce and MIchelle Williams.

The Say My Name trio is among the best-selling girl groups of all time, selling over 60 million records worldwide to date.

Family time: Roland has been married to Tim Weatherspoon since 2014; they are pictured with their five-year-old son Titan at the Baby2Baby holiday party December 15 in Los Angeles