Some said the money would be better spent tackling Australia's bushfire crisis

Taxpayers aired their outrage that hardworking Australians are footing the bill

Guida Moseley Brown Architects will pocket $38,900 for the design of the kiosk

The new 'Coffee Hub' stall will replace a mobile coffee cart in a nearby hallway

Taxpayers have forked out more than $380,000 to replace a coffee cart with a swanky new permanent cafe at Parliament House.

The 'Coffee Hub' upgrade will replace a portable coffee cart kept in a nearby hallway, despite there already being three other cafes available to journalists and politicians in the building.

Local Canberra firm Guida Moseley Brown Architects will pocket $38,900 for the design, while the bill for the fit-out came to a whopping $343,945.60.

With $6 sandwiches on the menu, as well as small coffees for $3.60, Labor Senator Kimberley Kitching said: 'Outside of the Canberra bubble, this will seem richer than a Ray's Christmas plum pudding.'

The 'Coffee Hub' upgrade will replace a portable coffee cart kept in a nearby hallway, despite there already being three other cafes in the building

Applications for tenders started earlier this year, after the Department of Parliamentary Services confirmed the pricey upgrade in November 2017.

'The high volume of customer patronage meant that the cart was no longer reliable or efficient,' a departmental spokeswoman told the Sydney Morning Herald.

'The new permanent coffee point was developed to provide a wider service offering with a range of hot and cold 'grab and go' items, improved service efficiency and better working conditions for catering staff.'

Journalists, politicians and other employees can buy from the new stall in the press area of Parliament.

But taxpayers have aired their outrage that hardworking Australians are footing the bill for the excessive new coffee kiosk.

'Good to see the LNP making more investments that benefit the whole country,' one said.

'$380K? I know shop fittings are expensive, but WTF? Bet the contract was let to a friend of a friend of an LNP polly, and doubtless, without due process,' said another.

Others suggested the money would be better spent tackling Australia's bushfire crisis.

'That would buy a firefighting heavy tanker,' one woman wrote.

'But paying firies is not a priority, that makes me cranky.'