Willian is all about immaculate timing. The immaculately timed 60-yard cross-field pass. The immaculately timed dart into the penalty box.

And, following his outstanding performance in Chelsea's 2-0 win over Tottenham on Sunday, an immaculately-timed reminder to his club that his contract issue remains unresolved.

The Brazilian's current deal expires in the summer, meaning he'll be free to speak to overseas clubs once the transfer window opens again in January.

Willian jumps for joy after scoring Chelsea's opening goal against Tottenham on Sunday

The Brazilian then converted a penalty to double Chelsea's lead just before half-time

Willian put in a man of the match performance on a brilliant afternoon for Lampard's side

Willian is 31 and Chelsea generally have a policy with players in their thirties that they only get one-year contract extensions. Willian wanted two and so we have an impasse.

He is still considered good enough to have been linked with Barcelona in recent months, the Spanish club's interest still burning despite seeing a £50million bid rejected last summer.

Willian may be an elder statesman in Frank Lampard's youthful team but he isn't exactly being shown up by the kids.

His wonderful solo goal to open the scoring at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium, driving into the Spurs box from the left side before curling home a delicious shot, a reminder that class is permanent.

And when VAR intervened to award Chelsea a penalty on the stroke of half-time following a moment of madness from Spurs keeper Paulo Gazzaniga, Willian as the experienced man stepped up to convert.

The Brazilian's first goal saw him cut inside from the left and curl home an unstoppable shot

Willian then converted a penalty to double Chelsea's advantage on the stroke of half-time

Willian at Chelsea Matches: 315 Goals: 57 Assists: 57 Honours: Premier League 2014-15, 2016-17; FA Cup 2017-18; EFL Cup 2014-15; UEFA Europa League 2018-19

They were merely the highlights of a man of the match performance full of forward bursts, searching passes and silky touches.

It was surely the performance of a player too valuable to allow to leave on a free next summer and the two parties need to get themselves back to the negotiating table.

Lampard has won plaudits for placing his faith in Chelsea's academy graduates this season, his hand forced by the club's summer transfer ban.

Fikayo Tomori, Mason Mount and Tammy Abraham - respectively 22, 20 and 22 years of age - have shown they can provide the spine of the Blues team for many years to come.

Frank Lampard has also not hesitated in trusting the likes of Reece James, 20, Callum Hudson-Odoi, 19, and Christian Pulisic, 21.

But a counterbalance of a wise old head was required for some of the season's trickier assignments and not least on Sunday as Chelsea faced a tough London derby after a run of four league defeats in five.

Willian has proved himself a worthy elder statesman in Frank Lampard's Chelsea revolution

Lampard and Willian were team-mates in 2013-14, and the boss is willing to rely on the winger

Willian stats this season for Chelsea Matches: 23 Starts: 19 Minutes: 1,691 Goals: 5 Assists: 4

It has helped Lampard greatly that Willian has stepped up to the challenge.

Willian has been at Chelsea so long his time there actually overlapped with Lampard's final season at Stamford Bridge.

Only defender Cesar Azpilicueta, who was signed in 2012, and the long-forgotten midfielder Marco van Ginkel have been on Chelsea's books for longer than the Brazilian.

In that time, Willian has accumulated over 300 appearances for the club, served under six managers (inclusive of caretakers) and won two Premier League titles, the FA Cup, League Cup and UEFA Europa League.

Willian started the season sidelined with a hamstring injury and Lampard played either Pedro or Christian Pulisic in his favoured right-side forward position in the opening four league matches as he searched for his best team.

But after Willian started Chelsea's 5-2 win at Wolves on September 14, he's been pretty much undroppable, slotting in centrally that day and on both flanks in the weeks since.

The Brazilian was on target in Chelsea's Premier League win at Burnley back in October

He also scored in Chelsea's 2-1 win away to Lille in the Champions League earlier this season

He also took the captain's armband in Saturday's 2-0 win over Crystal Palace in the absence of skipper Azpilicueta and vice-captain Jorginho.

Chelsea's line-up that afternoon had an average age of 24 years and 88 days - the club's youngest ever in the Premier League - so Willian was best suited to the role.

He has started 13 of Chelsea's 17 Premier League games and been subbed on in the other four, and started all six Champions League group matches.

Willian has admitted that he did think long and hard about Barcelona's offer last summer with his family before Chelsea took the decision out of his hands.

Since then, everything Willian has said suggests he is enjoying his mentor role at Chelsea and wishes to stay.

'I have stated several times my wish is to stay at Chelsea,' he told Yahoo earlier this month. 'I like the club very much, I feel very welcomed here, as well as my family, and we love living in London.'

After his latest match-winning performance, Chelsea may be well-advised to grant his wish.