She's had tumultuous year and a half, in which she was fired from her own TV show following a controversial tweet about Obama advisor Valerie Jarrett.

And Roseanne Barr looked glum as she was spotted strolling through LAX airport during a rare public appearance on Monday.

The former TV favourite, 67, dressed down for her flight, donning a black hooded gilet and a pair of ripped skinny jeans.

Jetting off: Roseanne Barr looked glum as she was spotted strolling through LAX airport during a rare public appearance on Monday

She teamed this with a crinkled, pale blue tunic and khaki flip flops.

Roseanne carried her essentials in a tan handbag and added an additional black cross-body bag.

The star appeared downcast as she clutched an armful of papers while making her way through the airport.

It comes after a disastrous last year for Roseanne which saw her shunned from Hollywood, stemming from when she shared a racist tweet about former Obama administration official Valerie Jarrett.

Casual look: The former TV favourite, 67, dressed down for her flight, donning a black hooded gilet and a pair of ripped skinny jeans

At the time, Barr said she wasn't aware that Jarrett was black and revealed that she wrote the now-deleted post when she was in an Ambien fog.

Roseanne has eschewed the prescription sleep aid since the incident, telling DailyMailTV: 'I've been [Ambien] sober for a year and a half since I got fired. I haven't used Ambien and my life is really, really so much better and I really would like people to understand that.'

'That's a very powerful drug that does a lot of negative harm to people who use it. I haven't used it since my Ambien tweet and you've got to be real careful.'

She added: 'It makes you do whack stuff.'

Shock: It comes after a disastrous last year for Roseanne which saw her shunned from Hollywood, stemming from when she shared a racist tweet about Valerie Jarrett

Earlier this year, she blamed her former co-star Sara Gilbert for 'destroying her life' after she condemned her 'abhorrent' comments about Valerie.

Sara , 44, tweeted her outrage after the comedian tweeted racist remarks about Obama's former administration adviser, with Roseanne's namesake show cancelled less than an hour later.

And not only does Roseanne blame Sara for the cancellation, but she also says she 'destroyed her life'.

She told The Washington Post in April: '[Sara] destroyed the show and my life with that tweet. She will never get enough until she consumes my liver with a fine Chianti.'

Stopped: 'I've been [Ambien] sober for a year and a half since I got fired. I haven't used Ambien and my life is really, really so much better and I really would like people to understand that'

'That's the tweet that got the show canceled to be honest,' Roseanne added to DailyMailTV.

The actress isn't in touch with any of her former co-stars and has no desire to confront Gilbert or try to smooth things over.

'When somebody just doesn't care how their actions affect you, what's there to talk about?' Roseanne said of her relationship with her former on-screen daughter. 'There's nothing to talk about.'

The former TV star also claimed that she was fired due to her support of President Trump, adding: 'All of Hollywood, they just hate him and they hate those of us who like him. There is no way around it.

Happier times: Roseanne's eponymous character, which she played for 30 years, was killed off with an opioid overdose in the first episode of spin-off, The Connors last year (pictured with her co-star John Goodman who played Dan Conner)

'So, yeah, I think they took me off because I liked him and I like him because I'm a Jew and he likes Israel.'

Roseanne's eponymous character, which she played for 30 years, was killed off with an opioid overdose in the first episode of spin-off, The Connors last year.

Sara, one of the first to condemn the message about Jarrett, has said she 'will always love Roseanne', calling her 'family'.

She said: 'While I'm extremely disappointed and heartbroken over the dissolution of the original show, she will always be family, and I will always love Roseanne.'