Advertisement

Pictured: Kelsea Doyle heading to The Newport to celebrate her 30th birthday

The wife of an entrepreneur who is in prison accused of trafficking $80million worth of cocaine into Australia was spotted celebrating her 30th birthday with friends.

Kelsea Doyle enjoyed a long lunch surrounded by friends at Justin Hemmes' The Newport on Sydney's northern beaches on Saturday.

The publicist was dressed in a $400 new season Christopher Esber jumpsuit for the occasion and was spotted posing and cuddling up to some female friends throughout the day.

Ms Doyle's husband, 31-year-old Matthew Doyle, was in September arrested on charges of smuggling drugs into Australia.

The businessman, who created a massage app known as the 'Uber of massages', was arrested by NSW Police accused of being involved in an international drug syndicate dealing with 300kg of cocaine worth about $80 million.

Doyle was charged with supplying a commercial quantity of cocaine and two counts of knowingly dealing with cash that was the proceeds of crime.

He has been remanded in custody.

Daily Mail Australia does not suggest Ms Doyle had any part in the alleged drug trafficking offences.

Ms Doyle was spotted welcoming friends to the venue while wearing a $400 new season Christopher Esber jumpsuit

Ms Doyle's husband (pictured together) was in September arrested and charged with drug supply. There is no suggestion she had any involvement in the alleged drug trafficking

Ms Doyle was seen laughing and posing as friends watched on during her birthday celebrations

According to court documents, Doyle allegedly supplied illegal drugs between April 23 and September 4, 2019.

Doyle has also been accused of handling criminally obtained cash totaling $220,000 between July 26 and 31 at Hammondville and $300,000 on September 4 at Cronulla.

Ms Doyle and the child she and her husband share are still living in the couple's Burraneer home.

She, her son and immediate family had an intimate gathering to celebrate her 30th birthday earlier in the week before this weekend's celebrations.

Doyle (left) has also been accused of handling criminally obtained cash totaling $220,000 between July 26 and 31 at Hammondville and $300,000 on September 4 at Cronulla. Pictured with his wife, Kelsea, who has not been accused of any wrongdoing