They're two of Australia's most successful actresses in Hollywood.

Yet Margot Robbie, 29, has revealed it was her mother Sarie Kessler who unexpectedly helped her first get to know Nicole Kidman, 52, back in February 2018.

During a recent appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live!, Margot joked Nicole is 'like a queen' to aspiring stars Down Under, before discussing their early encounters.

Mum knows best! Margot Robbie has revealed it was her mum who helped her first get to know Nicole Kidman, 52, back in 2018. Pictured: Margot (L) and Nicole (R) in October 2019

After taking her mum as her date to the Oscars in 2018, Margot laughed: 'I sat her down beforehand and said, 'Be cool, don't go up to anyone'.

'So we get there, I turn around for five seconds and she's on the front row talking to Nicole Kidman - who I hadn't worked with at that point, and didn't know.'

Recalling the hilarious moment from almost two years ago, Margot continued: 'I was hissing at her, like, 'Mum! Mum! Get back here right now'.'

'I was hissing at her, like, 'Mum! Get back here right now'': After taking Sarie to the Oscars in 2018, Margot told Jimmy Kimmel Live! that her mum went over to Nicole on the front row

She then explained it was actually Nicole who had introduced herself to Sarie.

'It turns out that Nicole, who is an absolute sweetheart, had asked someone what my mum's name was and had talked to her first and wanted her to feel comfortable.'

Prior to this, Margot and Nicole had posed together and crossed paths at various events, before eventually working alongside each other this year.

'I hadn't worked with Nicole at that point': Despite warning her mother 'not to go up to anyone', it helped her grow closer to Nicole. Pictured: Margot and Sarie at the Oscars in 2018

In October, it was revealed that Margot and Nicole had united professionally for blockbuster movie Bombshell, alongside Charlize Theron.

The drama, which is released on December 31 in Australia, is a political movie about a group of women who set out to expose CEO Roger Ailes for sexual harassment.

The movie was announced in May 2017, following the death of Ailes.

Coming soon! In October, it was revealed that Margot (right) and Nicole (centre) had united professionally for blockbuster movie Bombshell, alongside Charlize Theron (left)

Speaking on the premiere episode of W magazine's podcast Five Things With Lynn Hirschberg, Margot recently said it was 'magical' working with Nicole.

'The second they called action, she just became this crazy presence. I couldn't take my eyes off her,' said Margot.

'Everything [Nicole] said, even if it wasn't a terribly profound line, it just suddenly felt powerful. I remember thinking like, 'Okay, I get it. I get why she is who she is because that is magical.''