She's one of TV's most fashionable stars.

And Modern Family actress Sarah Hyland was spotted in Studio City, California on Saturday, looking quite winter chic in an ensemble that consisted of a brown glen plaid topcoat, cream sweater and black skinny trousers.

Hyland, 29, was on her way out of a spa when she was seen, carrying a large jug of water to stay hydrated along with a quilted black leather purse.

All business: Actress Sarah Hyland of Modern Family fame was spotted in Studio City on Saturday, looking quite winter chic

Sarah accessorized her outfit with a Gucci belt and gold hoop earrings, along with rounded mauve sunshades.

Her expression was somewhat serious as she made her way across the street, wearing black booties on her feet.

Her hair was done up in a messy bun, and she had additional spectacles clasped to the collar of her tasteful sweater.

Sarah announced her engagement to her partner, Wells Adams, in July with an Instagram post from the couple's beach vacation.

In stride: She was in an ensemble that consisted of a brown glen plaid topcoat, cream sweater and black skinny trousers

Put together: Sarah accessorized her outfit with a Gucci belt and gold hoop earrings, along with rounded mauve sunshades

The 35-year-old hunk, who appeared as a contestant on Season 12 of The Bachelorette, proposed to Sarah on an excursion to Fiji earlier this year.

The lovebirds jetted off to a private island where Wells had planned to pop the question while hiding a couple of key ingredients — a unique oval-cut Lorraine Schwartz rock in a drone, and a photographer who waited to get the big moment all on camera.

The couple - who had been dating for two years before getting engaged - are taking their time before tying the knot.

In love: Sarah announced her engagement to her partner, Wells Adams, in July with an Instagram post from the couple's beach vacation; seen here on Instagram

Wells recently said during an interview on podcast Your Favorite Thing with Wells & Brandi: 'We haven't figured out anything. Phase one was just, like, get engaged. We're still in Phase one.'

The smitten pair have yet to set a wedding date at this time, with Sarah going back to work recently on the 11th and final season of ABC's Modern Family.

Sarah and Wells were last seen out in public looking smitten as ever sharing kisses at a Los Angeles farmer's market last Sunday.