They're long-time friends who recently starred as husband and wife in the film Boy Erased.

And Russell Crowe, 55, and Nicole Kidman, 52, enjoyed a surprise reunion on Sunday after being seated next to one another during a long-haul flight from Los Angeles to Sydney.

Russell gushed about the fortuitous seating arrangement on Twitter, uploading a photo of the pair posing for a selfie inside the plane.

Fancy seeing you here! Russell Crowe, 55, and Nicole Kidman, 52, enjoyed a surprise reunion on Sunday after being seated next to one another during a long-haul flight from Los Angeles to Sydney

'Hey Qantas thanks for getting me home in time for Christmas out of the craziness that is LAX,' he Tweeted.

'And thanks for the pure gift of sitting me next to one of my favourite people in the universe,' the star added.

Nicole shared the same photo to her Instagram account on Sunday, writing: 'You never know who you’ll run into on your way home for Christmas.'

They go way back! While Russell and Nicole have only starred in one movie together, their friendship goes back many years

'30 years of friendship.. and counting,' she added.

The talented twosome are both set to celebrate Christmas Down Under.

While Russell and Nicole have only starred in one movie together, their friendship goes back many years.

'We know each other so well': Speaking to Vanity Fair magazine in 2018, Nicole revealed it was easy to play a married couple with Russell in Boy Erased as they already had a close bond

Speaking to Vanity Fair magazine in 2018, Nicole revealed it was easy to play a married couple with Russell in Boy Erased as they already had a close bond.

'The marriage itself can exist with no rehearsal, no time, no effort, because we know each other so well,' she gushed.

Nicole also described her first memory of meeting the Gladiator actor.

'My memory of Russell is in a place in Darlinghurst at my boyfriend's house, and Russell came to a party where we invited I think 500 people. And I attempted to cook paella,' the Lion star said.

'And I didn't cook the rice, so it was crunchy. Not good. Throw it out, bring out the beer,' she mused.