Australians are getting creative in the kitchen this Christmas, shunning traditional favourites like pavlova and trifle in favour of making edible wreaths from the nation's most iconic cake: the lamington.

Beloved across the country, a lamington is a classic Australian cake made from squares of sponge coated in a layer of chocolate sauce and desiccated coconut.

Lamington lovers are rejoicing after photos of the wreath were posted in a household group on Facebook, showing bakers how to make their own version using individual cake fingers, fresh strawberries and whipped cream.



The festive creation has been hailed as the ultimate Australian alternative to overly indulgent desserts, with many planning to use the wreath as a centre piece on Christmas Day - and you can make your own with six simple ingredients for just $27.



Australians are shunning traditional desserts like pavlova and trifle in favour of edible wreaths made from lamingtons this Christmas, which can be made with six simple ingredients for $27

To build the wreath, bakers will need at least four packets of lamingtons, one tub of thickened cream, a punnet of fresh strawberries and one large bag of frozen strawberries, along with kitchen staples caster sugar and vanilla extract.

Cook the frozen strawberries and half a cup of sugar in a saucepan over a medium heat, stirring until the mixture has become thick and syrupy.

Strain the syrup through a fine sieve before returning to the pan and adding a drop of vanilla essence. Simmer the mixture until thickened and set aside to cool.

Beating the cream and remaining sugar with an electric mixer, slowly add one third of the cooled syrup, folding to create a rippled pink-and-white effect.

The festive creation has been hailed as the ultimate Australian alternative to overly indulgent desserts, with many planning to use the wreath as a centre piece on Christmas Day

How to make your own Lamington wreath with six ingredients in six simple steps What you need: - 500g frozen strawberries ($4) - Two to three cups of caster sugar ($2) - One teaspoon of vanilla extract ($4) - Two cups of thickened cream ($2.90) - 24 lamington cakes ($2.50 per pack of six) - 250g fresh strawberries ($4) Total cost of dessert: $26.90 Method: 1. Place frozen strawberries and half a cup of sugar in a large saucepan over medium heat. Stir, gently crushing strawberries until sugar dissolves. Bring to the boil and simmer on low-medium heat until mixture is syrupy. 2. Remove from heat and strain syrup through a fine sieve into a jug. Return syrup to the pan and stir in the vanilla essence, bringing to a simmer over a medium heat. Simmer until slightly thickened and set aside to cool. 3. Beat cream and remaining sugar using until firm using an electric mixer. Add one third of the syrup to cream and fold to create a rippled effect. 4. Carefully spoon cream mixture into a large snap-lock bag and pipe a large ring on a flat serving plate to form the base. 5. Pipe cream mixture onto one side of each lamington and place upright on the ring to make the wreath. 6. Decorate using whole fresh strawberries, spooning any remaining syrup mixture on top to finish. Source: Taste.com.au

Carefully spoon the cream mixture into a large snap-lock bag and pipe a large ring onto a flat serving plate to outline the base of the wreath.

To assemble, pipe the cream onto one side of each lamington, sticking the fingers onto the base ring in an upright position to form a circle.

Once the wreath has been completed, decorate with whole fresh strawberries, drizzling any remaining syrup on top to finish.

The DIY dessert received widespread praise on social media, racking up thousands of likes and hundreds of comments, with many branding it better than traditional home favourite, pavlova.

The easy DIY dessert received widespread praise on social media, with many branding it better than traditional home favourite pavlova

Many said they would make the wreath instead of rich desserts which often go to waste after sumptuous Christmas lunches

'What a super smart, quick and simple idea! Looks very pretty as well, thank you for sharing,' one woman said.

Others said they would make the wreath instead of rich desserts which often go to waste after sumptuous Christmas lunches.

'I actually think I will make this on Christmas Day instead of dessert - after eating the main meal I have found most people don't really want dessert the last few years. This is a great alternative!' said one woman.