Lucy Mecklenburgh has hit back at fans who questioned where she and her fiancé Ryan Thomas will live when her baby is born in the New Year.

The mother-to-be addressed fans' queries during an Instagram Q&A session in which she revealed a rather complicated arrangement between her and Ryan.

The former TOWIE star, 28, said questions were 'doing my head in' as she explained that her and Ryan, 35, will split their time between their separate homes - even though they are four hours apart.

Leave me alone! Lucy Mecklenburgh, 28, has hit back at fans who questioned where she and her fiancé Ryan Thomas, 35, will live when her baby is born in the New Year

Lucy, who lives in Essex, said she and Ryan 'live together' but have 'two homes', with the second being in Manchester, where Ryan is from.

Pleading with fans to 'stop asking', she wrote: 'Still getting 100's Q's asking about our living situ.

'So when bubba is here we will be mainly at mine I want to be near my mum etc but we will of corse [sic] travel back to Manchester to see Ryan's family a lot to.

'So baby will have all his essentials in Manchester aswell [sic].

This is how it is: The mother-to-be addressed fans' queries during a Q&A session in which she revealed a rather complicated arrangement between her and Ryan (pictured last month)

'We do have to double up on a few things,' she went on.

'I feel very lucky to have 2 homes in 2 places that I love. I don't see it as an inconvenience at all. There are a lot worse situations to be in. Pleaseee stop asking now.' (sic).

Annoyed: The former TOWIE star said questions were 'doing my head in' as she explained that her and Ryan, 35, will split their time between their separate homes

And in a video on her story the star went into detail, explaining: 'Me and Ryan live together but we have two homes.

'So we split our time between two homes and occasionally we are apart due to work.'

Lucy and Corrie star Ryan had fans scratching their heads after they hinted they would not live together when their baby arrived.

The star wrote in a post: 'We will always have 2 homes. And both love Essex & Cheshire.

Just stop: Lucy appeared to be a little annoyed at the constant questions about her living arrangements and shared one question which queried the arrangement

'I don't see it as a problem I actually think we are extremely lucky to have 2 homes.'

The fitness guru announced her pregnancy in August, after Ryan proposed during a trip to Italy's Amalfi Coast in June.

Ryan is already dad to Scarlett, 11, with his ex Tina O'Brien.

Although Lucy is not due to give birth for another few weeks, she has already planned out her unborn son's love life.

Future: The fitness guru announced her pregnancy in August, after fiancé Ryan proposed during a trip to Italy's Amalfi Coast in June (pictured in September 2018)

The TV personality is expecting her first baby within just a week of best friend Lydia Bright, 29, and the pair have confessed that they want their children to get married when they grow up.

Lydia is expecting a baby girl with her ex-boyfriend, Lee Cronin, and recently shared her hopes that Lucy's little boy will marry her daughter.

She told Closer magazine: 'Oh God, it's definitely amazing to share this experience with my best friend. I called her and told her I was pregnant and then she called her back the next day and told me she was too!...

'It was such a big thing for both of us to get our heads around. I fell pregnant really quickly so it was a massive shock. At night, we would sit and try and get our heads around becoming mums.

'We've said they might end up dating in the future! We've also said they could be husband and wife one day - but then we're so close we thought that might be quite weird because they'll probably end up growing up like cousins.'

Both Lucy and Lydia shot to fame in 2010 with their starring roles in TOWIE, which led to their reality careers.