Idris Elba's 17-year-old daughter has made a decision on where she will be attending college next year.

On Saturday, Isan Elba took to Instagram and revealed that she's enrolling at New York University next fall.

'Introducing Tisch School of the Arts’ new student! I am proud to say that I will be a Film and Television Production major at NYU! #classof2024,' Isan wrote.

Proud papa: Idris Elba's daughter, Isan Elba, is heading to college in the fall 2020

Isan wasted little time in flaunting her allegiance to her new university.

In the Instagram snap, she can be seen wearing a gray hoodie with NYU in purple lettering while posing in Washington Square Park in New York City.

The aspiring filmmaker has been living with her mother, Hanne 'Kim' Norgaard, Idris' first wife, in Atlanta, Georgia.

Excited: Isan, who has been living with her mother in Atlanta, Georgia, shared on Instagram that she will attend New York University, where she will be studying film and television

Initially, Isan wanted to become an actress, but she has since changed course and is looking to make her mark on the other side of the camera.

'I really got to see all of the behind-the-scenes, like what the sound department does, the lighting department, the best boy, etc. I didn't even know what a best boy was before,' she confessed in an interview with Glamour.

'And then getting to hang out with the producers, that was really cool. So I'm definitely thinking about being a filmmaker.'

Family matters: Isan is Idris' first child, that he shares with first wife Hanne 'Kim' Norgaard; his current wife Sabrina Elba is pictured alongside Idris and Isan

Earlier this year, Isan accompanied her father to the Golden Globes ceremony as an ambassador.

As part of the prestigious title, which is chosen by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, she assisted in handing out trophies to the winners and escorting them off the stage.

'I told her to keep her back straight; elegance is presence,' Idris, 47, revealed to E! News about the tips he gave his little girl before the show.

'Smile and nod politely, even if you can’t understand what anyone’s saying. If you feel like you’re going to pass out, don't … I'm just like really proud. I can't help but be a dad.”

Being active in social media and having a commitment to philanthropy is also part of the criteria to be selected a Golden Globe ambassador.