Chloe Ferry helped Charlotte Crosby heal her broken heart in the wake of her split from Joshua Ritchie with a girls' night out.

The television personality, 24, hit Newcastle's nightlife scene on Saturday as she reunited with ex Geordie Shore star's Charlotte, 29, and Sophie Kasaei, 30.

Chloe ensured all eyes were on her as she channelled her inner Barbie in a candyfloss pink bustier.

Sizzling display: Chloe Ferry helped Charlotte Crosby heal her broken heart in the wake of her split from Joshua Ritchie with a girls' night out in Newcastle on Saturday

The reality star flaunted her cleavage and tiny waist in the racy top, which she teamed with ripped denim jeans.

Styling her hair in glamorous waves, Chloe added a boost to her height with perspex heels and finished off her risque look with a black Chanel bag.

Charlotte, meanwhile, put on a leggy display in a red mini dress, which came complete with ruched detailing and puff ball sleeves.

Party-time: The television personality, 24, hit Newcastle's nightlife scene with ex Geordie Shore star Charlotte, 29

Ample cleavage: Chloe ensured all eyes were on her as she channelled her inner Barbie in a candyfloss pink bustier

Working it: The reality star flaunted her cleavage and tiny waist in the racy top, which she teamed with ripped denim jeans

She wore her peroxide blonde hair in a sleek straight look and showed no signs of heartache as she posed for the camera.

Sophie also opted to show off her hourglass figure in a slinky foil mini dress and dazzling diamond choker.

The television personality appeared in high spirits as she tottered into Jalou nightclub after enjoying dinner in Jesmond.

Glam: Styling her hair in glamorous waves, Chloe added a boost to her height with perspex heels and finished off her risque look with a black Chanel bag

Their night on the town comes after Charlotte announced she and Josh, 25, had parted ways after two years in November amid claims he refused to settle down with her.

The television personality called her ex Joshua a 'f***ing little toerag' for signing up to Celebs Go Dating just weeks on from their split.

She said on Instagram last Thursday: 'So a bit of a revelation today, I am shocked, shocked to say the least but when you're sitting in Dubai and you find out that your ex-boyfriend who you didn't think was like this at all, is going on Celebs Go Dating.'

Long limbs: Charlotte, meanwhile, put on a leggy display in a red mini dress, which came complete with ruched detailing and puff ball sleeves

Leggy: Sophie also opted to show off her hourglass figure in a slinky foil mini dress and dazzling diamond choker

Pre-Christmas celebrations: Sophie flashed a smile to the camera as she headed into the club

Night on the toon: The television personality appeared in high spirits as she tottered into Jalou nightclub after enjoying dinner in Jesmond

Best friend: Sophie was on hand to support Charlotte in the wake of her split

Charlotte added: 'I'm not going to f***ing lie right, at one point we were on the verge of getting back and I said "I've been asked to do Celebs Go Dating" but obviously I said "No I would never do that".

'We've only just finished, we were in a two year relationship, we lived together and it's just wrong" and his words to me were "Do you think I'd ever do that?"'

Charlotte was left devastated leaving their shared flat to move back in with her mum.

Chloe, meanwhile, split from her on-off boyfriend of two years Sam Gowland after she accused him of cheating with Love Island beauty Amber Davies- something they both vehemently denied.