EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) - Cassius Winston was productive as usual, scoring 21 points and making seven assists, when No. 15 Michigan State routed Eastern Michigan 101-48.

For a change, the senior star had some help.

Foster Loyer scored a season-high 13 points, Aaron Henry had 12 points, Xavier Tillman scored 11 and Marcus Bingham added 10 points for the Spartans.

"Just what the doctor ordered," coach Tom Izzo said.

Michigan State (9-3) has won four straight and it may keep rolling if Winston's supporting cast can get an emotional boost after solid performances.

"It's huge seeing guys play with confidence and knock down some shots," Winston said. "When you see guys out there having fun and making plays, everybody wants to be a part of that."

Eastern Michigan's Boubacar Toure, center, and Michigan State's Gabe Brown, left, and Marcus Bingham Jr. (30) vie for a rebound during the first half of an NCAA college basketball game, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019, in East Lansing, Mich. (AP Photo/Al Goldis)

The Eagles (9-2) did not have a double-digit scorer. Ty Groce had nine points on 3-of-12 shooting and no one else on the team scored more than seven.

"There weren´t any driving lanes and we couldn´t get open looks," coach Rob Murphy said. "We didn´t shoot the ball well and we missed opportunities with free throws."

The Eagles shot 24% overall and made just 13 of 30 free throws.

Murphy said he was going to "flush," the film of the game.

Eastern Michigan made its first basket at the 12:14 mark of the first half after missing 14 shots.

The Spartans led by as much as 26 over the opening 20 minutes and were ahead 41-20 at halftime after making 54% of their shots and holding the Eagles to 19% shooting.

Michigan State did not let up in the second half, taking a 40-point lead with 13 minutes left and leading by as much as 57 points.

"We didn´t beat the Celtics, but we beat a team that is very good defensively," Izzo said.

BIG PICTURE

Eastern Michigan: In his ninth season, Murphy has helped the Mid-American Conference program get off to its best start since it also won nine of 10 games to open the 1996-97 season.

Murphy said the lopsided loss does not affect his team's ability to compete in the MAC, saying every game left on the schedule is winnable.

Michigan State: Winston can't win games by himself and there are signs he will have some help. Besides the double-digit scorers, freshman forward Julius Marble matched a season high with nine points in eight-plus minutes.

"All of those guys were good, but Cassius was great," Murphy said.

Henry's play had to be particularly encouraging for the team after he was 1 of 9 and had three points and six turnovers. The sophomore forward matched a career with six assists.

"He´s a triple-threat guy," Murphy said. "When they can play in the middle of the zone, it makes it tough because he can score and make the pass."

INJURY REPORT

Freshman shooting guard Rocket Watts missed his fourth straight game with a leg injury.

GETTING PAID

Murphy said his program was paid more than $100,000 to play at Michigan State and the money will fund an international trip for the team next summer.

"I´m glad coach Izzo gave us the opportunity," said Murphy, whose first interview to be an assistant college coach was at Michigan State.

BEYOND THE ARC

Michigan State made a season-high 15 3-pointers and connected on a season-high 50% percent of its shots outside of the arc.

HELPING HAND

Loyer played point guard at times with Winston at shooting guard.

"It was good to be able to play with Cash and get him a couple open looks," Loyer said.

POLL IMPLICATIONS

Despite the rout and win at Northwestern earlier in the week, the Spartans may not move up more than a spot or two in The Associated Press college basketball poll.

UP NEXT

Eastern Michigan: Play at UNLV on Saturday.

Michigan State: Hosts Western Michigan on Dec. 29.

___

More AP college basketball: https://apnews.com/Collegebasketball and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25

Eastern Michigan's Ty Groce, front left, goes to the basket against Michigan State's Xavier Tillman during the first half of an NCAA college basketball game, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019, in East Lansing, Mich. (AP Photo/Al Goldis)

Michigan State's Cassius Winston, left, shoots a three-point basket against Eastern Michigan's Noah Morgan during the first half of an NCAA college basketball game, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019, in East Lansing, Mich. (AP Photo/Al Goldis)

Michigan State's Xavier Tillman (23) pulls down a rebound against Eastern Michigan's Boubacar Toure, right, during the first half of an NCAA college basketball game, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019, in East Lansing, Mich. (AP Photo/Al Goldis)

Michigan State's Malik Hall, right, shoots against Eastern Michigan's Jalen King during the second half of an NCAA college basketball game, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019, in East Lansing, Mich. (AP Photo/Al Goldis)

Michigan State's Marcus Bingham Jr. (30) dunks against Eastern Michigan's Boubacar Toure during the second half of an NCAA college basketball game, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019, in East Lansing, Mich. (AP Photo/Al Goldis)

Michigan State's Cassius Winston, right, shoots against Eastern Michigan's Chris James (13) during the second half of an NCAA college basketball game, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019, in East Lansing, Mich. (AP Photo/Al Goldis)