Advertisement

David and Candice Warner left the kids at home as they hosted a wild Christmas party on a super-yacht in Sydney Harbour on Friday afternoon with about 50 of their closest friends and family.

The cricket hero dived into the water while his wife danced on the deck as they ended 2019 on a high, after completely turning their lives around this year, following a series of scandals and heartbreaks in 2018.

On Friday, WAG Candice, 34, got the party started as she held a glass of champagne up in the air while cutting loose with her girlfriends on-board the luxury vessel, which costs $4,000-an-hour to charter.

Party time! David (right) and Candice Warner (left) left the kids at home as they hosted a wild Christmas party on a super-yacht in Sydney Harbour on Friday afternoon with around 50 of their closest friends and family members

The tanned mum-of-three stunned in a floral mini-dress, as she wore her blonde tresses in a high-ponytail and opted for a glamorous makeup palette.

She flaunted her trim pins in the thigh-skimming designer dress and busted several moves on the boat.

Candice couldn't contain her laughter and appeared to keep her arms raised all afternoon while constantly dancing and soaking up the sunshine alongside several of her girlfriends.

Holidays: The cricket hero dived into the water while his wife danced on the deck as they ended 2019 on a high, after completely turning their lives around this year, following a series of scandals and heartbreaks in 2018

WAG: On Friday, Candice, 34, got the party started as she held a glass of champagne up in the air while cutting loose with her girlfriends on-board the luxury vessel, which costs $4,000-an-hour to charter

Glam! The tanned mum-of-three stunned in a floral mini-dress, as she wore her blonde tresses in a high-ponytail and opted for a glamorous makeup palette

Dancer: Candice flaunted her trim pins in the thigh-skimming designer dress as she busted several moves on the boat

Meanwhile, David, 33, looked to be leading the more adventurous party-goers into the water.

He was photographed diving, back-flipping and throwing himself into the harbour in all kinds of positions, as other attendees cheered him on and snapped photographs on their iPhones.

David later led several of the guests in a race across a floating foam mat, while wrestling each other into the water and stopping to take in the stunning scenery.

Adrenaline junkie David later explored the water on a paddle-board, as Candice continued partying.

Time of her life! Candice couldn't contain her laughter and appeared to keep her arms raised all afternoon while constantly dancing and soaking up the sunshine alongside several of her girlfriends

Making splash! Meanwhile, David, 33, looked to be leading the more adventurous party-goers into the water

Jump! David was photographed diving, back-flipping and throwing himself into the harbour in all kinds of positions

Getting the shot! Attendees cheered David on and snapped photographs on their iPhones

The group chartered Anthony Bell's super-yacht Ghost II for the day, which costs $4,000-an-hour.

They cruised past Watsons Bay and across to Store Beach after boarding the vessel at 11:45am, and dropped the anchor for lunch at 1pm, just south of Manly at North Head, The Australian reports.

As music then blared throughout the afternoon, David and Candice appeared set on celebrating.

Throughout 2019, the couple's personal and professional lives have gone from strength to strength.

In March, David returned to the Australian cricket team alongside Steve Smith, after the pair were given a 12-month ban for their involvement in the Cape Town ball tampering scandal in 2018.

Cute! Candice kept an eye on David as he splashed around in the water

Race! David later led several of the guests in a race across a floating foam mat

Wow! They later stopped to take in the stunning scenery during their day on the water

It's Christmas time! Guests cut loose at the party alongside David and Candice

'I was always coming back to international cricket if selected. The thing that kept me going was my wife and my kids. [I've] got great support at home,' said David in June.

'My kids and my wife is just, she's just my rock. She's unbelievable. She's determined, disciplined, selfless.'

On November 30, David scored his highest ever individual Test score of 335 not out against Pakistan.

In June, Candice gave birth to their third daughter, Isla Rose Warner, in London.

'Our little family is now complete. Ivy and Indi are so proud of their sister. @davidwarner31 Your support was and is amazing. Isla we love you,' gushed Candice to Instagram after Isla's safe arrival on June 30.

Impressive! The group chartered Anthony Bell's super-yacht Ghost II for the day, which costs $4,000-an-hour

Nice day for it! David and Candice (front, centre) were joined by almost 50 friends for the party

Cruising! They cruised past Watsons Bay and across to Store Beach after boarding the vessel at 11:45am, and dropped the anchor for lunch at 1pm, just south of Manly at North Head, The Australian reports

Too hot? David covered up a baseball cap and vibrant shirt after taking a break from the water

Months before giving birth, David revealed that Candice suffered two 'unfortunate' miscarriages during the fall-out of his ball tampering scandal in 2018.

'The miscarriage was a tragic consequence, a heartbreaking end to a horror tour. Like so many families who've experienced a miscarriage, it's just really sad,' Candice previously told The Australian Women's Weekly.

'The entire ordeal from the public humiliations to the ball tampering, it had taken its toll and, from that moment, we decided that no sport, nothing will ever impact our lives like that again.'

What a year! As music then blared throughout the afternoon, David and Candice appeared set on celebrating

He's back! In March, David returned to the Australian cricket team alongside Steve Smith, after the pair were given a 12-month ban for their involvement in the Cape Town ball tampering scandal in 2018