Russell Crowe has arrived Down Under just in time for Christmas.

On Sunday, the Oscar winner was spotted looking rather tired as he arrived at Sydney Airport after a long-haul flight from Los Angeles.

The 55-year-old just looked like another jet-setter as he strolled through the terminal in a casual ensemble.

Welcome home! Oscar winner Russell Crowe, 55, looked tired as he jetted into Sydney Airport after a long-haul flight from Los Angeles on Sunday

The bearded actor wore a loose-fitting black Ralph Lauren polo shirt, black Adidas track pants and a pair of blue sneakers.

The Hollywood actor finished his look with a gold watch and a black backpack slung over his shoulders.

At one point he hid his famous visage behind a pair of sunglasses.

Relaxed attire: The star just looked like another jet-setter as he strolled through the terminal in a casual ensemble

Low-key arrival: The bearded actor wore a loose-fitting black Ralph Lauren polo shirt, black Adidas track pants and a pair of blue sneakers

The essentials: The Hollywood actor finished his look with a gold watch and a black backpack slung over his shoulders

Russell is one of a number of Hollywood stars jetting back into Sydney for the holiday period, including fellow Oscar winner Nicole Kidman.

Coincidentally the two actors were sat next to each other on their Qantas flight from Los Angeles to Sydney, with him sharing a selfie of the pair to Twitter.

'Hey Qantas thanks for getting me home in time for Christmas out of the craziness that is LAX,' he began, sharing a close-up snap of Nicole.

Shades: At one point he hid his famous visage behind a pair of sunglasses

Movie role: Russell will soon be seen again on screen as a psychotic stalker in Unhinged

He added: 'And thanks for the pure gift of sitting me next to one of my favourite people in the universe.'

Russell has made a number of trips back to Australia in recent months after his remote property in NSW was badly damaged by bushfires.

Meanwhile, Russell is preparing to return to screens in the film Unhinged, which will see him play a crazed stalker.

A-lister homecoming: Russell is one of a number of Hollywood stars jetting back into Sydney for the holiday period

Russell's appearance in Unhinged marks a significant departure from the roles that have made him a global star.

Back in 2000, he played Maximus in the Oscar-winning film, Gladiator, which required him to work out daily for four months to get in shape.

He also displayed an athletic physique in 2005's Cinderella Man, in which he played boxer James Braddock.