She's been spending her time in Miami, Florida as she gears up for her upcoming Superbowl performance.

And on Saturday afternoon, Jennifer Lopez, 50, and her fiancé Alex 'A-Rod' Rodriguez, 44, took a break from her rehearsal to head to a yoga studio.

The Hollywood A-lister showed off her toned physique as she carried her personalized cup into the studio as her number one fan trailed closely behind her.

Getting ready: Jennifer Lopez was spotted heading to a yoga studio on Saturday afternoon in Miami as she preps for her upcoming Superbowl Halftime Performance

She arrived looking chic in a black Guess sports bra and black high-waisted leggings.

Her hair was tied up in a high bun as she sported a pair of chic black sunglasses and signature gold hoop earrings.

A-Rod also came ready for a good sweat session while sporting a simple black jacket and plain black sweatpants.

WOW! She arrived looking chic in a black Guess sports bra that showed off her incredible abs and black leggings

Jennifer's zen moment comes after her two major award nominations and ahead of her highly anticipated Superbowl performance.

'It's like winning the Oscar,' the Hustlers star revealed while on CBS Sunday Morning.

'It's the biggest show that there is. It has the biggest audience. You get to have like this big production. You don't get to do that on tour. Everything's like, budget-conscious and 'You can do this and you can do that.' It's a different experience and I think it's just like a fantasy for all musical artists to be able to play the Super Bowl and have like that 12 minutes of an amazing show. I don't know. There's just something exhilarating about it.'

Sweat session: Alex 'A-Rod' Rodriguez headed into the yoga studio with his partner in crime while in Miami for Jennifer's Superbowl performance

And her supportive partner has been right by her side through it all and says she has 'been rehearsing for, like, six weeks,' back in November to make sure she gives fans the biggest performance of her career.

'When we got that call from [NFL commissioner] Roger Goodell and the league and Jay-Z, we were thrilled and she was in tears,' he revealed reliving the moment.

In the past, J-Lo has said she has had a dream to perform at the iconic event ever since watching Diana Ross's performance back in 1996.

Getting ready: Jennifer just wrapped her It's My Party Tour. She is pictured above in Moscow, Russia back in August