They both rose to fame as stars of ITV's The Only Way Is Essex.

And Amy Childs and Demi Sims were their usual glamorous selves on Saturday as they stepped out to celebrate Dean Rowlands's birthday at The Ball Pit Cocktail Bar in Shoreditch.

Amy, 29, cut a busty figure in a plunging frilled top with corset detailing, while Demi, 23, opted for a zipped up top and tiny mini skirt as they headed into the bash for the model and fiancé of her cousin Harry Derbridge.

Look at me go: Amy Childs, 29, showed off a busty frilled top which boasted corset detailing as she stepped out to celebrate Dean Rowlands's birthday in Shoreditch on Saturday

Amy paired her outfit with a phenomenal pair of knee-high velvet boots, while her brunette tresses were styled in a spectacular top knot, and accessorised her look with enormous gold hooped earrings.

Demi opted for a leather jacket over her tight top and also boasted a Balenciaga-branded shoulder bag.

On her feet, the star wore a chunky pair of boots, while her blonde tresses were stylishly straightened.

So gorgeous: Amy's brunette tresses were styled in a spectacular top knot as she larked about in the ballpit during the birthday bash

My jewellery collection: The star accessorised with a glitzy pair of loop earrings as she flaunted her ample cleavage in the revealing top

Amy's outing comes after she confirmed Celebs Go Dating rumours by joining Amy Hart filming outside Anna Williamson and Paul Carrick Brunson's offices in November.

The former TOWIE star joined the likes of EastEnders star Dean Gaffney, James Lock, Made In Chelsea's Olivia Bentley and Hollyoaks actor Malique Thompson-Dwyer in completing the lineup.

Also spotted during filming were dating coaches Anna and Paul who will reprise their roles in helping stars find love.

Showing off: Demi's tight top showed off her trim figure, while her lithe legs were on display beneath her mini skirt

Help! At one point Demi was buried deep beneath the balls as she larked about at the birthday celebration

Loving: The stars were out in force to celebrate the birthday of Dean Rowland (pictured) who is engaged to Amy's cousin Harry Derbridge

Amy, who split from the father of her one-year-old son months ago, looked effortlessly chic in a pair of skinny black trousers and a matching blazer adorned with gold buttons, she teamed the items of clothing with a plunging white shirt.

Adding some finishing touches, she opted for knee-high leather heel boots and oversized gold hooped earrings.

Amy styled her blonde highlighted brunette locks into a voluminous blow-dried hairdo, she added a slick of glamorous make-up.