Nearly £3 million of Chinese-made fake designer-label goods have been seized by Border Force officials in the run-up to Christmas.

Counterfeit Gucci scarves and fake Nike trainers are among more than 10,000 items confiscated in a crackdown on organised crime gangs trying to exploit the UK market.

Home Office officials said all the ‘Christmas counterfeits’ seized since the start of November originated in China.

Officials at the Milton Keynes inland pre-clearance centre confiscated 850 fake Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent, Versace, Nike, Champion and Converse bags and trainers worth £842,000

Counterfeit Lyle and Scott merchandise is pictured being seized, above. Counterfeit Gucci scarves and fake Nike trainers are among more than 10,000 items confiscated in a crackdown on organised crime gangs trying to exploit the UK market

The stash includes 1,300 counterfeit Chanel, Burberry and Gucci scarves worth an estimated £900,000 seized at London Gateway Port, while officials at the Milton Keynes inland pre-clearance centre confiscated 850 fake Gucci, Yves Saint Laurent, Versace, Nike, Champion and Converse bags and trainers worth £842,000, 3,400 items of counterfeit bedding and fake Royal Crown Derby Collection tableware valued at £300,000, and £778,000 worth of imitation Dr Dre Beats headphones and Apple earphones.

Home Office officials said all the ‘Christmas counterfeits’ seized since the start of November originated in China. Counterfeit Gucci merchandise is pictured above

Security Minister Brandon Lewis said: ‘This Government is committed to cracking down on criminals and the trade in counterfeit goods.

‘People who deliberately purchase counterfeit goods are funding and supporting serious and organised criminals and their illegal activity. These seizures show how effective Border Force officers are.’

Once items are confiscated, Border Force’s trade teams work with the big brands to establish whether they are genuine.

If they are shown to be fake, the goods are destroyed, and the trademark and copyright holders decide whether to privately prosecute the importers.

Consumers who fear they have bought counterfeit items are advised to contact Action Fraud or their local Trading Standards office, or visit the Citizens Advice website.