Inamorata founder Emily Ratajkowski cracked a rare smile as she and her husband Sebastian Bear-McClard did domestic duties at Whole Foods Market 365 in LA's Silver Lake neighborhood on Saturday.

The 28-year-old DNA Model and the 32-year-old Film Independent John Cassavetes Award nominee then walked their beloved fur baby, German shepherd puppy Colombo.

Emily repped her own brand in the $90 black 'Lafayette' catsuit while Sebastian sported an Acne Studios jean jacket and $175 navy KITH 'Bleeker' sweatpants.

Domestic duties: Inamorata founder Emily Ratajkowski cracked a rare smile as she and her husband Sebastian Bear-McClard shopped at Whole Foods in LA on Saturday

PDA: The 28-year-old DNA Model rested her forehead against the 32-year-old Film Independent John Cassavetes Award nominee as she scrolled through her phone

Ratajkowski and Bear-McClard originally adopted their 'good boy' on May 11, and he was trained by Kaelin Munkelwitz.

The London-born SoCal native and the New Yorker plan on celebrating the holidays at their $2M 1,650-square-foot, three-bedroom home in Echo Park.

Turns out the married couple of 22 months moved to California in October after 'receiving a substantial payout from Rogers Investments to vacate' an artist's loft at 49 Bleecker Street.

Pushing the cart: Emily repped her own brand in the $90 black 'Lafayette' catsuit beneath a brown trench coat

Swag: Sebastian sported an Acne Studios jean jacket and $175 navy KITH 'Bleeker' sweatpants

Family: Ratajkowski and Bear-McClard then walked their beloved German shepherd puppy Colombo

Puppy love: They originally adopted their 'good boy' on May 11, and he was trained by Kaelin Munkelwitz

Fur baby: Emily Insta-storied a snap of herself and her precious pup in the car

Eyebrows raised when Sebastian stopped paying their $4,900/month rent in 2017 and attempted to register the unit under New York's Loft Law in order to avoid eviction, according to New York Post.

As of December 9, Bear-McClard and Ratajkowski have yet to pay their former landlord Antoni Ghosh the $250K in damages he sued them for in Manhattan Supreme Court.

On Saturday, Emily promoted her $135 'Figure' earrings (designed by her father based on her mother) by reposting artist Tekla Tsabadze's depiction of her as Johannes Vermeer's 4665 painting, Girl with a Pearl Earring.

'How much does Colombo hate his hat?' The London-born SoCal native and the New Yorker plan on celebrating the holidays at their $2M 1,650-square-foot, three-bedroom home in Echo Park (pictured Thursday)

Mysterious: The married couple of 22 months moved to California in October after 'receiving a substantial payout from Rogers Investments to vacate' an artist's loft at 49 Bleecker Street

Sued for $250K in damages: Eyebrows raised when Sebastian stopped paying their $4,900/month rent in 2017 and attempted to register the unit under New York's Loft Law in order to avoid eviction (pictured December 9)

As for Sebastian, he just co-produced Benny & Josh Safdie's Uncut Gems, which hits US theaters next Wednesday and UK theaters on January 10

The Manhattan crime thriller - boasting 93% rating on Rotten Tomatoes - is headed up by Adam Sandler, who takes a dramatic turn as Howard Ratner, a charismatic jeweler and gambler.

The A24 drama is projected to amass $15M at the box office over Christmas, according to Deadline.

'Girl with a Figure Earring': On Saturday, Emily promoted her $135 'Figure' earrings by reposting artist Tekla Tsabadze's depiction of her as Johannes Vermeer's 4665 painting