Carnage followed previous night of punch-ups and arrests on day dubbed 'Mad Friday' or 'Black Eye Friday'

One shirtless man appeared detained in handcuffs against black car before being loaded into van by officers

Rowdy partygoers were pictured fighting on the streets of Manchester as celebrations continued last night

Advertisement

Christmas party season was well underway across Britain last night as hundreds of partygoers took to the streets to celebrate the festive period.

Many revellers donned glamorous attire as they flocked to pubs and bars in Manchester, while others wore very little as they braved chilly temperatures on the last Saturday before Christmas Day.

As the alcohol flowed late into the night, some rowdy revellers clashed with police when they threw punches and started fights with other partygoers.

One shirtless man appeared to be detained in handcuffs against a black car by officers on the street, before he was loaded into a van by three policemen.

Others, some in fancy dress, were in high spirits as they enjoyed the company of their friends and colleagues during the weekend before Christmas.

The festivities followed another night of punch-ups and arrests across Britain during the booziest night of the year, known as 'Mad Friday' or 'Black Eye Friday'.

Two men fight on the streets of Manchester as partygoers gather around to watch the carnage on night after 'Mad Friday'

Others, some in fancy dress, were in high spirits as they enjoyed the company of their friends and colleagues during the weekend before Christmas

One woman wore a red Mrs Claus dress and knee-high black leather boots as she made her way into a club in the city centre

Police were also out in Manchester in full force as Christmas party season continued after the previous night of carnage

The night, the last Friday before Christmas, is typically when workers go out to celebrate the start of their holidays with colleagues, safe in the knowledge that they have the entire weekend in which to recover.

Police officers across the country sustained injuries as they attempted to intervene in fights which broke out on 'Black Eye Friday'.

In Middleton, Greater Manchester, an officer was knocked unconscious and his female colleague was dragged to the floor and stamped on as the pair tried to break up a pub fight at around around 2.35am on Saturday morning.

Both officers were rushed to hospital as those involved in the assault fled the scene. They have since been discharged and no arrests have been made, Greater Manchester Police confirmed.

The force said a number of men involved in the disorder had been ejected from Infinity nightclub on Long Street a few minutes before the attack.

Detective Sergeant Tim O'Callaghan, of GMP's Rochdale division, said: 'This is a disgusting way to treat police officers, who spend their days and nights trying to keep the people of Greater Manchester safe.

One shirtless man was seen being detained in handcuffs against a black car by officers on the streets of the busy city

He was then seen being loaded into a police van by three officers as the evening's festivities got underway in Manchester

Another couple were seen in colourful fancy dress as they made their way through the rain soaked streets of Manchester

'We are providing welfare support to the two officers who were attacked after bravely trying to intervene in a large fight and keep the peace.

'We will not tolerate this kind of behaviour and are 100 per cent committed to bringing those responsible to justice'.

A Greater Manchester Police spokesman added: 'The male officer was punched in the head, knocking him unconscious. The female officer was also punched, dragged to the floor and then stamped on.

'Both officers were taken to hospital but have since been discharged.

'The offenders fled the scene after the assault.'

GMP later released CCTV images of three men it wishes to speak to in connection with the attack, and urged witnesses to come forward.

The festivities followed another night of punch-ups and arrests across Britain during the booziest night of the year, known as 'Mad Friday' or 'Black Eye Friday'

Some revellers were in high spirits as they enjoyed the company of their friends and colleagues during the weekend before Christmas

A shirtless man holds his jacket in one hand as he points towards a car on the busy streets of Manchester last night

Another woman opted for a festive red and white dress with a multi-coloured headband as she celebrated the festive period

Detective Inspector Karl Ward said: 'We have been continuing our inquiries throughout the day and we are now releasing CCTV images of three men we wish to speak to in connection with this shocking incident.

'If you think that you might recognise the men pictured in the images then I would encourage you to please contact us as a matter of urgency.

'We are also keen to speak with anyone who has any additional information that they believe can assist us with our investigation.'

Elsewhere, a Cleveland policeman suffered injuries to the face and eye after he was repeatedly punched while on duty.

Two further police officers were also assaulted on the busiest night of the year when a brawl broke out in a Wetherspoons in Exeter.

Officers were called to the The Imperial pub at 6.10pm to reports of a fight involving 15 people, Devon Live reported. A male and female officer both sustained 'minor injuries' in the brawl and four males were arrested as a result of the fight.