The daughter of an elderly volunteer firefighter has slammed Scott Morrison for holidaying in Hawaii amid the bushfire crisis, saying her father hasn't taken a break in years so he can fulfil his duties.

Angela Higgins, a mother from Sydney, posted the emotional letter to the prime minister on Facebook, urging Mr Morrison to 'DO something more' about the worst bushfire season in Australia's history.

Ms Higgins said her 71-year-old father, a retired accountant, and her mother planned to take a holiday but it was put on hold to take care of her dying grandmother.

'[They] were just setting off on that delayed holiday when Dad's Mum took a fall,' she wrote.

Angela Higgins (left) penned an emotional letter to Scott Morrison, calling for him to 'DO something more' about the worst bushfire season in Australia's history

Ms Higgins said her 71-year-old father (pictured) hasn't had a holiday in years because of his sense of duty to the RFS

'Once again they became full time carers … until they were able to find a place in a suitable care facility.

'With Grandma now well looked after, Mum and Dad could finally take some time out but then these fires started and they show no signs of stopping.'

Ms Higgins said her hardworking father had a major cardiac arrest while clearing a fire trail with the Rural Fire Service.

'We're so grateful for the RFS training and equipment, Dad's fellow yellows used the defibrillator to save his life. He's recovering well and is now back with the RFS fighting these catastrophic fires,' she said.

Ms Higgins posted her heartfelt words alongside a photo of her father wearing his bushfire gear.

She said he has been battling fires all season with his local RFS brigade.

'Mum took this photo at 9am when Dad returned after a full night of fighting the Hat Hill Rd fires in Blackheath. He's exhausted but still smiling,' Ms Higgins said.

'Mum manages everything at home and is well prepared so that Dad can go out to protect other people's homes. They are a team, a force to be reckoned with but they are tired.

'While my Mum and Dad won't get to take a holiday this year, they could really do with a break,' she told the Prime Minister.

'And so I am asking you please, now that you have had some time out with your family, please return revitalised and refreshed and DO something more. More resources, more empathy, more appreciation and support.'

Ms Higgins's post has been shared more than 2,500 times, and comes two days after Mr Morrison touched back down in Australia from his controversial family holiday in Hawaii.

Scott Morrison came under heavy scrutiny last week when he jetted off to Hawaii with his family amid the bushfire crisis. Pictured: Morrison in Hawaii

Scott Morrison was pictured relaxing on a Hawaiian beach with his wife Jenny as he waited for a flight back to Australia amid national outrage over his trip

More than 100,000 people signed a petition calling for the nation's leader to be sacked for taking a personal trip during the worst bushfire season in Australia's history.

During a press conference on Sunday, Mr Morrison was grilled by reporters.

'I get it that people would have been upset to know that I was holidaying with my family while their families were under great stress,' he said at the RFS headquarters in Sydney Olympic Park.

'They know that I will not stand there and hold a hose. I am not a trained firefighter nor am I an expert like those in the next room doing an amazing job.

'But I am comforted by the fact that Australians would like me to be here simply so I can be here alongside them as they go through this terrible time... I apologise for that.'