The newly-released movie version of Cats has been re-edited by director Tom Hooper and reissued to cinemas and movie theaters a week after its original release.

This follows a slew of bad reviews from film critics, who have slammed the film across the board.

The film - released last Friday - is reportedly being updated because Hooper didn’t finish working on it until the day before the world premiere, which was last Monday.

Too little, too late: An updated version of the already infamous movie musical Cats is being sent to movie theaters... even though the film was already released on Friday

In an exchange on Twitter on Friday, it was revealed that the following note was sent to theaters playing the film: 'DCDC and Deluxe-Technicolor will be sending updated FTR-20 SMPTE DCPs of Cats which will include some improved visual effects. The runtime is unchanged.'

While the actual content of the movie will most likely remain unchanged, some visual effects may have been fixed or improved by the director and his post production team.

While Hooper won an Academy Award for directing the 2010 gem The King's Speech, which also won Best Picture that year, this film, based on the Andrew Lloyd Webber Broadway musical, is suffering with a terrible 19 percent rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

Most of the reviews are fairly savage, including one summarized simply with the word, 'Woof', however the Daily Mail's own Brian Viner found he had a soft spot for the feline fiasco.

Praising the film, he wrote: 'Eight out of ten cinemagoers will enjoy it, as long as they go along prepared for what is essentially a feline-themed ballet.'

The man responsible: As reported by Variety, the film's director Tom Hooper didn’t actually finish working on the film until the day before the world premiere, which was last Monday

'Improved visual effects': The note that was reportedly sent to movie theater operations staff and managers

Kitten play: The film, meanwhile, is in the midst of receiving abysmal word of mouth and negative reviews, that have combined to create a curiously attention-getting 'anti-buzz'

Why the smile: Cats, based on the Andrew Lloyd Webber Broadway musical, is suffering with a terrible 19 percent on Rotten Tomatoes

Jason Derulo, who stars as Rum Tum Tugger in the film, is himself rather displeased with critics' poor opinions, telling TMZ in New York City on Thursday that he thought the film is 'a deportation to another dimension.'

'Reviews don't matter man, reviews don't matter,' he also insisted, calling the film 'an incredibly brave piece of art.'

It should also be noted that the audience score for Cats on Rotten Tomatoes is considerably higher than the critic composite rating, standing at a much healthier 64 percent.