Madonna's relationship with toyboy beau Ahlamalik Williams has been given the seal of approval by his parents, despite both being younger than her.

Speaking to The Mirror, mum Laurie, 55, and dad Drue, 59, revealed that the American hitmaker, 61, is already planning a future with the dancer, 25, and they believe the couple have actually been dating for a year.

Madonna's new beau has reportedly sparked concern among her pals, as he is the latest in a long line of boyfriends who are decades her junior.

Going well: Madonna's relationship with toyboy beau Ahlamalik Williams has been given the seal of approval by his parents (singer pictured performing in May)

Drue told the publication that he and Laurie have both met Madonna and she has already spoken about planning a future with Ahlamalik when her Madame X tour comes to an end next year.

The couple said they even believe their son could marry the Like A Prayer hitmaker, despite the vast age gap.

He said: 'Madonna went on and on about how much she cares about our son. She said he's intelligent and very talented.

'She told us she is so much in love with him and that we didn't have anything to worry about as she was going to take care of him.

Proud: Mum Laurie, 55, and dad Drue, 59, revealed that the American hitmaker, 61, is already planning the future with her dancer beau, 25, despite the 36 year age gap

Drue also noted that Madonna is actually two years older than him, but he isn't concerned about the age gap.

He added: 'I think they have been dating for a year and got serious at the start of this latest tour, the Madame X tour.'

Drue also said that he and Laurie believe Ahlamalik has been dating Madonna for a year, though rumours of their relationship only surfaced in June 2018.

The couple first met the hitmaker in September, and they say that their son has even met her six children.

Close: Madonna first appeared to confirm her romance with Ahlamalik last week when the couple were spotted getting cosy on a balcony in Miami

Youngster: Ahlamalik recently posted this picture of himself as a child to his 80,000 Instagram followers, saying it was an image of 'when I started dancing'

Justify My (Age Gap) Love! Madonna's new dancer beau follows a long line of toyboy lovers the singer has been Hung Up on... (and the gap's just getting bigger)

Madonna first appeared to confirm her romance with Ahlamalik last week when the couple were spotted getting cosy on a balcony in Miami.

The National Enquirer reported back in late October that the singer got serious with her new man in August but her friends are 'worried' about her as she keeps dating men much younger than she is.

'She won't even look at a guy who's approaching half her age!' a source said.

Smile: Ahlamalik pictured as a 20-year-old, by which time he had already started work as a dancer on Cirque du Soleil's Michael Jackson production

Well travelled: Ahlamalik's dance performances have taken him around the world - to Paris, London, Shanghai and Taipei among other locations

Lost love: Madonna's previous objet d'amour, was Portuguese model Kevin Sampaio, 26, who is 33 years her junior

'Her friends think she needs to start focusing on older guys if she ever wants to find an enduring relationship!

'It's great she still has the ability to attract these kids, and she seems smitten for now — but you only have to look at Madonna's dating history to figure it's got very little chance of lasting.'

Madonna's previous objet d'amour, was Portuguese model Kevin Sampaio, 26, who is 33 years her junior.

Mr Sampaio is said to have impressed Madonna by keeping their friendship quiet and earning her trust.

She liked how he did not ‘go running to the press’ after their first date, a source said.

They had been linked from 2017 until recently and he's a big name in the fashion world, working for the likes of Dolce & Gabbana, Versace and Armani.

Kevin met Madonna when he appeared in her B**** I'm Madonna music video and the pair shared a very passionate kiss as she moved through a colourful doorway in a nightclub during the video.

The American music superstar has a history of dating younger suitors - including dancers Brahim Zailbat, then 23, and Timor Steffens, then 26.