An emotional funeral and Celebration of Life service was held for murdered Barnard College student Tessa Majors on Saturday

An emotional funeral and Celebration of Life service was held for murdered Barnard College student Tessa Majors on Saturday.

A private funeral was also held in the 18-year-old's hometown of Charlottesville, Virginia on the same day where family and friends performed a song she wrote for her band and shared heartfelt testimonies about her vibrant life.

Majors was fatally stabbed on December 11 as she was walking in Manhattan's Morningside Park near the Barnard College campus after she was attacked by three teens in a robbery that turned deadly.

So far a 13-year-old and 14-year-old have been arrested in her death. On Friday police released photos of a third teen, an unnamed 14-year-old boy, wanted for the stabbing.

In the wake of Majors fatal attack, the non-profit group Guardian Angels have been patrolling the 30 acres of Morningside Park to ward off crime.

A private funeral was held in the 18-year-old's hometown of Charlottesville, Virginia on Saturday where family and friends performed a song she wrote for her band and shared heartfelt testimonies of her vibrant life. The pamphlet handed out at the Celebration of Life ceremony pictured above

A band performed her favorite songs and a song Majors wrote for her band Patient 0 entitled 'Prom Queen'

On Saturday 1,000 mourners gathered at Majors' high school St. Anne's-Belfield School, where she graduated just six months ago, and where music and poetry was performed in the 90-minute memorial

A sign reading 'A Celebration of Tessa Rane Majors' was placed outside of St. Anne's-Belfield School on Saturday

St. Anne's-Belfield School in Charlottesville, Virginia pictured above

On Saturday 1,000 mourners gathered at Majors' high school St. Anne's-Belfield School, where she graduated just six months ago, and where music and poetry was performed in the 90-minute memorial.

'She loved life and got her money’s worth out of it. The family is heartbroken and will miss her so very much. But they feel her presence currently more than her absence, and feel the love and support they’ve received from around the world,' Majors' father Inman wrote in a letter for the memorial program.

'She liked to discover new things and then to share that discovery freely. She liked to introduce old friends to new ones and expected everyone to just get along,' the remembrance added.

One of the songs Majors wrote for her band Patient 0 entitled 'Prom Queen' was performed at the service, with the poignant lyrics: 'Remember the night she rose from the sea/ Stood with arms open wide as she walked right past me/ I tried not to mind as she went by/ The freckles on her face, the stars in the sky.'

More than 25 of her friends also performed one of her favorite songs Paul Simon's 'Graceland' at moving service.

Her friend Nahlij Corbin said: 'Essentially, Tess had a really big band and I was a part of it. You all are too.'

David Lourie, the head of St. Anne's, said the diverse sea of people attending the service was a testament to Major's lasting influence.

He said: 'Each and every one of us can share stories about Tess and how our time with her at school, in camp, in the music studio, on the stage, over a cup of coffee, left us feeling better, left us feeling more optimistic about the future.'

A video of Majors recorded during her time at St. Anne´s was played, where she described using songwriting as an outlet to express and understand her own feelings. She encouraged others to embrace their own vulnerabilities.

'The world will benefit from hearing your unique perspective much more than it will from your silence,' she said in the video shot last May.

David Smith, a teacher of Majors, said she brought people together.

'Her confidence allowed her to knit the world together within this school and outside of it. She tethered communities who didn't speak to one another because she thought we were all worth knowing, and that we should all be friends,' he said.

The New York Police Department released photo of the third teenage suspect (pictured) in Majors' case

Police believe the 14-year-old boy (pictured) is the one who stabbed Majors in December 11 while mugging her

Guardian Angels,a nonprofit crime prevention group, have vigilantly been patrolling the area to ward off crime in the 30-acre space (pictured)

Curtis Sliwa: 'It seems the police's attitude has been, 'They're juveniles, what do you want us to do?' That to me just fuels other teenagers to look at that and realize, 'We can go on a robbery spree'. That really has to be dealt with.'

The Guardian Angels (pictured) began patrolling Morningside Park after Majors was killed on December 11

Smith noted that many people who attended the service lost a special loved one in their lives.

'I think Tess would look down to us, extend a hand — maybe with a roll of the eyes — and say, 'It's okay to cry, but get up you weirdo. Dust yourself off. Quit your whining. Jump up and down and dance',' he continued.

On December 15 hundreds of grievers and members of the Barnard College community gathered at Morningside Park, lighting vigil candles to honor the slain teen.

The vigil was organized by New York City officials and local leaders attended the event to not only pay tribute to Majors, but provide solutions.

Assemblywoman Inez Dickens called on the city's authorities to enforce a more proactive presence in the sprawling, 30-acre park.

'Not just additional lighting, not just additional cameras… We need officers foot patrol walking in the park 24 hours a day,' Inez said.

One mourner agreed, saying: 'I hope as tragic as it is this will be a galvanizing event for the neighborhood.'

Pictured: Maxwell Majors (far left) Chrsity Majors (left), Tessa Majors (right) and Inman Majors (far right)

David Smith: 'Her confidence allowed her to knit the world together within this school and outside of it'

On Friday the New York Police Department released photo of the third teenage suspect in Majors' case after he slipped out of a car while on his way to turn himself into authorities.

Authorities typically do not release pictures of underage suspects, but have done so as a massive manhunt has been started to locate the boy.

The 14-year-old is believed to be the one who stabbed Majors after the 13-year-old suspect spoke to authorities while in police custody.

Authorities believe that three teens - one 13-year-old and two 14-year-olds -were involved in the tragic attack.

According to confessions from the 13-year-old suspect, he and two friends decided to rob someone after classes let out that afternoon.

Since Majors attack and calls for more security in Morningside Park, the nonprofit group Guardian Angels have vigilantly patrolling the park.

The group, known for the red jackets and beret hats, started 34 years ago, a time in the 1980's they say was riddled with crime.

Curtis Sliwa, the Guardian Angels founder, told New York Post neighbors have called on the group about young people harassing, assaulting and robbing residents.

On December 15 hundreds of mourners and members of the Barnard College community attended the candlelight vigil held atop the stairs of Morningside Park where Majors desperately fought for her life and tried to find help

Silwa said: 'There has been lethargic, impotent police response and the person responsible for that is the mayor.'

'It seems the police's attitude has been, "They're juveniles, what do you want us to do?" That to me just fuels other teenagers to look at that and realize, "We can go on a robbery spree'. That really has to be dealt with.'

In a post shared to their Facebook page, The Guardian Angels pushed back at New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio.

'Last nite I told the dozens of Guardian Angels that we would have to triple our efforts because on Jan. 1 the rules for the criminals will now favor them. Home Invasions, robberies and domestic abuse arrests will result in no bail,' they wrote.

'They will be cut loose to go back into the streets...to encourage those arrested to show up for their court dates Mayor de Blasio is offering them NY Met and concert tickets. That is CRAZY.'

Silwa rallied a group of Guardian Angels inside Morningside Park before the group dispersed.

'If you're a juvenile, you know this is the place to go,' he said, 'the cops don't want to go up and down these stairs here.'

Morningside Park became the most dangerous park in the city for muggings after 11 robbers were recorded in the first nine months in 2019, New York Post reports.

That's compared to nine muggings in Claremont Park in The Bronx and 10 in Prospect Park in Brooklyn.

The NYPD reports a 82 percent spike in reports of violent crime and sex crimes in Morningside Park and the surrounding area in the past year ending December 8.