The new US owners of British defence company Cobham have vowed to keep the firm in the UK as the government continues to face criticism for allowing the £4 billion takeover to go ahead.

Cobham, a world-leading expert in air-to-air refuelling, said Advent International had committed to maintaining a UK headquarters, to continue funding research and development at its Dorset offices and to keep using the company's current name.

Contracts with the Ministry of Defence (MoD) and the Home Office will also stay in the UK with a 'commitment not to restructure the UK operating companies' capacity in a way that would result in some, or all, of the relevant activities being developed and/or supplied from outside the UK without the written approval of the relevant (Government) department'.

Meanwhile, the future sale of any parts of the business will have to be agreed by the MoD and the Home Office.

Dorset-based defence company Cobham is a world-leader in air-to-air refuelling technology

Lady Cobham (pictured) said the decision to allow Advent International to buy the company had been 'cynically timed to avoid scrutiny on the weekend before Christmas'

The takeover deal was first approved by shareholders in August before being put to a review by the Competition and Markets Authority and government departments because of national security concerns.

The government's decision to allow the deal, now expected to be concluded on January 17, to pass without a more in-depth investigation has sparked a backlash and fierce criticism from the family of Cobham's founder.

The manner in which the deal was rubberstamped by the government also prompted anger after it was slipped out late on Friday night by Business Secretary Andrea Leadsom.

Ms Leadsom signed off on the deal after Advent agreed to a series of legal undertakings outlined on Monday.

Shonnel Malani, partner at Advent, said: 'Advent takes its custodianship of Cobham seriously, and we are confident the transaction and undertakings being given on national security, jobs and future investment, provide important long-term assurances for both Cobham's employees and customers, particularly in the UK and also globally.'

But Lady Nadine Cobham, the daughter-in-law of the company's founder Sir Alan Cobham, said: 'This is a deeply disappointing announcement and one cynically timed to avoid scrutiny on the weekend before Christmas.

'In one of its first major economic decisions, the government is not taking back control so much as handing it away.'

Despite the pledges to maintain the company's UK links, the takeover is likely to spark concerns about previous takeovers of British firms which ultimately led to operations being moved out of the country.

For example, when US-based Kraft bought Cadbury in 2010 it had initially promised to keep a factory near Bristol open before later backtracking.

The rules around major takeovers were subsequently toughened up but fears of a repeat still linger.

Boris Johnson defended the decision to allow the Cobham takeover to go ahead. The Prime Minister said at the weekend that the sale showed the UK was open for business.

Boris Johnson, pictured during a visit to see UK troops in Estonia on Saturday, defended the sale of Cobham to Advent International

'I think it's very important that we should have an open and dynamic market economy,' he said.

'A lot of checks have been gone through to make sure that in that particular case all the security issues that might be raised can be satisfied and the UK will continue to be a very, very creative and dynamic contributor to that section of industry and all others.'

The business was founded in 1934 as Flight Refuelling Ltd, before listing on the stock market in 1985.

The firm's air-to-air refuelling systems played a key part in the 1982 Falklands War.