A UPS driver has collapsed and died after working a gruelling 12-hour shift for the logistics firm.

Father-of-two Paul Crush, 42, had a suspected heart attack at the company's depot in Stanford-le-Hope in Essex on Wednesday after delivering up to 240 parcels a day.

It is common for workers to take around 100 packages a day, but due to the Christmas push he had reportedly been posting more than 200 for the past six weeks.

Paul Crush (pictured), 42, had a suspected heart attack at the company's depot in Stanford-le-Hope in Essex on Wednesday after delivering up to 240 parcels a day

The father of two from Chelmsford, Essex, earned around £30,000 a year.

He was one of 120 workers at UPS's Essex hub, with friends claiming he was under too much pressure.'

A friend told the Sun on Sunday: 'I saw him having coffee before he started his shift and he looked tired and said it had been a struggle for him to get out of bed - but he was as cheerful as ever.

'That was his problem. he was the kind of guy who would never say no to extra work.

The father of two from Chelmsford, Essex, who earned around £30,000 a year, was one of 120 workers at UPS's Essex hub under pressure, with friends claiming it was too much

'He'll have died of natural causes but his mates who knew him think he's been worked to death.'

He claimed UPS has a league table for its staff, with the Stanford-le-Hope hub performing well.

Mr Crush is survived by his wife Tracey, 40, who was said to be 'beside herself with grief', as well as a son, four, and an eight-year-old daughter.

Mr Crush is survived by his wife Tracey, 40, who was said to be 'beside herself with grief', as well as a son, four, and an eight-year-old daughter

UPS said in a statement: 'We are deeply saddened by the loss of our fellow UPSer. Our thoughts are with his family, friends and colleagues.'

His death is not being treated as suspicious by police.

A GoFundMe page in Mr Crush's name has raised more than £2,000.

It was posted with the statement: 'We'd like to start a collection to ease the pressure on the Crush family, perhaps assist with funeral costs or just to treat the children, whatever may help.

'Please give as little or as much as you can afford - thank you!'

