Ant McPartlin's estranged wife Lisa Armstrong has reportedly splashed out £40,000 on a festive family getaway to Mexico.

According to The Sun, the makeup artist, 43, has taken her mum and six relatives abroad for Christmas, after her dad Derek, 71, passed away in May following a battle with cancer.

It comes as Lisa recently set tongues wagging after she was spotted leaving a hotel with a mystery man last week, who MailOnline went onto exclusively reveal is music industry merchandising executive Jeremy Hewitt.

Bouncing back: Ant McPartlin's estranged wife Lisa Armstrong has reportedly splashed out £40,000 on a festive family getaway to Mexico

A source said that Lisa and her loved ones decided that they needed some time away for Christmas after Derek's death, and has splashed out on the lavish Mexican getaway.

They said: 'It's been a very difficult year for all of them since Derek died.

'Lisa wanted everyone to be together this Christmas and thought it would help if they all had something to look forward to. It won't be easy without him but at least they will all be together.'

MailOnline has contacted representatives for Lisa Armstrong for comment.

Drama: The makeup artist has reported jetted off for the festive season, as her divorce with Ant rumbles on (pictured in 2015)

It comes as Lisa was spotted leaving a hotel with a mystery man last week, who was later revealed by MailOnline to be music industry merchandising executive Jeremy Hewitt.

The Strictly head make-up artist's companion sheepishly hid his face as he was photographed carrying her luggage out of the London hotel.

Lisa has also reportedly refused to sign a non-disclosure agreement preventing her discussing her marriage to Ant, 44, as their £62 million divorce battle rages on.

Struggling: A source has claimed that Lisa has taken her mum Linda (pictured)and six relatives on the break following her dad Derek's death in May from cancer

I'm A Celebrity host asked Lisa to sign a gagging order to protect his reputation, before he agrees a final financial settlement, according to The Sun.

But Lisa, who tied the knot with him, has allegedly vowed she 'won't be silenced' and rejected the Non-Disclosure Agreement.

Ant's solicitors are said to be have been sending regular legal letters to Lisa, leading to speculation that his legal bill has gone over £1.5 million.

The presenter's solicitors are said to be determined to keep details of the divorce private and stop proceedings reaching court where information about their marriage could be brought into the public domain.

Ongoing: Lisa has also reportedly refused to sign a non-disclosure agreement preventing her discussing her marriage to Ant, as their £62 million divorce battle rages on

A source told the website: 'Lisa is an honest, loyal and decent human being. She isn't interested in how much money she gets. She won't sign an NDA. As far as she's concerned, he is welcome to his money.

'It's not about that for her. She's appalled at the way she has been treated ever since they split up, by people she loved, trusted and called friends.'

A source close to Ant is also said to have told the website that he has agreed to a second formal arbitration with Lisa.

'They said he is not trying to pressure her to sign the NDA and he will sign one too to stop the case going to court,' they said.