Caprice Bourret has reportedly married her long-term boyfriend in a secret wedding.

The former lingerie model, 48, who is set to star on Dancing On Ice next month, is said to have wed millionaire Ty Comfort earlier this month at a London registry office.

The couple, who have six-year-old sons, Jax and Jett, have been in a relationship since 2001.

Devoted: Caprice Bourret has reportedly married her long-term millionaire boyfriend Ty Comfort in a secret wedding earlier this month (pictured together in June 2018)

Caprice and Ty alleged secret wedding comes just weeks prior to her Dancing On Ice debut, which will see her step out with Hamish Gaman in January.

A source told The Sun: 'Caprice and Ty have an incredible relationship and have done for years, so this was always on the cards for them.

'But now that she is spending huge amounts of time in training for Dancing On Ice, they aren't getting as much time together as they'd like.

Wedding bells? The former lingerie model, 48, is said to have wed millionaire Ty Comfort earlier this month at a London registry office (pictured last month)

'It has really made Ty appreciate what they have together and that seems to have prompted his suggestion that they get married quickly and quietly, rather than wait longer to tie the knot in a big fancy do.'

Caprice was one of the world's best models and shot to fame when she wore a see-through dress at the National Television Awards in 1996.

She and Ty began dating in 2011 after being introduced by a friend.

They welcomed their boys in 2013 and despite being extremely close in age, Jax and Jett are not twins.

Love at first sight: Caprice and Ty began dating in 2011 after being introduced by a friend (pictured in January)

One of the youngsters was born to a surrogate after Caprice and Ty had struggled to conceive.

But shortly after their surrogate became pregnant, the former model found out she was pregnant too.

The star battled a brain tumour in 2017 and had surgery to remove it before making a full recovery.

And Caprice is set to make her Dancing On Ice debut in January.

The actress confirmed the exciting news of her participation in the show in a pre-recorded message on Lorraine after admitting that she had 'no nerves' about the gruelling challenge.

TV personality Caprice will join a slew of stars including veteran presenter Trisha Goddard, Love Island's Maura Higgins and Michael Barrymore taking to the rice for the new series.

Speaking about the exciting news, Caprice said: 'I've got some really big news. I'm going to be on Dancing on Ice 2020! At the moment no nerves. I'm excited more than anything.'