He's continued to have an ongoing feud with fellow rapper Eminem, releasing three diss tracks over the past few weeks.

But Nick Cannon and his public spat was nowhere to be seen on Saturday, slipping into a Santa Claus suit to give back to kids in Los Angeles.

The 39-year-old dressed up as the jolly man in the big red suit and handed out presents to deserving children as part of the second annual St. Nick Boys & Girls Club Shoe Giveaway event.

Scroll down for video

Giving back for the holidays: Nick Cannon dressed up as the man in the big red suit on Saturday as part of a give back charity event in Los Angeles

Nick was dressed in a Santa suit that looked a little too big for him.

He accessorised the look with a Christmas hat and opted to wear black Converse sneakers.

Sponsored by The Zen, the rapper was seen holding one of their boxes of shoes in front of a shoe box inspired Christmas tree.

Nick, is that you? Nick was dressed in a Santa suit that looked a little too big for him

With daddy: Nick was also joined by one of his sons, Golden, two, during the event

Radio star, Melissa Rios, appeared in high spirits in her red dress as she posed with some fairy floss.

Nick was also joined by one of his sons, Golden, two, during the event.

He was dressed in a checked shirt and red trousers to match his dad.

The comedian's other two children, twins, Monroe and Moroccan, eight, who he shares with Mariah Carey, were not in attendance.

Just like dad: Golden was dressed in a checked shirt and red trousers to match his dad

Where's the jolly belly? Nick's suit appeared a little too big for him

Pals: Nick took a moment to pose with co-host Melissa Rios at the Power 106 event

Nick's do-good outing comes amid his ongoing feud with fellow rapper, Eminem.

Thursday saw him release a third diss track, in two weeks, aimed at Eminem, titled, Cancelled: Invitation.

The track claimed Eminem was the 'KKK of his generation.'

The show began with with Nick sitting in a studio, listening to all of Eminem's (real name Marshall Mathers) shots taken at him throughout the past decade.

The two-minute compilation concludes with Fat Joe's track Lord Above released earlier this month, where Eminem called Nick, 'neutered,' before he pulls out a previously unreleased Eminem track, claiming he's been, 'disrespecting our queens for years.'

Saying hi! The pair took to the stage and spoke to the crowd at one point

Candy! Radio star, Melissa Rios, appeared in high spirits in her red dress as she posed with some fairy floss

Say cheese! Nick posed with some lucky kids who attended the event

He continues: 'Matter of fact, why don't you tell them how you really feel, Marshall?' before an old Eminem track plays with lyrics, 'Black girls are b****es, black girls are dumb.'

He goes on to call him the 'KKK of his generation,' before asking if he 'took it too far' because 'he's a rap star.'

The track ends with Nick speaking to the black community, stating, 'You heard him, that's how he feel about us. We just gonna keep letting that ride?'

Back at it: Nick's do-good outing comes amid his ongoing feud with fellow rapper, Eminem. Thursday saw him release a third diss track, in two weeks, aimed at Eminem, titled, Cancelled: Invitation

Lyrics: The track claimed Eminem was the 'KKK of his generation'

Nick's Instagram bio currently reads, @Eminem #TheInvitation.'

Foolish Pride, which was reportedly recorded in 1998, and another song with racist lyrics released in 1993, were uncovered back in 2003 by The Source, with owners Ray Benzino and Dave Mays holding a press conference to play the recordings.

Enimem released a statement shortly thereafter, apologizing for the lyrics, stating he made that record after breaking up with an African-American girlfriend.

'The tape ... was something I made out of anger, stupidity and frustration when I was a teenager. I'd just broken up with my girlfriend, who was African American, and I reacted like the angry, stupid kid I was. I hope people will take it for the foolishness that it was, not for what somebody is trying to make it into today,' Eminem said in his apology back in 2003.