She triumphantly unveiled her slimmed-down frame on Friday after losing 8kgs since her wedding in November.

But Married At First Sight's Jules Robinson, 37, has issued a sage reminder to fans that a positive mindset is far more important than the number on the scales.

Taking to Instagram on Sunday, the WW (formerly known as Weight Watchers) ambassador shared an impassioned essay about self love, writing: 'Body confidence doesn't come when you get the 'perfect' body. It comes when you accept your body and embracing the one your in and all it does and has done for you.'

'A scale can never measure your worth!' Married At First Sight's Jules Robinson, 37, has hit back at body shamers - after unveiling her 8kg weightloss

From the heart: Taking to Instagram on Sunday, the WW (formerly known as Weight Watchers) ambassador shared an impassioned essay about self love

'Our thoughts are more powerful than other people's opinions of us. Say thank you to your body and see the difference in your mindset and how you will feel moving forward,' she continued.

The spotlight-loving salon owner designer went on to explain the importance of working on your mindset before focusing on your appearance.

'If you don't work on the inside, nothing will feel right on the out side, no matter what size you are. A scale can never measure your worth. Remember that. You got this,' the shapewear-selling red-head wrote.

Transformation: Jules showed off her 8 KILO weight loss in an Instagram post on Friday. Pictured on the left in August at the 3kg mark, and on the right in December at the 8kg mark

It comes after Jules, who recently tied the knot with her 'TV husband' Cameron Merchant in a legally-binding ceremony, debuted her 8kg weightloss on Instagram last Friday.

She shared a photo of herself in a black one-piece swimsuit in August, where she had lost three kilos at the time, and compared this to photos taken during her December honeymoon in Vanuatu.

Alongside additional honeymoon pictures of herself in two-piece swimsuits, Jules spoke about her health and fitness journey in the post's caption.

Love looks good on her: Jules shared photos of herself on her December honeymoon in Vanuatu (pictured after her eight kilo weight loss)

Dedicated: 'I made it no secret that I was on a health mission before my wedding,' the brand ambassador told her followers in the post's caption

'I made it no secret that I was on a health mission before my wedding,' she began.

'I can honestly say I've always been comfortable and confident in my own skin, but now I feel all that and healthier and stronger.'

The Channel Nine star told her followers that she's never 'been obsessed with losing a number' on the scales, as 'how you feel' is what's most important.

Content: 'I embrace my curves. I love being curvy, and I choose a healthy mind to go with my health choices for the future,' Jules proudly stated online

'Over the past 12 months, somehow I put on 10 kilos,' Jules candidly revealed. 'I can proudly say I've never dressed differently because of a dress size or felt the need to cover up because of what size I am.'

'I embrace my curves. I love being curvy, and I choose a healthy mind to go with my health choices for the future.'

Jules concluded by saying that she's getting her body prepared for motherhood, and all that matters is how she feels.

Televised nuptials: Jules vowed to lose the weight in time for her November televised wedding with Cameron Merchant, 35

How she did it: Jules told New Idea in December, that alongside a Weight Watchers diet (that still includes carbs), she lost the weight with a varied fitness regimen. Pictured with Cameron

'I still have cellulite, this is normal, I'm still 'fat' in some people's eyes, but that's OK!' she penned.

'I'm not! I'm proud of me and how I feel about my body is all that matters! Size does not define you!'

Jules told New Idea magazine in December, that alongside a Weight Watchers diet (that still includes carbs), she lost the weight with a varied fitness regimen.

'On the run-up to the wedding, I was seeing my personal trainer, Nat, as often as I could, attending her paddleboarding and boxing on the beach classes too.

'My love of boxing has really grown over the last few months, and I'm much better at it now than when I first started.'