And baby makes three for this happy family.

Cam - whose real name is Camaron Marvel Ochs - and her husband Adam Weaver have announced that they have welcomed a healthy baby girl to their little family.

Lucy Marvel was born on Thursday the 19th and marks the first child for the elated couple.

Happy couple: This is the first child for the happy couple who welcomed their little girl on the Thursday December 19

'Lucy Marvel Weaver breech at 39wks, a next-day c-section (ouch) & here we are... three of us now ([Photo Credit]: @kendrareidphotography @bellababyphotos),' she wrote in the caption along with a series of photos of her newborn daughter.

In the portraits, the happy couple is seen smiling down at their new bundle of joy as Adam squeeze Lucy's cheeks together.

For the photos, Lucy was wrapped up in a white blanket with blue and orange floral designs on it as her mom and dad held her for one of the first couple of times.

Big announcement: Cam first announced her pregnancy back in October on her social media saying: 'We've been keeping a secret to ourselves for the past seven months, but I feel like it's time to let you guys in on it'

Cam first announced her pregnancy back in October on her social media saying: 'We've been keeping a secret to ourselves for the past seven months, but I feel like it's time to let you guys in on it!'

She then panned the camera to show herself cradling her baby bump for her followers to see.

The two then jetted off to Tokyo and Bali for their honeymoon.

'It's just fun saying someone's your husband!' she said at the time. 'I'm excited for our life together, encouraging each other and getting more dogs.'

Sweet couple: Cam and Adam smile together at the CMA Awards together in 2017 in Nashville, Tennessee

Cam rose to fame back in 2015 when her single Burning House became her greatest hit.

The single went to appear on her debut album Untamed which helped her snag a Grammy nomination for best country solo performance.

Last year, she hit the road with singer Sam Smith and helped co-write Palace on his latest album, The Thrill of It All.