Advertisement

Australian actress Cate Blanchett, 50, and her husband Andrew Upton, 53, have sold their Berowra Creek holiday home after just three weeks on the market.

According to Domain, the three-level property in New South Wales, Australia, reached a figure at the top of their expected $1.6million to $1.75million (AUD) price range.

Despite nearby bushfire smoke infiltrating the nearby waterways of the Hawkesbury River area, there was fierce competition for the property by three buyers.

Going, going, gone! Actress, 50, has listed her $1.6million Berowra Creek riverfront holiday home in Australia, boasting terraced gardens, a self-contained apartment and pontoon. Pictured with husband Andrew Upton, 53, in 2017

Purchased by the A-list couple in 2014 for $1.495million, the abode is situated on the edge of the Berowra Valley National Park, and is only accessible via water.

This marks the second Australian property the couple have sold in the past three years, as they now reside in a $6million (AUD) English manor, Highwell House, in East Sussex.

The ground floor level is dedicated to a fully-contained one-bedroom apartment, while the upper levels contain three spacious bedrooms, a study, and living and dining areas with river views.

Interiors merge rustic charm with contemporary finishes, such as the timber and stainless steel kitchen.

Those wanting to relax and unwind can make use of the spa, sauna, terraced gardens and pontoon.

Guests can also reside in a detached bunkhouse, located at the rear of the property.

Idyllic: Purchased by the A-list couple in 2014 for $1.495million, the three-level abode is situated on the edge of the Berowra Valley National Park. Pictured in its original state in 2014 prior to a renovation

Riverfront: Cate and Andrew's holiday home is perfect for those wanting to escape and unwind as it's only accessible via water

Domain understands Cate and her family used the home as a 'hideaway' when they lived in their Hunters Hill home in Sydney.

Cate and Andrew sold the estate in 2017 for $18million (AUD), and relocated to the United Kingdom where they splashed out on an English Manor dubbed Highwell House, in East Sussex, for £3million ($5.7m AUD).

The couple who wed in 1997 are proud parents to sons Dashiell, 17, Roman, 15, Ignatius, 11, and daughter Edith, five.

Design: The living and dining areas offer picturesque river views. The kitchen also merges rustic charm with contemporary finishes

In an interview with Working Mother in 2016, the Elizabeth star said she wants to be a mother who takes great care of her children, but also has a career.

'It's very important to me to be able to enjoy taking them to school or making their lunches, or cooking dinner at home for my family,' Cate told the publication.

'I also like being able to be the kind of mother who is not only there to take care of them and love them dearly, but also one who has a career.

'I think it's important to set an example and show how the two can work together quite well,' she continued.