A third trailer for the much-anticipated new series -- Star Trek: Picard -- dropped on Saturday.

Set 20 years after Jean-Luc Picard's last appearance in Star Trek: Nemesis (2002), Patrick Stewart is back in his iconic role as the retired admiral and former captain of the USS Stargazer, USS Enterprise-D and USS Enterprise-E.

This go around he finds himself deeply affected by the destruction of the planet Romulus, as well as the death of Data in Nemesis.

Teaser: A third trailer for the new spin-off series -- Star Trek: Picard -- dropped on Saturday

Straight off the top in the new teaser, Picard (Patrick Stewart) can be heard saying 'I was haunted by my past, but now I have a mission,' over video showing him looking distressed that quickly transitions to images of him rooming some bustling streets.

'I will do what needs to be done,' he adds.

Former Borg drone Annika Hansen/Seven Of Nine (Jeri Ryan) then appears and asks Picard who he's looking for.

'Someone who has no one else to help her.' he responds, as flashes of Dahj (Isa Briones), in the heat of battle, appear.

Setting the tone: Set 20 years after Jean-Luc Picard's last appearance in Star Trek: Nemesis (2002), Patrick Stewart is back in his iconic role

Familiar faces: There are a number of castmembers who are Star Trek franchise alums, including Brent Spiner as Data

The plot: This go around Picard finds himself deeply affected by the destruction of the planet Romulus, as well as the death of Data in Nemesis

After some quick clips of a smiling Picard and Seven Of Nine on a rampage firing a couple of phaser guns, William Riker (Jonathan Frakes) asks Picard what he's 'gotten himself into.

Relaxed and confident, Picard responds with a big smile and laugh.

Along with Stewart, Ryan, Briones and Frakes, the series also stars Michelle Hurd, Santiago Cabrera, Alison Pill, Harry Treadaway, Marina Sirtis, Brent Spiner, Jonathan Del Arco.

Back to the future: Former Borg drone Annika Hansen/Seven Of Nine (Jeri Ryan) also returns

Action packed: Dahj (Isa Briones) is a young woman who comes to Picard for help

Adrenaline: The 30-second trailer also has some high-octane action sequences

The first season of the upcoming spin-off will include 10 all-new episodes.

In a move that oozes confidence, CBS has already renewed the show for a second season.

Star Trek: Picard premieres January 23, 2020 on CBS All Access.

Confiding: William Riker (Jonathan Frakes) asks Picard what he's 'gotten himself into

All-new: The first season of the upcoming spin-off series will include 10 episodes

Green lit: CBS has already renewed the show for a second season