She became an Instagram sensation after starring on this year's season of Married At First Sight.

And Ines Basic revealed her toned tummy and trim pins in her latest photo shared to Instagram on Monday.

Posing for a mirror selfie in her immaculate bedroom, the 29-year-old looked sensational in a leather look black midriff and faded denim mini skirt.

Abs-olutely fabulous! Married At First Sight's Ines Basic, 29, showed off her toned tummy in a leather look midriff and mini skirt, for a candid mirror selfie shared to Instagram on Monday

Ines raised one lithe arm above her head, and captured the perfect shot on her iPhone with her right hand.

Her brunette locks were secured into a sleek ponytail, and her makeup included a flawless base, defined brows and a natural lip.

Tagging a fashion brand in the caption, Ines also drew attention to her neat bed in the background.

'Also wanted to show everyone that I do know how to make a bed,' the influencer penned online.

Immaculate: Tagging a fashion brand in the caption, the brunette also drew attention to her tidy bed in the background: 'Also wanted to show everyone that I do know how to make a bed'

A picture of content: Ines recently enjoyed the benefits of a magnesium salt pool at a bathhouse in Brisbane

Ines recently enjoyed the benefits of a magnesium salt pool at a bathhouse in Brisbane.

Taking to Instagram Stories two weeks ago, Ines posed in a tan bikini with a friend, and detailed the benefits of her trip to the spa.

'From the steam room to the magnesium pool, best way to detoxify. I am so in my element,' she captioned a short clip of herself walking around the bathhouse.

'In full relaxation mode': Taking to Instagram Stories two weeks ago, Ines posed in a tan bikini with a friend, and detailed the benefits of her trip to the spa

'Best way to detoxify': The reality star-turned-influencer spoke about the benefits of using a magnesium salt pool in her Instagram Stories

Ines is not the only one to promote the benefits of using a magnesium salt pool.

This month, Rebecca Judd told viewers of her renovation series, The Style School, that she had a magnesium salt pool installed into her new $7.3 million mansion.

The 36-year-old said that a magnesium salt pool is 'better for your hair and skin and leaves you [feeling] refreshed'.

A magnesium salt pool is also said to help alleviate aches and pains, thanks to its blend of magnesium chloride and potassium chloride.