Chris Soules' life has seen plenty of curveballs since his run on season 19 of The Bachelor in 2015.

The farmer was involved in a 2017 car accident that left a war veteran dead, for which he was sentenced to two years probation.

He recently opened up about the incident, saying he felt he had 'nothing left to live for.'

Looking back: Chris Soules recently opened up about his involvement in a fatal 2017 car crash, saying he felt he had 'nothing left to live for'

The 38-year-old said during the Almost Famous podcast: 'There was a period after the accident that I didn’t want to get out of bed.

'There was no hope left in life for me. I was severely depressed and scared. There was nothing left to live for.'

He added: 'But you take it one day at a time. Luckily, I have a family that is super supportive and friends that gave everything they could to keep my head in a relatively good space.

'I’m not going to lie, there were moments I didn’t think it was worth waking up. The worst things you could possibly think, I’ve thought.'

Leaving the scene: Soules was arrested on April 25, 2017 after he left the scene of a fatal car accident in Aurora, Iowa

Fatal accident: He rear-ended a tractor, which was driven by 66-year-old war veteran Kenneth Mosher

Nothing to live for: The 38-year-old said during the Almost Famous podcast: 'There was a period after the accident that I didn’t want to get out of bed. There was no hope left in life for me. I was severely depressed and scared. There was nothing left to live for'

Soules was arrested on April 25, 2017 after he left the scene of a fatal car accident in Aurora, Iowa.

He rear-ended a tractor, which was driven by 66-year-old war veteran Kenneth Mosher.

The reality TV star was recently sentenced to two years probation after pleading guilty to leaving the scene, as he's agreed to pay Mosher's family $2.5million.

Soules also said: 'It’s been a tragedy. A tragedy that two families were caught up in. An unavoidable situation that words can’t really describe how challenging it has been for both my family and the other people involved.

'The lows have been really low. We’ve stuck together as a family and both families are having an opportunity to heal as much as humanly possible from something that you really can’t 100 percent heal from.'