Former Thomas Cook staff revealed today how they are struggling to claim benefits three months after the holiday firm went bust.

The 178-year-old package holiday giant went bust in September after rescue talks fell apart, leaving some 600,000 holidaymakers stranded abroad.

Some 11,000 people lost their jobs following the collapse and had hoped they would be able to apply for Jobseeker's Allowance (JSA) while looking for work.

Betty Knight, who worked as Thomas Cook cabin crew for 12 years, said her application for JSA was repeatedly denied, although she has now received five weeks of benefits

But former colleagues have told BBC News that they have still received no welfare benefits 11 weeks later - and accused their job centres of giving poor advice.

The problems are said to stem from confusion over whether staff should get JSA or Universal Credit (UC) while the company's administration process continued.

Betty Knight, who worked as cabin crew for 12 years, said her application for JSA was repeatedly denied, although she has now received five weeks of benefits.

She told the BBC: 'I've worked hard. I've done everything expected of me to contribute to our society, but when I needed the Department for Work and Pensions, I haven't been able to access that. It left me reeling.'

Ian Begg, a cabin manager for 14 years, said he was at first told to claim for UC which would take five weeks, and he attended weekly job centre appointments.

Ian Begg, a cabin manager for 14 years, said he was at first told to claim for UC which would take five weeks, and he attended weekly job centre appointments - but his claim was cancelled

But his claim was cancelled one day before the first payment was due, because the company's liquidators had given him a one-off payment.

** Are you an ex-Thomas Cook employee who has had problems? Please email: mark.duell@mailonline.co.uk or tips@dailymail.com, or call 020 3615 1838 **

Mr Begg, who was then told he should have applied for JSA, said: 'When we lost Thomas Cook we were just left to go out to pasture.

'My treatment by the job centre has felt like I've been thrown out again. They made me feel not worthy of benefits.'

A Department for Work and Pensions spokesman said: 'We are sorry if people have experienced delayed payments and urge them to stay in contact with their job centre so we can urgently fix their claims.

A woman walks past the branch of Thomas Cook in London after its collapse in September

'We know that losing a job is a distressing time for people. When Thomas Cook collapsed we were ready on day one to help the 11,000 people who lost their jobs.

'Our dedicated staff have helped thousands of those affected, including through home visits to those unable to reach the job centre and by fast-tracking applications so people are supported to find new work or training as soon as possible.'

Thomas Cook's failure left 600,000 holidaymakers stranded abroad, including 150,000 British people who the Government had to repatriate at taxpayers' expense.

Over the past two years, Thomas Cook had three different finance chiefs as it failed to drive profitability and reduce the company's significant debt burden.

In May, the firm reported a £1.5billion half-year loss and issued its third profit warning in a year in a set of accounts.

** Are you an ex-Thomas Cook employee who has had problems? Please email: mark.duell@mailonline.co.uk or tips@dailymail.com, or call 020 3615 1838 **