He has earned rave reviews for his comeback performance in Netflix's uproarious Dolemite Is My Name.

But Eddie Murphy has a major regret about turning down a film in the late 1980s.

The 58-year-old actor and comedian revealed Friday on The Tonight Show With Jimmy Fallon he passed on playing the lead role in the 1988 classic Who Framed Roger Rabbit.

Ouch: Eddie Murphy, 58, revealed Friday on The Tonight Show With Jimmy Fallon that the biggest film he ever turned down was the animated hit Who Framed Roger Rabbit (1998)

'The only movie I ever turned down that became a big hit was Who Framed Roger Rabbit,' he revealed to a rapt Jimmy. 'I was going to be the Bob Hoskins dude.'

But the film's revolutionary mixture of live-action actors with cartoon characters scared him away from the project.

'I was like, "Animation and people? That sounds like bulls*** to me!"

'Now every time I see it I feel like an idiot,' he admitted.

Skeptical: 'I was like, "Animation and people? That sounds like bulls*** to me!"' he joked

Kicking himself: 'Now every time I see it I feel like an idiot,' he admitted. The late Bob Hoskins made a name for himself in the US thanks to the lead role; 1988 publicity still for Who Framed Roger Rabbit

The film was directed by Back To The Future and Forrest Gump auteur Robert Zemeckis and eventually starred the late Bob Hoskins as the grouchy private detective Eddie Valiant.

Harrison Ford was the first choice for the film, though his price was reportedly too high, and Bill Murray missed out on the role because producers weren't able to get in touch with him in time because of his lack of an agent or manager.

The movie, budgeted just over $50 million, was the most expensive animated film at the time, but it was a hit at the box office and grossed nearly $330 million.

Who Framed Roger Rabbit took home four Academy Awards that year, and it currently holds a 97 percent fresh rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

Rubbing it in: The movie was the most expensive animated film at the time, but went on to gross $330M. Harrison Ford and Bill Murray were offered the role before Eddie turned it down

Poor choice: He also revealed to Extra in 2003 that he was set to play Chris Tucker's role in Rush Hour opposite Jackie Chan, but he turned it down to star in the reviled Holy Man (1998); Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan in Rush Hour (1998)

Iconic: Eddie's friend Dan Aykroyd originally wrote a major part in Ghostbusters (1984) with Eddie in mind

Eddie previously told the story about passing on it back in 2003 in an interview with Extra.

He also revealed at the time that he was set to play Chris Tucker's role in Rush Hour opposite Jackie Chan, but he turned it down to star in the critically reviled Holy Man (1998).

Though turning down Who Framed Roger Rabbit was his biggest mistake, Eddie also lost out on other major films due to circumstances outside his control.

His friend and fellow Saturday Night Live alumnus Dan Aykroyd wanted him to appear in Ghostbusters (1984), but he was occupied with his film debut, 48 Hrs.

The smaller role that eventually went to Ernie Hudson was originally much larger when Aykroyd still had Eddie in mind.

Blocked: But the SNL alumnus was busy filming his feature debut 48 Hrs. opposite Nick Nolte, so he couldn't do the movie

Shrunk down: A much smaller version of the same part eventually went to Ernie Hudson

Eddie currently stars as real-life actor and comedian Rudy Ray Moore in the Netflix original film Dolemite Is My Name.

After years of muddling about as an MC and a stand-up, Moore develops the foul-mouthed and braggadocios personality Dolemite and rockets to fame on the Chitlin' Circuit while performing to majority black audiences.

After making a series of high-selling comedy records, Moore graduated to films with the ultra low-budget film Dolemite, now considered a Blaxploitation classic.

Eddie has received widespread praise for his portrayal, with many critics calling it his best work in decades.

Wesley Snipes' hilarious supporting turn has also received nearly universal applause.

Eddie is set to make his long-awaited return to SNL as host on Saturday, with Lizzo as the musical guest.