CHICHICASTENANGO, Guatemala (AP) -

With dances and fireworks, indigenous residents of a town in the Guatemalan highlands on Saturday held a festival celebrating their patron saint, Thomas the apostle.

Much of the activity in Chichicastenango, including a procession with a wooden statue of Thomas, centered on the centuries-old church in the town.

Founded by the Spanish, Chichicastenango is a center of the Quiché ethnic group. A Spanish priest found the Popol Vuh, a text describing Mayan culture and mythology, in the town and translated it into Spanish.

Chichicastenango is a popular destination at this time of year, with many foreign tourists flocking to the main square to witness the annual festival.

An indigenous spiritual guide holds an wooden statue of Saint Thomas, the patron saint of Chichicastenango, Guatemala, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. After eight uninterrupted days of celebration in honor of their patron Saint Thomas, fireworks accompany three bands that play simultaneously at the corners of one of the most emblematic markets in Guatemala. (AP Photo/Moises Castillo)

An indigenous spiritual guide dances during a celebration honoring Saint Thomas, the patron saint of Chichicastenango, Guatemala, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. After eight uninterrupted days of celebration in honor of their patron Saint Thomas, fireworks accompany three bands that play simultaneously at the corners of one of the most emblematic markets in Guatemala. (AP Photo/Moises Castillo)

Men carry statues of different religious icons during a procession in honor of Saint Thomas, the patron saint of Chichicastenango, Guatemala, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. The Mayan village of Chichicastenango, set in the western Highlands of Guatemala, culminates a week-long festival that began on Dec. 13, honoring the town's patron saint, Saint Tomas. (AP Photo/Moises Castillo)

Men carry statues of different religious icons during a procession in honor of Saint Thomas, the patron saint of Chichicastenango, Guatemala, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. Chichicastenango is a village in the Guatemalan highlands, known for its open-air craft market and indigenous Maya culture. (AP Photo/Moises Castillo)

People gather to honor Saint Thomas, the patron saint of Chichicastenango, Guatemala, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. After eight uninterrupted days of celebration in honor of their patron Saint Thomas, fireworks accompany three bands that play simultaneously at the corners of one of the most emblematic markets in Guatemala. (AP Photo/Moises Castillo)

A man launches a rocket during a celebration honoring Saint Thomas, the patron saint of Chichicastenango, Guatemala, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. After eight uninterrupted days of celebration in honor of their patron Saint Thomas, fireworks accompany three bands that play simultaneously at the corners of one of the most emblematic markets in Guatemala. (AP Photo/Moises Castillo)

Men extend a massive roll of firecrackers during a celebration honoring Saint Thomas, the patron saint of Chichicastenango, Guatemala, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019.The Feast of Saint Thomas draws international tourists with its colorful pageantry, but at its heart is a religious celebration melding Catholic and indigenous traditions that culminates on Dec. 21. (AP Photo/Moises Castillo)

Dancers perform "El torito," during a celebration honoring Saint Thomas, the patron saint of Chichicastenango, Guatemala, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. The Feast of Saint Thomas draws international tourists with its colorful pageantry, but at its heart is a religious celebration melding Catholic and indigenous traditions that culminates on Dec. 21. (AP Photo/Moises Castillo)

Dancers in original costume but wearing modern trainers perform "El torito," during a celebration honoring Saint Thomas, the patron saint of Chichicastenango, Guatemala, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. After eight uninterrupted days of celebration in honor of their patron Saint Thomas, fireworks accompany three bands that play simultaneously at the corners of one of the most emblematic markets in Guatemala. (AP Photo/Moises Castillo)

Locals launch fireworks from the steps of Saint Thomas church during celebration honoring the patron saint of Chichicastenango, Guatemala, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. The church is built atop a former sacred Maya site and incorporates the temple's 18 steps, each representing a month of the Mayan calendar. (AP Photo/Moises Castillo)

A seemingly intoxicated man sits on the steps of the Saint Thomas Catholic church during a celebration honoring the patron saint of Chichicastenango, Guatemala, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. The church is built atop a former sacred Maya site and incorporates the temple's 18 steps, each representing a month of the Mayan calendar. (AP Photo/Moises Castillo)

A man carries a homemade mortar outside Saint Thomas church during a celebration honoring the patron saint of Chichicastenango, Guatemala, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. After eight uninterrupted days of celebration in honor of the patron Saint Thomas in the Mayan town, fireworks accompany three bands that play simultaneously at the corners of the most emblematic market in Guatemala. (AP Photo/Moises Castillo)