Hollywood couple Keith Urban and Nicole Kidman, both 52, have been reunited in time for Christmas.

Australian actress Nicole jetted into Sydney on Sunday to spend the festive season in her native country with her husband and their two daughters.

Nicole looked glamorous in a floral blouse, jeans and a pair of beige flats as she strolled through the terminal.

Together at last: Nicole Kidman looked truly glamorous on Sunday when she was reunited at Sydney airport with husband Keith Urban ahead of spending Christmas Down Under

Keith flew back to Sydney on Tuesday with the couples' two daughters: Sunday Rose, 11, and Faith Margaret, 8.

It's believed the Australian actress flew home separately due to her ongoing film commitments, including for her new flick, Bombshell.

After flying first class with Qantas, her husband was there to greet her at the gate.

Late arrival: It's believed the Australian actress flew home separately due to her ongoing film commitments, including for her new flick, Bombshell

Loved up as ever! Keith and Nicole have been married for 13 years

Looking every inch the movie star, Nicole looked radiant despite hopping off a long-haul flight from Los Angeles.

Toting a blue handbag in one arm, The Lion star commanded attention in her bright ensemble.

Nicole added some designer shades to her look, as did her husband Keith.

She's a lucky lady! After flying first class with Qantas, her country singer husband was there to greet her at the gate

What a gentleman! Keith held his wife's hand and pulled along her carry-on luggage for her

A true gentleman, Keith held his wife's hand and pulled along her carry-on luggage for her.

Nicole had been seated next to Australian actor Russell Crowe on the flight, but it's unclear whether Keith got a chance to chat to the star when they disembarked.

She placed her signature strawberry blonde locks up into a messy-yet-chic bun, and opted for a neutral makeup palette.

Ready to see her girls! Keith flew back to Sydney on Tuesday with the couples' two daughters: Sunday Rose, 11, and Faith Margaret, 8

Retro chic! Nicole looked glamorous in a floral blouse and jeans as she strolled through the terminal in a pair of beige flats

Once she reached a waiting car, Nicole suffered a rather awkward experience.

She appeared to reach for the handle of the back door, but was redirected to the front seat as Keith was driving.

Nicole let out a cheery chuckle with a grin, as the pair left together in the dark tinted-window vehicle.

Natural beauty: She placed her signature strawberry blonde locks up into a messy-yet-chic bun, and opted for a neutral makeup palette

Keith's early return for the holidays coincided with his intimate Sydney concert series, which began on Saturday night.

Having recently concluded his GRAFFITI U World Tour, the 2019 CMA Entertainer of the Year has returned to Sydney for his most-intimate shows of the year.

Keith officially opened the Sydney Coliseum Theatre, West HQ on Saturday in a sold out 'Keith Urban and Friends' concert, featuring performances by ARIA Award-winning artists Amy Shark and John Butler.

Will Nicole attend of of Keith's concerts? Keith's early return for the holidays coincided with his intimate Sydney concert series, which began on Saturday night

What's happening? Nicole reached an awaiting car, where she suffered a somewhat awkward experience

He will perform two more dates (December 22 and 23) at the small 2220-capacity theatre just before Christmas.

While Nicole has been based in America since the late 1980s, she and Keith regularly return to Australia to spend time with family for holidays.

According to the Sun Herald, the couple will spend Christmas with Nicole's beloved mother Janelle and her sister Antonia.

The family often spend time with Nicole's mother, Janelle Ann, over holiday periods at her home on Sydney's north shore, as well as their sprawling farm in the Southern Highlands.