He made a quick jaunt to Atlanta, Georgia on Friday night for a holiday concert, but was already back in New York City the next day in time to have lunch with his beloved wife.

Nick Jonas and Priyanka Chopra were spotted cutting chic figures on the way out of a lunch date in the Big Apple on Saturday, and they looked relaxed and stylish in the midst of pre-holiday bustle of the city.

Nick, 27, looked well put together in an all black ensemble, with a buttoned-up dress shirt, quilted jacket and black slacks, while his wife Priyanka, 37, contrasted him beautifully in a gorgeous cream-colored coat and ivory turtleneck sweater.

Winter finery: Nick Jonas and Priyanka Chopra were spotted cutting chic figures on the way out of a lunch date in the Big Apple on Saturday

Priyanka paired the sweater with dark blue jeans, which she tucked into suede tan boots.

She carried a small gift box that looked to be adorned with trim from a Christmas tree, and she wore rose-colored sunglasses.

She also had a black leather purse with her.

Her husband wore black boots, and carried a white plastic bag in his hand.

Pretty people: The couple looked relaxed and stylish in the midst of pre-holiday bustle

Black and cream: Nick looked well put together in an all black ensemble, while his wife Priyanka contrasted him beautifully in a cream-colored coat and ivory turtleneck sweater

The pair were seen leaving The Well in downtown Manhattan — a holistic wellness center that includes a restaurant.

The night prior, Joe and his brothers were seen onstage at the Jingle Ball in Atlanta, where they performed for the crowds as part of show that included other acts like Niall Horan.

At one point, Nick donned a Santa hat while he strummed on his guitar for the holiday-themed concert.

Holding the door for her man: The pair were seen leaving The Well in downtown Manhattan — a holistic wellness center that includes a restaurant

On their way: Chopra carried a small gift box that looked to be adorned with trim from a Christmas tree, and she wore rose-colored sunglasses

The night prior: Joe and his brothers were seen onstage at the Jingle Ball in Atlanta, where they performed for the crowds

At one point: Nick donned a Santa hat while he strummed on his guitar for the holiday concert

And earlier that day, the Jonas Brothers were seen heading out of their hotel in New York for the quick trip, with Priyanka not far behind on the way to her own appointment — a photo shoot.

Nick and company recently wrapped the US dates of their tour, Happiness Begins, and will resume performing in the new year in Europe beginning in late January.

Priyanka and Nick have been married since 2018, and are currently working with Amazon Studios to produce a new reality program that will center on Indian weddings.

Earlier that day: The Jonas Brothers were seen heading out of their hotel in New York for the quick trip down south...