Celebs Go Dating star Anna Williamson has given birth to her second child, a baby girl, with her husband Alex Di Pasquale.

Anna announced the news in an Instagram post on Saturday which showed her newborn daughter snuggled on her chest.

In the snap, dating agent Anna, 38, gave a half smile as she dozed while her little girl nuzzled her neck.

So exciting: Celebs Go Dating star Anna Williamson, 38, has given birth to her second child, a baby daughter, with her husband Alex Di Pasquale

Writing in a caption on the post, Ana wrote: 'She's here #birthannouncement #borntoday #babydaughter #allwentwell #veryproudhappymummyanddaddy #mumof2 @al3xdipasquale'.

Other celebrities were quick to offer their congratulations, with the likes of Dean Gaffney, Kerry Katona and Lizzie Cundy all offering heartfelt messages.

Former EastEnders star Dean Gaffney offered three love hearts, while Casey Batchelor wrote: 'Amazing congratulations lovely'.

And former star of the show Kerry Katona commented: 'Awwww a big congratulations my darling sending you so much love'.

Oh baby: Anna revealed in September that she was expecting a baby girl with Alex, who she married in 2015 (pictured last month)

Cute: Writing in a caption on the post, Ana wrote: 'She's here #birthannouncement #borntoday #babydaughter #allwentwell #veryproudhappymummyanddaddy #mumof2 @al3xdipasquale'

Get in on the act: Other celebrities were quick to offer their congratulations, with the likes of Dean Gaffney, Kerry Katona and Lizzie Cundy all offering heartfelt messages

Former WAG Lizzie Cundy added: 'WOW', while Una Healy wrote: 'Congratulations! xx'.

Anna revealed in September that she was expecting a baby girl with Alex, who she married in 2015.

In a post celebrating her son Enzo's third birthday, she wrote: 'On the day that my first baby turns 3 we decided we'd like to share the news of what "flavour" baby I'm carrying... (I'm too rubbish and disorganised to do one of those fancy gender reveal extravaganzas so The Gram it is).

Candid: The birth of Ana's second child comes after she discussed her severe peri and post-natal anxiety before and after the birth of two-year-old Vincenzo (pictured August)

'So... around Christmas all being well we'll be welcoming a BABY GIRL (or 'Baby Sister' as she's affectionately referred to) into our family.

'We are so chuffed...not least because I get share my old Sylvanian Families & Rainbow Bright with her *air punch - Enzo's not interested unless it has wheels or can be "smashed".'

The birth of Ana's second child comes after she discussed her severe peri and post-natal anxiety before and after the birth of two-year-old Vincenzo 'Enzo' George.

Speaking on Loose Women in August, Ana spoke of having 'panic attacks and absolutely debilitating fear' which become 'more intense because I was growing a little baby.'

Cute: Anna has been married to Alex since 2015 (pictured: The pair with their son Enzo)

She explained: 'Everyone [was] saying 'you must be happy you must be excited' but I couldn't say yes. I was happy somewhere, but the overwhelming feeling every day was fear.

'Catastrophising everything, 'will I get it wrong? Will I safely deliver this baby?' You count those weeks down.

However, the star said before her newborn daughter's birth that her mental health has been better this time around.

She said: 'I just feel a lot more happy and healthy, I went straight in and said midwives, NHS mental health professionals, help me.

'If you ask for it trust me it does come, you don't have to be a brave person and cope on your own,' she encouraged other pregnant women, before adding: 'I'm really enjoying this pregnancy.'

Anna, who rose to fame as a children's TV presenter before branching onto the This Morning couch as a regular expert, married Alex in October 2015.

She gave birth to Enzo on September 27, 2016, at Princess Alexandra Hospital NHS Trust in Harlow, Essex.