Gwyneth Paltrow is getting ready for Christmas.

And for the 47-year-old actress that means some quality time in her clean light sauna.

She posed nearly nude in the red glow of her outdoor heated room, in a snap she shared to Instagram on Saturday.

Heating up: Gwyneth Paltrow posed nearly nude in the red glow of her outdoor heated room, in a snap she shared to Instagram on Saturday

The Politician actress wrapped her arms around her torso protecting her bare chest.

Sitting on a bench, covered in a white towel, she wore only a pair of black underwear and a fitness watch.

Her signature blonde locks were wrapped up in a ponytail as she gazed out of the glass windows around the sauna.

In her caption she wrote: 'Getting my pre-Christmas schvitz on in a miraculous @clearlightsauna100.'

Staying healthy: Infared light saunas heat the body with light, but only heat 20 percent of the air. 'The infrared heat raise your core body temperature and stimulates your lymphatic system, immune system and your cardiovascular system,' the company's website wrote

Adding: '#healwithheat I love this thing.'

Clear Light Saunas use infared light to heat the room, resulting in a red glow on the Hollywood star.

Infared light saunas heat the body with light, but only heat 20 percent of the air.

'The infrared heat raise your core body temperature and stimulates your lymphatic system, immune system and your cardiovascular system,' the company's website wrote.

Happiness: Earlier this month, she didn't miss out on some self love and gave herself a vibrator in a cheery new commercial for her lifestyle brand's annual holiday ad

The company adds that to fully heat the body's front and back core there are heaters placed all around the room.

Known for wellness advice, this comes after the Goop CEO gave herself a vibrator in a cheery new commercial for her lifestyle brand's annual holiday ad, earlier this month.

'The holidays are here and because they never turn out the way you imagined, you must cherish the joy of getting ready,' a narrator said as Gwyneth appeared in a joyful mood.

She paraded around the room between wrapping gifts and indulging in a few holiday themed cocktails.

'Do everything in slow motion,' the narrator said as Gwyneth picked up a martini. 'Someones double fisting ... and dammit she's earned it.'