The Bachelor's Olena Khamula was every inch the blushing bride as she wed her fiancé Rodney Maroun on Saturday.

The Ukranian-born model, who found fame on Richie Strahan's series of The Bachelor in 2016, looked breathtaking in an elegant, strapless white gown which was embellished with hand-stitched beading.

In a series of Instagram snaps, it appeared no expense was spared by the former reality TV star, who opted for old-world glamour on her big day.

Floral centrepieces, Ukrainian dancers and a five-tier wedding cake: Inside Bachelor star Olena Khamula and Rodney Maroun's (pictured) very lavish wedding

Olena looked radiant as she posed in the princess-style dress, which featured an exceptionally long train and veil.

The brunette beauty completed her look with her dark hair pulled back off her face. Along with natural-toned makeup, including soft eye shadow and eyeliner.

She completed her bridal look with white studded Valentino heels and carried a bouquet of white roses and peonies.

Dazzling: The couple and their guests celebrated inside in an opulent Sydney ballroom, which was complete with chandeliers

Meanwhile, groom Rodney looked handsome in a three-piece suit , which included a grey waistcoat and a tie. He wore a rose on his lapel.

Also present at the festivities was Olena's former Bachelor co-star and best friend Steph Dixon, who played the role of bridesmaid.

The guests were entertained by a number of traditional Ukrainian dancers, which put on a stellar performance for the guests.

Entertaining: guests where treated to a performance by Ukrainian dancers

Double act: The newlyweds certainly didn't skimp on the entertainment

Olena opted for a dazzling Sydney ballroom for the venue, which featured a number of opulent chandeliers scattered throughout.

Over the bridal table there was a number of pastel roses, which decorated an archway.

While the table centrepieces were large vases of white and peach-hued roses, which looked spectacular against white table settings.

The couple opted for a traditional five-tier wedding cake.

Fun-filled: The bride was clearly in high spirits as she got her garter removed (L) and then partied with her bridesmaid and former Bachelor co-star Steph Dixon (R)

Jovial: Olena laughed during traditional parts of the ceremony

Party time! Olena and Steph were all smiles as they danced together

Olena and Rodney showed their playful side, as he took off her garter as she sat on an elegant circular-backed chair.

In a pictured shared to a wedding photography page, her Valentino wedding shoes could be seen, alongside her stunning diamond engagement ring and their white wedding invites.

On Thursday, Rodney took to Instagram to share a snap of himself with Olena on a boat, saying how excited he was to get married.

Fun and games! the crowd was jovial during the removal of the garter

'Two more sleeps till she can't turn back,' Rodney wrote, adding the hashtag: 'Till death do us party.'

In January, Olena announced their engagement, taking to Instagram to share a video of her stunning ring and writing: 'I said yes!'

She also shared a sweet snap of the pair online and wrote: 'We are engaged. Rodney you are truly the most incredible person I have ever met and I can't believe I will get to spend the rest of my life with my best friend.'

Newlyweds: The couple couldn't hide their delight at being husband and wife

She added: 'Thank you so much for making our day so special you have made me the happiest girl in the world. I love you Maroun.'

Makeup artist Olena is best known for appearing on The Bachelor with Richie Strahan in 2016, but the pair failed to find love.

In March 2017, Olena told Daily Mail Australia that Rodney was 'the one.'

Just married! Olena was a blushing bride and stunned in a plunging white dress

'I'm really happy I've found the one for me,' the model said at the time.

'It's going well, everything's been going great and we have a very good connection,' Olena said.

'It's been a crazy ride, before the show, during the show, after the show, all of that experience,' she added.

The pair are believed to have first started dating back in October 2016.