Jeffrey Beagley, 34, (pictured) faces several charges, including first-degree murder and attempted sex assault on a child

A Colorado man is accused of fatally poisoning a nine-year-old girl with chloroform and trying sexually assault the minor in a 'macabre' home with more than 1,100 images of child pornography, according to authorities.

Authorities say the young girl was found unresponsive inside her Grand Junction home on November 9 and was pronounced dead at the scene.

Jeffrey Beagley, 34, was arrested by the Grand Junction Police Department on December 13 'as a result of a police investigation that has taken place since the incident,' a press release said.

The victim's name and relationship to the suspect has not been released.

The investigation uncovered a thumb drive found inside the home containing child pornography, 9 News reports.

The thumb drive is alleged to have 1,616 images of child pornography and 75 videos of similar nature.

Some of the pictures and images allegedly involving the victim, and police believe others were collected from the internet by Beagley.

Grand Junction police officers (pictured) believe Beagley owned a thumb drive with several images and videos of child pornography

Two images allegedly pictured adult men having intercourse with children, and Beagley's face was photoshopped over one of the original male's face, the Grand Junction Sentinel reports.

Some of the images appeared to have been taken from a hidden camera inside the home's bathroom, KKCO reports.

Officers discovered a small metal shed in the back of the property on the 1000 Block of Hill Avenue.

Inside the shed was makeshift tent made of tarps with blankets and pillows on the ground. Investigators say the tent was built for 'privacy and seclusion,' New York Daily News said.

The blanket reportedly had drops of blood on the surface.

They also found space heaters, a computer monitor, a video camera, a laptop, a cell phone, masks, balloons, sex toys and lubricants.

Officers found en empty bottle of chloroform inside a metal shed behind the house after Beagley allegedly ordered the substance eight days before the victim died

Later that day, officers found an empty 100-millimeter bottle of chloroform and a rag inside the shed.

Authorities believe Beagley ordered the chloroform online on November 1 and it was delivered on November 8 - the day before the girl was killed.

When confronted with the chloroform's order receipt, Beagley initially told officers that he ordered the substance for hemp production.

Investigators described the suspect's house as 'macabre', as there were reportedly several posters and art inside that depicted death.

Investigators called the home 'macabre' and said there was several posters and art that depicted death

A 'Witch's Bible' was found inside the home and several headless dolls were seen around the premises.

A mask resembling the Easter bunny was decorated to show large blood wounds on the ears and blood on the nose.

As a result of his arrest, Beagley has been charged with first-degree murder, child abuse resulting in death and reckless manslaughter.

He has additionally been charged with attempted sex assault on a child by one in a position of trust, sexual exploitation of children and invasion of privacy for sexual gratification.

Beagley is being held at the Mesa County Detention Center without bond and is expected back in court on December 31.