He's been slowly moving on following the end of his 10 year relationship with Miley Cyrus.

But it seems to be becoming water under the bridge for Liam Hemsworth, 29, who has been spending more time with model Gabriella Brooks while living in Byron Bay, Australia since his divorce.

It appears as though the Hunger Games star is 'happy to be moving on' amid his fresh break up, an Us Weekly source reports.

Moving on; Liam Hemsworth has been trying to move on since his split from Miley Cyrus. He is pictured above at the Saint Lauren Mens Spring Summer 20 Show in June 2019

His new girl: Liam's new girlfriend is model Gabriella Brooks. She is pictured above showing off her toned curves while hanging out on the beach

'Liam feels comfortable with Gabriella,' the source continued.

Recently the actor introduced the 21-year-old model to his parents, Craig and Leonie Hemsworth, earlier this month.

'His family approves of her and really likes her, which is very important to him,' the same source added.

This budding romance comes just after he was spotted getting cozy with Dynasty star Maddison Brown while out in New York City back in October.

Man's best friend: Liam has been keeping a low profile and spending more time in Australia since his high profile split

Looking food: Gabriella turned heads during the Venice Film Festival in a stunning black dress back in August

The Last Song actor has been keeping a low profile since his split with the Party In the USA singer back in August.

Miley announced the couple's separation while in Italy with her sister sister Brandi Cyrus and Brody Jenner's ex Kaitlynn Carter.

During the trip, Miley and the influencer had a whirlwind relationship for about a month before it quickly fizzled out.

Since then, the Hannah Montana alum has found love with fellow singer Cody Simpson.

Back then: Miley Cyrus and Liam smile together at the Charles Finch and Chanel's 11th Annual Pre-Oscar Awards Dinner back in February

Liam filed for divorce from Miley just 11 days after it was announced that their marriage was over.

Since going their separate ways, there has been no shortage of shade coming from Miley's end. Recently, during an Instagram Live with her new boyfriend she said: 'There are good people out there that just happen to have d**ks. I've only ever met one, and he's on this live.'

'You don't have to be gay, there are good people with d**ks out there … you've just got to find them. You've got to find a d**k that's not a d**k, you know,' she continued.

'I always thought I had to be gay, because I thought all guys were evil, but it's not true.'