Tamara Ecclestone is set to spend Christmas apart from her sister Petra for the first time in a decade.

Tamara, whose £70 million West London home was recently targeted in an audacious jewellery heist, will spend the festive season with husband Jay Rutland and their daughter Sophia – known as Fifi – on a skiing trip in Gstaad in the Swiss Alps.

Tamara Ecclestone (right) and her sister Petra (left) at the Central Family Court for divorce hearings in 2018. The siblings are set to spend Christmas apart for the first time in a decade.

Ms Ecclestone hit the ski slopes in the luxury Swiss resort of Gstaad where the family are staying in her tycoon father Bernie's £23million chalet

Ms Ecclestone, 35, her husband Jay Rutland, 38, and their young daughter Sophia lifted their spirits with a spot of retail therapy by shopping in the Swiss resort of Gstaad

Festive snap: Tamara and her daughter on holiday. Ms Ecclestone was seen arriving in Gstaad, Switzerland, by helicopter on Tuesday afternoon

Petra is expected to be almost 6,000 miles away in Los Angeles with her fiance, Sam Palmer.

It is understood that the siblings, the daughters of billionaire Formula 1 mogul Bernie Ecclestone, did not see each other at half-term in October either – unusual given how emotionally close they have always been despite living on opposite sides of the Atlantic.

The news comes after their respective partners decided to call time on their art gallery partnership, less than a year after they started working together.

Mr Palmer became a director of Mr Rutland’s new Maddox gallery in Los Angeles after moving to America with Petra and her three children from her marriage to ex-husband James Stunt.

The F1 heiress's husband Mr Rutland was seen clutching a man bag on the tarmac after the family were flown by private jet to Bern and then onto at Gstaad Airport by helicopter

Huddling against the wind, Tamara lovingly crouches over her daughter Sophia as they make their way from the helicopter that flew them to Gstaad, an luxury resort in the Swiss Alps

Petra, 31, was also affiliated to the company but both withdrew last month.

Mr Palmer, 34, a former car salesman from Harlow, Essex, has now set up his own business which provides what he describes as ‘domestic staffing and lifestyle management’.

A source close to the Ecclestone sisters said: ‘It’s really sad for them.

‘Usually Christmas is a happy time for the girls and their children.

‘It would have been lovely for Tamara to have seen her sister this year, particularly after the robbery.

She really has had a rubbish time.’

The heist at the Ecclestones' house (above) took place on one of London's most exclusive streets, nicknamed Billionaire's Row, in Kensington, which has 24-hour security and checkpoints because of the rich residents and embassies on the road

Thieves stole £50million worth of jewellery from Ms Ecclestone, pictured with husband Jay, wearing an £80,000 Cartier bangle wedding gift and diamond earrings that were stolen from safes hidden in their bedroom

The 35-year-old was on holiday in Lapland when burglars breached security before gaining access to her 57-bedroom property in Kensington.

Jewellery worth an estimated £50million was stolen.

Hinting of his suspicions that it was an inside job, the sisters’ 89-year-old father Bernie said: ‘It’s certainly a concern that this will have been done by someone with an intimate knowledge of the house and security.’