Advertisement

A devastating 'megafire' tearing through the Blue Mountains has been filmed climbing up 200metre cliffs in the Grose Valley.

Blackheath local Kobe Byrant, 24, shared the terrifying footage to Facebook on Sunday through his account 'Blue Mountains Explore'.

The clip, taken just before a southerly wind hit at 5pm on Saturday, creates the illusion of a 'lava waterfall' as vegetation on the cliff catches alight.

The blaze is part of a 10,000 hectare fire burning at the Grose River, growing out of the 460,000ha Gospers Mountains megablaze.

Dozens of homes have been lost in the giant bushfire, which is six time the size of Singapore, while in the New South Wales Southern Highlands, the tiny town of Balmoral has been all but wiped out after it was ravaged by bushfires for a second time within three days.

In South Australia, at least 70 homes have been destroyed and at least one person killed in the 25,000ha Cudlee Creek blaze in the Adelaide Hills.

More 404 outbuildings and 227 vehicles have also been destroyed, according to Premier Steven Marshall.

As of 7pm Sunday night, the Gospers Mountain and Grose Valley fires were at watch and act level and another 11 across the state were at advice level, according to the NSW Rural Fire Service website.

More than 70 homes have been destroyed by bushfires in South Australia, including this one at Woodside near Adelaide

Catastrophic fire conditions gutted the NSW Southern Highlands town of Balmoral (pictured) for the second time within days

Horrific footage from the Blue Mountains shows a wall of fire down a mountain face as wild fires continue to ravage NSW

Balmoral in the NSW Southern Highlands was 'all but wiped out' by the Green Wattle Creek firestorm on Saturday

Mr Bryant told 9 News the valley had been totally destroyed by the blaze.

'The Grose Valley has just been decimated, Hat Hill was evacuated at 3:00am this morning, and Kanimbla Valley is now burning on two sides,' he said.

'It's not looking like it's going to abate...We're just hoping the bush can regenerate, and businesses can recover.'

Mr Bryant said he saw 'desperation, fear and anxiety' on people's faces in his community.

'We're used to sirens going off, but when it's on your doorstep and it's been going on for weeks you get tired. The mountains are like a ghost town at the moment.'

The dramatic footage shocked hundreds of people on social media.

'Have you ever seen anything like this? This is horrific,' one wrote. 'It's like a waterfall of fire,' another added.

The South Australian bushfires have not only claimed homes and lives but also livestock (pictured in Woodside near Adelaide)

Blackheath local Kobe Byrant, 24, filmed the 'lava waterfall' at the Blue Mountains. He said the fires had turned his community into a 'ghost town'

Firefighters are hoping a week of cooler conditions forecast will help them get on top of the fires (firefighters battle a blaze on a property near Gospers Mountain)

A child's bicycle was destroyed by the relentless firestorm in Balmoral south-west of Sydney, which has been wiped out

The number of homes lost in Balmoral (pictured) on Saturday is yet to be confirmed but is at least a dozen

Intense weather conditions propelled a mega-blaze covering 460,000 hectares from Gospers Mountain through to the Blue Mountains on Saturday night, which is thought to have destroyed at least 20 homes.

Meanwhile, the tiny town of Balmoral, south-west of Sydney, has been all but wiped out by the Green Wattle Creek firestorm that roared through the area for the second time within three days.

The tight-knit community was already reeling after being hit on Thursday when the flames returned on Saturday during catastrophic fire conditions as flames up to 40m high.

The number of homes lost in Balmoral on Saturday is yet to be confirmed but is at least a dozen.

One family who stayed behind to defend their property recalled as they helplessly watched their house and possessions burn to the ground.

'We got hit from the east and west at the same time- that's what made the the property indefensible at that point,' Balmoral resident Justin told Seven News.

'We had no chance against that.'

He told Nine News: 'There is nothing to come back to.'

Balmoral resident Justin and his wife inspect what's left of their home. 'There is nothing to come back to,' he told Nine News

Justin said the fire in Balmoral was so fierce that they were unable to save their home (pictured is the gutted remains)

Premier Gladys Berejiklian was devastated to hear Balmoral had been wiped out.

'Many residents have had that news in the last little while. Communities like Buxton and others have also been very hard hit,' she told reporters in nearby Picton on Sunday.

She said some residents would be allowed to return to their properties 'today or tomorrow' but others could have to wait longer.

Assessment teams are going in to determine when it will be safe for people to go home.

'If people have lost their properties they still want to go back to see what's left and if there is anything they can salvage,' Ms Berejiklian said.

'We know that's part of the recovery. We want people to have access to their land as soon as they can but it has to be safe.'

Balmoral, in the Wingecarribee Shire Council area, consists of about 150 houses with a population of some 400 people.

More than 20 homes are feared lost in the Blue Mountains after the blaze tore through on Saturday night, fuelled by intense weather conditions. Pictured: Tutti Fruitti Fruit Shop

Matthew Deeth - who's the mayor of the neighbouring Wollondilly Shire Council - says everyone knows everyone in the small village.

'They were all banding together until they got hit yesterday and they were just decimated,' he told AAP on Sunday.

'Most people were pulled out of their houses and if there was nobody defending houses they kind of just all lit up.'

Residents in the nearby town of Bargo, northeast of Balmoral counted themselves lucky on Sunday.

One house in Bargo's Ashby Close was lost to the Green Wattle Creek blaze, with fire damaging a number of other properties in the street.

Joe Cefai, 50, said the blaze just missed his home.

Mr Cefai, who evacuated with his two young children and a neighbour, lost a number of buildings next to his house.

'It could have been far worse,' he told AAP on Sunday.

'I could have easily kissed my home goodbye.

'To return to see how close it did get, words can't explain.'

The federal and state governments have extended emergency relief funding to the Wingecarribee and Wollondilly council areas.

Vineyards have also been lost in the bushfires in the Adelaide Hills. Pictured is smoke rising from the charred remains

The town of Woodside in the Adelaide Hills felt the brunt of bushfires. Pictured is what's left of a burnt car and boat

Devastating new photographs show Saturday night's carnage as a mega-blaze covering 460,000 hectares spread from Gospers Mountain through to the Blue Mountains, destroying an estimated 20 homes (the Tutti Fruitti shop in Gospers Mountain destroyed by fire)

RFS Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons said much of the fire ground, including Bilpin, still needed to be on high alert into Sunday as a southerly change blew through the region north-west of Sydney.

'Temperatures will drop but the humidity will rise. The vegetation, the landscape is so dry we are still seeing pretty significant fire behaviour and that is going to continue,' he said.

In a stark warning that the crisis could last months, he added: 'We will not get on top of these fires until we get some decent rain'.

With forecasts predicting close to a week of cooler conditions across NSW, Mr Fitzsimmons said his crews would do their best to get on top of the fires before tougher conditions return later in the week or next weekend.

'Our big focus is on trying to consolidate and establish containment lines across as many fire grounds as we can. We have significant fire spread south of the Bells Line of Road and through the valley system such as the Grose Valley in the Blue Mountains,' Mr Fitzsimmons told reporters.

'So we will be looking at what are the options, what are the fall-back lines and at what point do we start implementing very significant strategies to secure protection for an impending threat to the Blue Mountains, particularly the communities along the Great Western Highway.'

Firefighters worked together to pump a hose through a homeowner's backyard as the vicious fire approached on Saturday

This building was gutted but is still standing after the Cudlee Creek fire ravaged the town of Woodside on Saturday

Bushfires swept through the Adelaide Hills town of Lobethal as temperatures climbed above 40C. Pictured is the devastation

NSW Ambulance chief executive Dominic Morgan said a number of firefighters suffered heat exhaustion on Saturday while battling the 112 fires, which were having a 'big impact' on demand for emergency services.

As conditions worsened, Prime Minister Scott Morrison covertly arrived in back Sydney after holidaying in Hawaii with his family.

The Australian public largely criticised the PM for quietly leaving the country during the worst bushfires the country has seen.

During a press conference at the NSW Rural Fire Service headquarters in Sydney on Sunday, Mr Morrison said he made the decision to leave based on fatherly instinct and believed he'd left Australia in capable hands during his week-long absence.

'I get it that people would have been upset to know that I was holidaying with my family while their families were under great stress,' he said.

He then addressed critics who demanded he take climate change more seriously.

The prime minister said he'd always acknowledged the connection between climate change and bushfires but there were also 'many other issues' at play, including drought, fuel-load management, lightning strikes and arson.

'There is no argument ... about the links between broader issues of global climate change and weather events around the world.

'But I'm sure people equally would acknowledge that the direct connection to any single fire event - it's not a credible suggestion to make that link.'

Country Fire Service firefighters inspect the charred remains of fields in Charleston in the Adelaide Hills on Sunday

More than 70 homes were lost in the South Australian bushfire on Saturday. Pictured is what's left of Woodside property

Scott Morrison appeared frazzled as he was grilled about his secret Hawaii family holiday

Two total fire bans are in place on Sunday in the Northern Slopes and North Western regions, under 'very high' fire danger.

'Our big focus is on trying to consolidate and establish containment lines across as many fire grounds as we can. Mr Fitzsimmons told reporters.

'We have significant fire spread south of the Bells Line of Road and through the valley system such as the Grose Valley in the Blue Mountains.'

Meanwhile, at least 54 people were injured on Saturday at the Cudlee Creek fire in South Australia, 23 of those including firefighters and two police officers.

Two people were found dead and hundreds of homes are on the brink of destruction.

One resident died in the Adelaide Hills as a fire ripped through the area, and another in a car crash in Lameroo.

At least 23 firefighters have been taken to hospital with injuries after battling more than 100 fires across South Australia, some just 40 minutes from the centre of Adelaide.