For this breakout star, appearing in theatrical feature films still holds more appeal than acting in a streaming TV series.

John Boyega, the British actor who portrays Storm Trooper-turned-Resistance fighter Finn in the new Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker (as well as the previous two installments), recently stated his feelings on the possibility of whether he would appear in future projects for the dominating sci-fi/fantasy franchise.

'You ain’t going to Disney Plus me!' the 27-year-old said on Tuesday, in a chat with Variety, about Finn's future in Star Wars.

He has spoken: John Boyega, who portrays Finn in the new Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker, recently stated his feelings on the possibility of whether he would appear in future projects for the dominating sci-fi/fantasy franchise; seen in September

He was of course referring to the slate of Star Wars-centered content hitting Disney’s nascent streaming service, which has a whole rubric dedicated to the brand.

The first original series on the platform, the already-released Mandalorian, is a bona fide hit, but Boyega remains firm in his position.

'I ain’t getting no Disney Plus!' he told the outlet. 'I’m watching it, though, but I’ll stay in the feature films.'

As for whether he will indeed appear in any more feature Star Wars films, John remained coy.

'You ain’t going to Disney Plus me!' the actor said on Tuesday about Finn's future in Star Wars

Will he appear in any more feature Star Wars films: John remained coy about the possibility; seen earlier this week in London

'As long as Daisy [Ridley] and Oscar [Isaac] are down for it, then I’ll come back,' he continued.

The trio of actors form the core characters of the latest Star Wars trilogy, and while Boyega seems open to the idea of continuing their story, his costars seem less keen on the possibility.

'I don’t know,' Isaac said in response to the same question, continuing on to say that he considers The Rise Of Skywalker to be 'the closing of a chapter of my life.'

'As long as Daisy [Ridley] and Oscar [Isaac] are down for it, then I’ll come back,'the actor said; seen here in the new film with his costars, along with Chewbacca

'[I’m] happy and feeling fulfilled that the task is complete,' he added. 'So I can’t imagine what it would be that would make me want to redo this thing or revisit it.'

Ridley concurred. 'I just don’t know if anything could top this one, honestly.'

'I think it’s just a great story and a great close, and even though obviously the characters continue to exist, it would have to be so extraordinary [to return], and I don’t know if that’s possible.'

Apart from the theatrical Star Wars films, Disney is currently preparing at least two more series for the Disney+ streaming service: Ewan McGregor‘s spin-off Obi-Wan Kenobi series, as well as another for Diego Luna's Rogue One character Cassian Andor.