Chris Robison threw for two touchdowns and James Charles rushed for a pair of scores as Florida Atlantic recorded a 52-28 victory over SMU on Saturday in the Boca Raton Bowl in Florida.

Robison completed 27 of 37 passes for 305 yards while tossing scoring strikes to John Raine and Brandon Robinson as the Owls (11-3) posted their second win in three years in the Boca Raton Bowl. Florida Atlantic breezed to a 50-3 victory over Akron in the bowl game in 2017.

BJ Emmons rushed for 72 yards and a touchdown and linebacker Rashad Smith had an interception and also returned a fumble for a score to send the Owls to their seventh straight victory.

Defensive coordinator Glenn Spencer served as the interim coach for Florida Atlantic after Lane Kiffin announced earlier this month that he's returning to the Southeastern Conference and joining Ole Miss. Willie Taggart, who will serve as the Owls' next head coach, was in attendance for the game.

Xavier Jones ran for a pair of 1-yard touchdowns on direct snaps to boost his season rushing total to 23 scores for the Mustangs (10-3).

Shane Buechele threw for 303 yards and a touchdown and James Proche had nine catches for 86 yards and a score for SMU, which fell short in its bid for its first bowl victory since 2012.

The teams split four 1-yard touchdown runs before Charles capped a seven-play, 75-yard drive by bolting up the middle and shedding an attempted one-arm tackle for a 15-yard score. Charles' second touchdown of the game gave Florida Atlantic a 21-14 lead with one minute remaining in the second quarter.

Smith recorded his third interception of the season on the ensuing play from scrimmage and Robison found Robinson over the middle for a 13-yard touchdown on the next play.

Robison connected with Raine over the middle for an 18-yard score with 6:23 remaining in the third quarter and Smith picked up a fumble after a botched attempted reverse and raced 34 yards to the end zone to give the Owls a 42-14 lead.

Florida Atlantic played without wide receivers Deangelo Antoine and Tavaris Harrison as well as linebacker Keke Leroy due to academic suspensions.

--Field Level Media