Now excited to celebrate Christmas together with family they've always wanted

Weeks later discovered she was pregnant again and had son Damien, 18 weeks

Had daughter Elena, 1, four months prematurely and spent Christmas in hospital

She and husband Chris, 31, feared they'd never have children they'd dreamed of

Simone Austin, 35, from Hertfordshire, was devastated after nine miscarriages

A mother who suffered nine miscarriages has revealed her excitement to celebrate Christmas after welcoming two miracle babies in just 12 months.

Simone, 35, and Chris Austin, 31, from Borehamwood, Hertfordshire, feared they would never become parents together after Simone suffered nine miscarriages and an ectopic pregnancy.

They were amazed to welcome little Elena in October last year, but she was born at 24 weeks and was the size of a mobile phone, and the family spent Christmas 2018 in hospital, not knowing whether their daughter would survive.

But weeks later, Elena pulled through, and the couple discovered Simone was pregnant again with their son, Damien, now 18 weeks.

This Christmas, they have two little babies to complete their family alongside Simone's older son, Joey, six, and will be celebrating with their children's grandparents.

Simone, 35, and Chris Austin, 31, from Borehamwood, Hertfordshire, are looking forward to Christmas having welcomed two miracle babies within the last year (pictured left to right, Simone, Joey, 6, Damien, 18 weeks and Elena, 1)

The couple, who feared they would never have children together after having nine miscarriages and one ectopic pregnancy, have welcomed two miracle babies in just 12 months (pictured, Chris with Elena and newborn Damian)

The mother-of-three said: 'Last year we barely saw Elena on Christmas day. We tried to make things as magical as possible for Joey.

'The whole family was at our house and I just broke down and wanted to see my daughter.

'We saw her for an hour and then we went for Christmas dinner at Chris's mum's and we had a picture of her on the table, so she was kind of with us.'

'I am very emotional, I was crying wrapping presents. We didn't get the chance to do much last year.

Last Christmas the couple welcomed miracle daughter Elena but feared she would die after she was born four months prematurely (pictured in hospital fighting for her life)

Chris and Simone were heartbroken last Christmas when they spent the holiday in hospital after baby Elena was born four months prematurely

She added: 'This year is going to be completely different- we even have an extra one.

What is an ectopic pregnancy? An ectopic pregnancy is when a fertilised egg implants itself outside of the womb, usually in one of the fallopian tubes. The fallopian tubes are the tubes connecting the ovaries to the womb. If an egg gets stuck in them, it won't develop into a baby and your health may be at risk if the pregnancy continues. Unfortunately, it's not possible to save the pregnancy. It usually has to be removed using medicine or an operation. In the UK, around 1 in every 90 pregnancies is ectopic. This is around 11,000 pregnancies a year.

'I am very happy, I got everything money can't buy, I feel very lucky.'

Simone who has suffered nine miscarriages and an ectopic pregnancy, had given up trying for children after she was suffering from undiagnosed lupus and Elhers Danlos Syndrome.

Simone added: 'We had two miscarriages and one ectopic, which cost me my left tube so we gave up trying and we decided to get married.

'It was heart-breaking. All I ever dreamt of was becoming a mother again.

'Once everything was booked and paid for we found out we were pregnant and were over the moon.'

Simone went on: 'But the joy turned to terror when I went into labour four months early.

'She is a real fighter, she did not stop moving, she was a little wiggler.

'We camped out at her bedside, trying to split our time between Joey and Elena.

'Our wedding was booked for two weeks after she was born, and although we didn't feel much like celebrating, we wanted to make our family complete, so we went ahead with the wedding.

The couple were left heartbroken last Christmas when they spent the holiday in hospital with daughter Elena fighting for her life

Simone called her daughter Elena 'a real fighter' and said she 'didn't stop moving' the whole time she was in hospital

The couple ended up celebrating their wedding in hospital so that daughter Elena could be part of their big day (pictured, in hospital together)

Elena was given a 55 per cent chance of survival after she was born, but managed to pull through and was discharged in January

'We brought the celebration to the hospital though, to be with Elena on our special day.

'The nurses dressed her up at the hospital in a little pink dress - it was really hard not to cry and ruin my make-up.'

Elena was given just a 55 per cent chance of survival and she had to stay in hospital until mid January 2019.

In the meantime Simone started suspecting she might be pregnant again, but thought it would be another miscarriage.

Simone explained: 'I went out shopping with my friend, bought a pregnancy test in Poundland and did it in Debenhams toilet.

The couple were astonished when weeks after welcoming Elena, they discovered that Simone was pregnant for the second time

Proud parents Simone and Chris say they are overjoyed to be celebrating Christmas with the family they've always dreamed of

'I surprised Chris, put the test in a little box and wrote in the card "Oops we messed up".

'He thought I was winding him up. We were petrified, we weren't ready to go through that sort of thing again.

'But we went for a scan and there was a heartbeat so that was it.

'It doesn't get easier, you just know what's coming and you cope with it a little bit better.

Now the family are looking forward to their first Christmas together as a family of five (pictured left to right, Elena, 1, Joey, 6, and Damien, 18 weeks

Simone admitted it 'hasn't sunk in yet' that they have another baby, but that they are delighted to be spending Christmas at home together

'And then when you see a little heartbeat that's when it really hits.

'It went well. With Elena I didn't know whether I was giving birth to a baby I was going to keep or I was going to say goodbye too.

'Bringing him home felt very surreal, it hadn't sunk in that we were having another baby but I fell in love with him instantly.'