New Zealand will shake up their top order for the Boxing Day Test with Tom Blundell to open and Jeet Raval set to be dropped for the must-win match against Australia.

Blundell opened for the Black Caps in place of Raval in a tour match on Sunday, scoring 59 before being retired against a Victorian XI in Melbourne.

Having played just two Tests previously in 2017, Blundell made a hundred on debut against the West Indies but is a middle-order batsman and back-up wicketkeeper.

It therefore comes as a massive call from the Black Caps, given Blundell will be thrown into the deep end in a foreign position for their first Boxing Day Test in 32 years.

However it was clear a change had to be made.

Raval has averaged just 7.3 in his past nine Test innings and scored just one in each innings of their 296-run Test loss in Perth last week.

"It's just a mindset shift, being a little more patient outside off stump," Blundell said of the move to the top of the order.

"I'll probably try and be the same but it's just for the first 30 balls you have to be a little more patient outside off stump.

"If I can last them hopefully I can bat a little more positively."

Blundell's innings on Sunday came against an attack that included Black Caps left-armer Trent Boult.

With New Zealand batting first in the practice match at Scotch College, Boult turned out for the Victorian team in a bid to get through some overs.

Originally scheduled as a two-day match, the opening day was abandoned on Friday due to extreme heat - making Sunday's hit out an unlimited overs affair.

The Black Caps finished on 9-258, albeit with six of those wickets coming in the form of players being retired out.

Boult hasn't played since he injured his ribs and side in a Test against England last month, and will be a crucial weapon for New Zealand at the MCG.

He is, however, expected to be fit for the Test starting on Thursday and had Tom Latham caught at mid-off early in play on Sunday.

"He wasn't far away from playing in Perth," senior batsman Ross Taylor said.

"We were pretty confident he would be fine for here on Boxing Day. He's a veteran and seasoned campaigned.

"I'm sure he is looking forward to getting out there and getting the ball."

The Black Caps need victories in both Melbourne and Sydney to win a Test series in Australia for just the second time.