Celebrity facialist Melanie Grant has answered the most popular questions she's asked by her clients and online followers - including the perfect diet for glowing skin and the best budget products on the market.

The Sydney-based 'skin whisperer' is beloved by the likes of Victoria Beckham and Kim Kardashian, and regularly tends to the complexions of the rich and famous.

Posting on Instagram, Melanie revealed why she swears by cheap French pharmacy products - and how salmon keeps her skin glowing all year round.

Celebrity facialist Melanie Grant (pictured) has answered the most popular questions she's asked by her clients and online followers

The Sydney-based 'skin whisperer' is beloved by the likes of Victoria Beckham (pictured together) and Kim Kardashian, and regularly tends to the complexions of the rich and famous

What foods does Melanie stick to?

One of the most popular questions the facialist is asked is the foods she sticks to - and how she keeps her skin glowing.

'I eat lots of salmon, avocado, salad, nuts, seeds, salad, more salad, vegetables and fish,' Melanie said.

If you want great skin, Melanie recommends you fill up on plenty of 'good fats, salmon, oily fish, nuts, seeds, olive oil, dark leafy greens and bright vegetables'.

When it comes to what she steers clear of, the facialist said she'd never touch sugary drinks or certain types of alcohol - but she is a fan of semi-regular glasses of red wine, which is filled with antioxidants.

'I eat lots of salmon, avocado, salad, nuts, seeds, salad, more salad, vegetables and fish,' Melanie (pictured) said

What products should you buy if you have Champagne taste on a beer budget?

Skin products can be costly - but Melanie said there are plenty of budget options that do the job as well as the big brands.

'French pharmacy products offer great value but still feel super luxurious,' she said.

Melanie highlighted brands like Avene, Nuxe body oils and Bioderma - whose $21 Sensibio Micellar Water is her 'ride or die' beauty product.

If you want to buy cheap but effective beauty products, Melanie recommends a 'sunscreen, cleanser and tinted moisturiser - or preferably all three'.

Melanie recommends you opt for cheap French pharmacy products where possible, as they feel luxurious but also don't cost the earth (pictured: her cabinet)

What skincare products should you invest in?

If you want to invest in something, Melanie said you should make it a serum.

'These are the real workhorses in your skincare regime that are going to change the quality of your skin,' she said.

What is the best way to deal with blackheads?

Blackheads are a pesky reality for many of us, but rather than squeeze them, Melanie has a few pieces of advice.

'Try a BHA serum or something with salicylic acid at nighttime and use an exfoliant so something like a scrub three or four times a week,' she said.

'Don't squeeze them and try not to wear too much makeup,' she said.

Regular treatments - whether at home or with a facialist or dermatologist - will help, while a product like Biologique Recherche's Complexe Iribiol is Melanie's go-to for blackheads.

If you want to invest in something, Melanie (pictured) said you should make it a serum, as these are the 'real workhorses' of your regime

What is the best thing you can do for pigmentation from sun damage?

In Australia, many women suffer with pigmentation from sunbathing they did in their early years.

And while you can't turn back the clock, you can reduce the pigmentation and scarring.

What are Melanie's 'ride or die' products? * BEST EXFOLIATOR: P50 by Biologique Recherche ($146). * BEST HYALURONIC ACID: Cosmedix Surge Serum ($130). * BEST VITAMIN C SERUM: Skinceutials C E Ferulic Serum ($210). * BEST AFFORDABLE SPF 50: Avene tinted moisturiser ($32.95). * BEST FOUNDATION: Chanel Sublimage foundation ($180). * BEST RIDE OR DIE PRODUCT: Bioderma Sensibio Micellar Water ($21).

'Wear a broad spectrum SPF 50 every day and use a brightening serum at nighttime or a retinoid,' Melanie said.

'Treatment-wise, I'd opt for an IPL or a laser if your skin type allows it. Alternatively, you could try light therapy with gentle peels.'

How can you minimise the appearance of pores?

For Melanie, good pores start with clean pores.

'I think with pores it's really important to keep them clean to give the appearance of a finer texture,' she said.

'So BHA serums and cleansers that have salicylic acid to cut through the oil will help, while a retinol at night should also be your best friend.'

When it comes to retinols, Melanie said the stronger formulas aren't always better.

'I like an elegant formula with a slow release delivery system, so you can use it every night while it gently polishes the skin,' she said.

What is the best routine for someone with sensitive dry skin?

Sensitive skin is the most popular skin concern for many women, but rather than lathering up your face with products, Melanie said you should keep things 'super simple.

'Avoid products with alcohol and fragrance and don't use too many actives, acids or retinoids,' she said.

'Instead, keep your skin really hydrated and use a great oil at night and a great moisturiser during the day.'

'I dry body brush for five minutes every day, and I love having a daily bath with rose oil,' Melanie (pictured) said when asked about her body care regime

What are your top skincare tips for men?

It's not just women who need to look after their skin - Melanie said it's just as important for men too.

'Cleansing daily in the evening is key, as is wearing a good quality SPF and moisturiser,' she said.

The facialist also recommends men use some sort of an exfoliant in the shower three times a week.

How should you prepare at home for a big event?

While we'd all love to have the professionals look after us before a big event, in reality budgets don't always allow for this.

So if you want to get ready in the best way for a big event at home, Melanie said you need to allow yourself plenty of time.

'A really good cleanse, followed by some exfoliator and a nice mask - whether a cream or a sheet - is a good place to start,' she said.

'It's all about nourishment to give the skin that juicy glow.'

What is your daily body care regime?

Good skin isn't just about the skin on your face, as you need to look after your body too.

'I dry body brush for five minutes every day, and I love having a daily bath with rose oil,' Melanie said.

She said she'll always use a body cream after coming out of the bath or shower - and she swears by Augustinus Bader's body cream.

'I love the St Tropez Express One Hour Tan,' she said.

'I find it's the best for my skin tone. But I only leave it on for an hour or two to get the perfect golden glow.'

What is your top tip for oily skin?

If you're someone who struggles with oily skin, you needn't shun all products that hydrate and moisturise.

'Don't be scared of hydration,' Melanie said.

'There's a difference between being oil dry and water dry so make sure you moisturise with a really good water-based serum.'