Andy Cohen went in for a little off the top — and the back.

The 51-year-old Watch What Happens Live host shared a short video of a recent appointment with his hairstylist.

The Bravo boss shows off his chiseled physique in the shirtless video while getting a trim.

A little off the back: Andy Cohen, 51, shared a video to his Instagram Stories on Saturday of his longtime hairstylist shaving his back

Andy sported his well-kept beard and wore black pants, while Tonee had on a cable-knit sweater.

The hairstylist's electric razor buzzed in the background as he ran it over Andy hirsute back.

'This is how you know you've been going to your guy for a long time — Tony shaves my back for me,' he said, adding '25 years!'

Old pals: Andy sported his well-kept beard and wore black pants, while Tonee had on a cable-knit sweater. Hairstylist Tonee Ferringo's electric razor buzzed in the background as he ran it over his hirsute back

Sticking with him: 'This is how you know you've been going to your guy for a long time — Tony shaves my back for me,' he said, adding '25 years!'

Andy recently revealed that he's considering trying to have a second child.

He sat down for a chat with Flipping Out's Jeff Lewis, who asked if there was another 'baby cooking right now.

Andy revealed that he still has 'at least one' embryo left, and that he's 'thinking about' thawing it out.

Back in February, the single father welcome Benjamin Allen, now 10 months, via a surrogate.

He previously told Extra in June that 'I might consider having another [child] — I’m thinking about it.'

Growing family? Andy recently chatted with Flipping Out's Jeff Lewis, when he revealed that he still has 'at least one' embryo left, and that he's 'thinking about' thawing it out

Baby joy: The Bravo boss welcomed 10-month-old Benjamin Allen in February via surrogate

Last week, Andy revealed on Instagram that Benjamin said 'dadda' for the first time.

'My son said dadda today for the first time. He said it about me,' he revealed to guest Seth Meyers on Watch What Happens Live.

He also got great news on the TV front when Bravo renewed the 10-year-old series through 2021.

Deadline reported that the show has had consistently 'strong' ratings, topping The Daily Show, Conan, the canceled Busy Tonight, and others.