Kate Ferdinand has candidly revealed that she and her husband Rio 'saved each other,' when they met.

The former reality star, 27, said she was struggling with anxiety and panic attacks when she met the former footballer, 41, who had become a widower with three children after his wife Rebecca Ellison passed away from breast cancer in 2015.

After tying the knot in September, Kate also hinted that 'one day' she and Rio will have a baby with their own, and his children have already decided whether they would like a boy or a girl.

Candid: Kate Ferdinand has candidly revealed that she and her husband Rio 'saved each other,' after they met when she was struggling with anxiety and he had become a widower

Kate told The Sun that when she met a Rio she was lost at a point in her life, and despite her family's support she was still struggling with her mental health.

Rio was grief-stricken following his wife's death, while still raising his sons Lorenz, 13, Tate, 11, and daughter Tia, eight.

But Kate said that going through such a difficult time has brought them even closer together, adding: 'We really did save each other.

'We have all been through bad times and yet we are all together. Going through so much brings you even closer.'

Truth: The former reality TV star said that going through such a difficult time has 'brought them closer,' and hinted that 'one day' they will start a family of their own

Kate also said that she and Rio hope to start a family of their own, saying: 'The boys would like a boy and Tia would like a girl. One day we will.'

The star revealed it was the blessing of Rio's late mum Janice St Fort - who passed away two years ago - that meant the most when they finally tied the knot, after she said Kate was sent to care for Rio and his children.

Kate also admitted that she struggled with the prospect of being a stepmum to Rio's children at first, and continued to battle with anxiety as online trolls labelled her a 'gold digger,' but eventually learned to adapt.

Supportive: Kate also said that she originally struggled with being a stepmum to Rio's children Lorenz, 13, Tate, 11, and daughter Tia, eight, but learned to adapt

She said that Rio and his children still honour his mum and late wife Rebecca's memory with a special room in their house dedicated to them.

Kate also revealed that she and Rio will celebrate their third Christmas together this year, and for the first time their annual festive card will say 'from the Ferdinands.'

The star also said that one of the ways she, Rio and children stay positive is through weekly exercise sessions.

Close: Rio and Kate tied the knot in Turkey in September after around two years together, and she said his children played a prominent role in the ceremony

Rio and Kate tied the knot in a lavish ceremony in Turkey earlier this year after two years of dating, and his children played a prominent role in the big day, with Tia as a maid of honour, and Lorenz and Tate walking her down the aisle.

The star has previously spoken about her anxiety in an interview with MailOnline in October.

She said: 'In all honesty, I am not as confident as I probably appear. I have days like every girl when I feel rubbish about myself and literally eat everything in my treat cupboard.

'But then there are days when I feel really good and that’s probably when you will see an outfit post on Instagram.'