Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has a major advantage over many Premier League rivals as he tries to rebuild Manchester United by having the final authority over transfers.

It is no coincidence that three major managerial casualties this season Mauricio Pochettino, Unai Emery and Marco Silva never appeared to be in control of their club's transfer policy.

But Solskjaer, who has targeted Europe's hottest young striker Erling Haaland from Salzburg insists that at United - who have no director of football - he has the decisive opinion.

Erling Haaland is the subject of interest from a number of European clubs including Man Utd

'I will always have the final say,' says Solskjaer, whose side travel to Watford today unbeaten in six matches. 'I am not going to let any players in the door without me saying yes definitely.

'It has to be that way. it is a good process and of course if I don't like a player I don't want him there.'

Haaland, 19, started his career under Solskjaer at Molde and has gone on to score more than a goal a game for Salzburg. United are among a number of clubs chasing him but United hope the Norwegian connection - Solksjaer is close to the player's family and friends - will give them the edge.

Any move is likely to be done in the summer rather than January but Solskjaer doesn't see any specific problems because Haaland's infamous agent is Mino Raiola who also represents Paul Pogba.

United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer admits he is a fan of Red Bull Salzburg striker Haaland

'Players can choose their own representatives,' said the United manager. 'It is so important that every player has complete 100 per cent trust in whoever represents them because they work for the player. The player is in charge.

'The players are in charge of who their agents are, I am in charge of the players so I speak to the players.'

Pogba, 26, has resumed training in a bid to play again for the first time since September because of an ankle injury.

Despite Pogba's glamorous image and suspicion he is trying to force a move from Old Trafford, Solskjaer says the player has been left deflated by being unable to play.

'The worst thing for a player is when he's injured and not playing. Everyone has to realise that,' insisted the manager. 'Paul wants to play football. He has been running with the fitness coach, looking over to us training. And there is nothing more disheartening. It is a proper mental test.

Paul Pogba saga has constantly been in the background during Solskjaer's first year

'He is a different person when he can play football compared to when he can't. I think we all are. Sometimes you feel like you don't contribute to your team if you are not able to play. So I am sure you will see him smile again when he's back on the pitch.'

The Pogba saga has constantly been in the background during Solskjaer's first year at the club though the manager has categorically stated he will not be leaving United next month.

The pair worked together during Pogba's first spell at United as a teenager in the academy where Solskjaer coached, and the manager feels it has helped them deal with the current predicament.

'I have a good relationship with Paul. I had him when he was young and it's an open and honest relationship. I think when you can see what he can do on the pitch, you want to make sure you build on that. For me he is one of the best players in the world.'