All Josh O’Connor wants for Christmas is… for his friends to stop teasing him about his big ears.

Josh, 29, who plays a young Prince Charles in series three and four of Netflix’s The Crown, can sympathise with the real Royal whose big ears were mocked during his days at Gordonstoun.

But when he’s finished filming The Crown, Josh, below in the role, will be relieved.

‘I am glad to be coming to the end of my big ears jokes among my friends,’ he says. Don’t moan, Josh – those whoppers made you a star!

Josh, 29, who plays a young Prince Charles in series three and four of Netflix’s The Crown, can sympathise with the real Royal whose big ears were mocked during his days at Gordonstoun

‘I am glad to be coming to the end of my big ears jokes among my friends,’ he says

Meanwhile, I hear The Crown’s set designers have been interviewing Princess Diana’s old chums to help recreate the chintzy flat in Earls Court where she lived from 1979 until her wedding in 1981.

Diana moved into Coleherne Court aged 18 with flatmates Carolyn Pride and Virginia Pitman after taking a job as a nursery assistant.

The property features in series four, with Emma Corrin playing Diana.

A source says researchers have interviewed visitors to the pad and a former tenant.

With a £10 million per episode budget, I expect orders to Laura Ashley will be flowing!

Most of us plump for an apron and sensible shoes while cooking the Christmas turkey, but that simply won’t do for society beauty Lady Lola Crichton-Stuart.

The 20-year-old daughter of the Marquess of Bute donned a skimpy ‘Mrs Claus’ outfit as she cooked an early festive dinner for chums.

With her long blonde hair and cigarette, Lola was a dead ringer for Patsy from Absolutely Fabulous as she took the pigs in blankets out of the oven.

I just hope she didn’t burn her knees!

The 20-year-old daughter of the Marquess of Bute donned a skimpy ‘Mrs Claus’ outfit as she cooked an early festive dinner for chums

CRUSH OF THE WEEK... Christy Tholstrup

Blonde, waifish and prone to airs and graces, Christy Tholstrup is my crush this week for having all the makings of an It Girl with the heritage to match.

She is the daughter of high society Scandinavian model Paola Schlansen and Danish restaurateur Mogens Tholstrup. He’s the former owner of South Kensington hangout Daphne’s and previously dated Tara Palmer-Tomkinson and Lady Victoria Hervey.

Flitting between homes in Chelsea and Marbella, Christy, right, has her sights set on being a Hollywood actress, and plans to move to LA after finishing her lessons with a voice coach.

But what really makes me adore Christy is that fact that the 26-year-old once left a party with an Italian waiter on a motorbike while wearing nothing but a duvet!