Despite selling his Richmond mansion, below, to The Who star Pete Townshend in 1996, it seems that Ronnie Wood can’t stay away.

Townshend, 74, says The Rolling Stones rocker often turns up unannounced – even on Christmas Day.

Meanwhile, Ronnie’s ex Jo is also having trouble with visitors.

She has moved to a Northamptonshire farmhouse – but doesn’t have enough room to put her relatives up. ‘I need a castle,’ she wails.

Despite selling his Richmond mansion, below, to The Who star Pete Townshend in 1996, it seems that Ronnie Wood (pictured) can’t stay away

Townshend, 74, says The Rolling Stones rocker often turns up unannounced – even on Christmas Day

Downton’s new festive drama

If you found decorating your home and tree tiring this Christmas, spare a thought for Lady Carnarvon, who presided over a military affair to erect 79 trees at Highclere Castle.

As the house – the setting for Downton Abbey, of course – has 300 rooms, it was obvious that one tree wouldn’t suffice, even if the main one, pictured, is an impressive 24ft.

Lady Carnarvon revealed that it takes three days to put up the decorations around her Hampshire home.

The firs range in height from 12in to 24ft, and they are decorated with more than 8,500 red and gold baubles, while nearly 300 yards of garlands are looped together to wind around bannisters, marquees and along tables to transform the castle for Christmas.

Sounds exhausting. I bet the staff needed a stiff sherry after that…

If you found decorating your home and tree tiring this Christmas, spare a thought for Lady Carnarvon, who presided over a military affair to erect 79 trees at Highclere Castle

After starring in Love Actually aged 11, you’d think Olivia Olson would be fond of the film that made her famous.

But Olivia, below, who played junior school singing sensation Joanna in the 2003 movie, says she can’t stand to watch the classic.

‘Over the holidays, someone will turn on Love Actually. I will run into the other room, shouting, “Stop!” while everyone makes fun of me,’ she told me.

Perhaps not the most tactful comment to make while the US actress is trying to reboot her career…