Princess Beatrice and Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi

It was meant to be top secret, but my expert gatecrasher still got into the society bash of the winter: the engagement party of Princess Beatrice and her fiance Edo Mapelli Mozzi at celebrity hotspot The Chiltern Firehouse.

The high – and low – lights of a wild night were…

STARS GALORE:

Among the 150 guests were James Blunt, Ellie Goulding, and Robbie Williams’ wife Ayda.

THUNDER STEALER:

Hollywood superstar Robert De Niro accidentally stole the limelight when he arrived for dinner.

SADLY MISSING:

Bea’s father Prince Andrew did the honourable thing and stayed away to save his daughter’s blushes.

A MATTER OF TASTE:

Twenty friends and family had a private dinner beforehand, but garlic was banned because Bea, 31, can’t stand the smell.

PARTY ANIMALS:

After the free bar ended around midnight, most of the guests went on their merry way.

But Edo, 36, kept the party going and caroused until 4am – until Bea guided him up to their suite.

Bea’s younger sister Eugenie and husband Jack Brooksbank were the last to head for bed at 5am.

Among the 150 guests were James Blunt, Ellie Goulding (left), and Robbie Williams’ wife Ayda. Bea’s mum, the Duchess of York (right), went home at a sensible time

Celebrities such as film star Robert De Niro (pictured above) were seen slipping out of the party at the lavish venue

Singer James Blunt was pictured in a black cab after attending the party. His wife Sofia Wesley smiled as they got into the cab

WHO NEEDS AN UBER?

Bea’s mum, the Duchess of York, went home at a sensible time, but around 20 of the happy couple’s pals stayed in the Firehouse’s hotel, where rooms cost about £600 a night.

At least it saved them staggering past the photographers camping outside.

WHAT A BARGAIN:

With a free bar, dinner at £100 a head and those £600-a-night rooms, my spies reckon the night could easily have cost £50,000.

Luckily, Firehouse owner Andre Balazs is a close friend of the Royals and perhaps gave them a sizeable discount.

MR OBNOXIOUS: Gino D’Acampo

Celebrity chef Gino D’Acampo has wrecked his family-friendly image by rubbishing Christmas.

‘It’s so commercial. Full of s***,’ he rants on his new show Three Unwise Men. ‘The way I live my life, it’s Christmas every f****** month. We don’t wait for December to have presents. We do that whenever we want. If I ask my kids what they want for Christmas, they go, “Dad, I thought Christmas was last month!” ’

So it’s rather a surprise to find Gino’s eponymous restaurants advertising that ‘we have Christmas all wrapped up’ by offering festive menus and parties...