Liverpool stars have given fans an insight into the dressing room scenes after they were crowned world champions for the first time after seeing off Flamengo in Doha.

The European champions were made to work hard for their victory, with neither side breaking the deadlock after 90 minutes. Roberto Firmino scored the decisive goal in extra time to ensure that Jurgen Klopp's side lifted the Club World Cup trophy.

And, despite the German insisting that his players would have no time to celebrate in the event of a win, footage from inside the dressing room has shown the star-studded team were delighted with their latest triumph.

The Liverpool players pose around the Club World Cup trophy after their win over Flamengo

Defender Andy Robertson shared an image on his Instagram of the players surrounding the gold trophy in the Doha dressing room, alongside club staff with medals around their necks.

Footage from back up goalkeeper Adrian also shows backroom staff entering with the trophy to jubilant ovations.

The famous song 'Championes, Championes, Ole Ole Ole' can be heard ringing out in the changing rooms.

Star forward Mohamed Salah is seen with the trophy and parades it in front of his ecstatic team-mates Joe Gomez and Sadio Mane.

Star striker Mohamed Salah can be seen parading the trophy in front of his team-mates

Salah (right), Joe Gomez (centre) and Sadio Mane (left) are arm-in-arm as the team celebrate

Club staff enter the dressing room with the coveted trophy to jubilant scenes in Doha, Qatar

The famous song 'Championes, Championes, Ole Ole Ole' rings out as Liverpool delight

Meanwhile, the players took to their own social media accounts to share snaps showing off the latest addition to Anfield's esteemed trophy cabinet.

Hometown hero Trent Alexander-Arnold posted a selfie biting the winners medal, while number one goalkeeper Alisson beams with joy while posing with the trophy.

Star midfielder Fabinho was unable to play his part owing to injury, and was forced to watch on from home as his team-mates triumphed in the Middle East.

The Brazil international posted a shot of his television with the caption 'champions of the world'.

Hometown hero Trent Alexander-Arnold shares a snap of himself with the winners' medal

Goalkeeper Alisson posted a photo with the trophy after defeating his countrymen in Doha

Back up keeper Adrian shared a selfie with the trophy, with the emoji that the world is red

Injured midfielder Fabinho watched on from home but congratulated the players on Instagram

It was a physical encounter with the underdog Brazilians refusing to give the heavy favourites an inch, putting in heavy challenges to combat the threat of Salah, Mane and Firmino.

Before half time, footage emerged of Robertson telling Mane that he would exact revenge on Flamengo star Rafinha after the former Bayern Munich man got the Senegalese booked.

Rafinha was also caught up in VAR controversy, when he appeared to foul Mane moments before the full time whistle with the referee awarding a penalty. However, video technology intervened and the decision was overturned.

But while the players were celebrating in the changing rooms, manager Klopp will be acutely aware of the heavy fixture schedule his side are set to return to, as well as having to add another name to a lengthy list of injury absentees.

Liverpool will return to England and face Leicester City on Boxing Day in a table topping Premier League clash. The Foxes were unable to close the gap on the league leaders on Saturday, falling to defeat at Manchester City.

Jurgen Klopp is awaiting test results after Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain hobbled off in the game

The Englishman posted a picture of himself on crutches but he appeared in good spirits

In the post, the midfielder said hopefully the injury is not as serious as first thought

That fixture is followed by a home game against high-flying Wolves at Anfield, who came from behind to defeat Norwich City 2-1 at Carrow Road.

The German is facing something of a midfield conundrum after England international Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain was forced off in the second half of the final with what appears to be an ankle injury. Tests are yet to return on the seriousness of the former Arsenal man's knock.

However, Oxlade-Chamberlain is unlikely to be available for the Leicester game leaving Klopp with limited options in midfield as he is already without Fabinho and possibly Georginio Wijnaldum, who came off in the win over Watford with a hamstring issue.

For now, Klopp was eager to enjoy the moment. 'In moments like this, I struggle to find words when not in my native language,' Klopp said on Saturday night. 'The players' desire to win the next game and win the next challenge.'