If you have a problem, email z.west-meads@you.co.uk. Zelda reads all your letters but regrets that she cannot answer them all personally

I don’t want to be on my own this Christmas

I am feeling desperate because it looks as though I’ll be spending Christmas alone. I split up with my partner of 18 months a couple of weeks ago after we had a massive row – she said that I’m still in love with my ex-wife, which is true but I denied it. My wife left me a couple of years ago for another man. They are still together and seem very happy. We had agreed that she would have our children (aged 11 and 13) for Christmas this year. They will come to me a couple of days later but I can’t bear the thought of spending the day entirely on my own while everyone else is having a lovely time. I don’t want to go to my sister’s with my parents as that is what we all used to do before my marriage disintegrated – and my sister’s three children will be there but not mine. Should I call my ex-wife and ask her if I can go over for Christmas lunch so that at least I can see my children? I wasn’t entirely blameless in my marriage – I often used to go out drinking with my colleagues as it was all part of the culture.

It’s completely understandable that you want to see your children on Christmas Day. However, I would think carefully about going to see your ex-wife and her new partner (even if they agreed to this, which they might not) and only go if you could cope. You would probably find it very difficult to see them together being happy when you are still in love with her. The fact that you have very recently split up from your new relationship will make it feel even more raw. Also, it could be uncomfortable for your children as they will have divided loyalties to you and their new stepdad. On top of this, even though you accept that your wife perhaps had reasons to leave, you probably still feel some resentment towards her and the man she left you for. Instead, you could spend the day volunteering. Get in touch with Crisis, The Salvation Army or The Royal Voluntary Service. Or you could contact a local homeless shelter, old people’s home or hospice directly. I am sure that you would find it deeply rewarding and it would help you feel that the day has a purpose and could potentially lead to new friendships. Don’t be fooled by the Christmas myth that everyone else is having a lovely time, though. In fact, lawyers often report that there is a rise in people seeking divorces in January as enforced time with the family can highlight problems. There is a possibility that your recent relationship was a rebound one, but I am sure you will fall in love again, which will help you get over your ex-wife. Make the day you have with your children very special.

Caring for my elderly parents is making me ill

Although I love my elderly parents dearly, I am really struggling with my mental health as they keep unloading all their problems and frustrations on to me. A lot could be solved with outside help but they either refuse this or complain endlessly about it. I find the continual emotional barrage so painful that I resort to alcohol and prescribed medication. Sometimes I have to distance myself and this is then met with confusion and concern. They can’t see that I am too close emotionally to cope with this constant unloading. It can affect me for weeks, making me feel useless and worthless. I cease to function and suffer from nightmares and anxiety. I can’t carry on like this.



You are not at all useless or worthless – you clearly love your parents a great deal but this is just too much to cope with. I suspect your parents probably don’t realise the effect this is having on you. So tell them very gently but firmly that you love them but looking after them is causing you extreme anxiety. Say that you will have to organise some outside help and that, like it or not, they must accept it because worrying about them is making you ill. Don’t turn to alcohol, as it will probably make the anxiety worse and it sounds as if you are already on antidepressants. However, counselling might help you unload your stress, feel stronger in meeting your own needs and not so overwhelmed. Ask your GP for a referral or contact Relate (relate.org.uk) or the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy (bacp.co.uk).