A drunk holidaymaker who tried to open a plane's emergency exit in mid-air and screamed 'you are all going to f***ing die' as she attacked cabin crew has admitted to endangering an aircraft and assault.

Chloe Haines, 26, forced the packed Jet2 plane, which was headed to Turkey, to return back to London's Stansted Airport after trying to open the emergency door.

Haines of High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, was restrained by cabin crew and passengers on the flight, scratching one of them as they held her down.

She appeared before Chelmsford Crown Court today where she pleaded guilty to endangering the safety of the plane and to assaulting cabin crew member Charley Coombe.

Judge Charles Gratwicke adjourned sentencing until next month but warned Haines: 'All sentencing options remain open.'

The maximum penalty for endangering the safety of an aircraft by damage is a life sentence.

Jet2 previously sent her an £85,000 bill after the incident on June 22 this year, which saw two RAF jets scrambled to escort the plane back to Stansted.

Chloe Haines, 26, pictured (right) outside court in November, was charged with assault by beating and endangering an aircraft. She admitted to both charges today

Haines was said to have been restrained by both crew and passengers on the flight in June

Haines, who wore a long black coat and had her blonde hair down to her shoulders, wept throughout the hearing and denied a charge of drunkenness on an aircraft.

However, Barrister Oliver Saxby, representing her, said there was 'no question that she was drunk' but that the charge of endangering the safety of an aircraft was the 'more serious alternative'.

He added that she was now engaged in an Alcoholics Anonymous program.

He also revealed that less than three weeks before the mid-flight drama, Haines had been hit with a community punishment for offences but on the ground.

'She is a troubled young person with a number of serious issues.

'17 days before this occurred, she had been sentenced to a community order for not dissimilar offences.

Chloe Haines, 25, pictured, has been hit with an £85,000 bill by airline Jet2 over an air rage incident on a flight from Stansted to Turkey

Haines was arrested by Essex Police upon landing at London Stansted Airport on June 22 on suspicion of assault, criminal damage and endangering an aircraft

She appeared before Chelmsford Crown Court today where she pleaded guilty to endangering the safety of the plane and to assaulting cabin crew member Charley Coombe

'There was a loss of composure and loss of control.'

Mr Saxby asked for a pre-sentence report to be prepared about the defendant, giving the judge 'more information on her current situation, this offence having happened some six months or so ago'.

She was bailed to return to the court on January 24 for sentencing.

An earlier hearing at Chelmsford Magistrates' Court heard how Haines got up after the flight tried to open doors screaming 'I'm going to f*cking kill everyone, you are all going to f***ing die'.

Prosecutor Katharine Houghton told the earlier hearing how Haines stood up shortly after take off and threatened cabin crew.

'She was told to sit back down, she appeared intoxicated and told cabin crew to 'F**k off' and then tried to open the flight door and emergency exit door.

'She was restrained by cabin crew and passengers but was shouting 'I'm going to f**king kill everyone, you are all going to f**king die'.'

The RAF sent two Typhoon aircraft (file picture) to intercept the flight, causing sonic booms

Judge Gratwicke ordered that Haines not to travel from a UK airport as part of her bail conditions.

'This court needs to know far more about you.

'It was a serious offence and, indeed, all sentencing options remain open.'

The Typhoon fighters caused sonic booms as they flew to meet the plane and escort it back to Stansted in June.

The sonic booms triggered panic in Essex, with police receiving multiple calls.

Jet2 said in a statement following the incident that Haines had been hit with both an £85,000 bill and a lifetime ban from the airline.

Speaking in July, Steve Heapy, chief executive of Jet2.com and Jet2holidays, said: 'As a family friendly airline, we take an absolutely zero tolerance approach to disruptive behaviour.'