Try a feature wall

In this basement bar, the walls take centre stage, from the metro tiles to the rows of spirits and open shelving. The mismatched bare bulb pendants add to the easygoing ambience. The bar was a collaboration between interior designer Sommer Pyne and madebyjason.co.uk. The stools are from catering supplier nisbets.co.uk.

For a bespoke bar sign try etsy.com

The walls take centre stage, from the metro tiles to the rows of spirits and open shelving

Include a drinks table

In this living room, a vintage acrylic and mirror console table multitasks as a statement bar. Using an existing table as a drinks station not only saves space, it can be moved from room to room.

For a similar design, try carewjones.co.uk. The print is by Alex Katz, alexkatz.com. Find more Paris Review artwork at theparisreview.org

Using an existing table as a drinks station not only saves space, it can be moved from room to room

Make a statement

This glossy brass and glass unit adds instant party glamour, and its open nature makes it a sleek showcase for bottles, glasses and more.

For a similar unit try uk.jonathanadler.com; for midcentury-style chairs visit westelm.co.uk

Brass and glass unit adds instant party glamour

Opt for informal seating

Mismatched chairs or casual bar stools create a relaxed environment, and you can add to the collection over time. Here, bottles are displayed in front of a mirrored backdrop, which lends a cocktail-bar vibe and helps open up a small space

Mismatched chairs or casual bar stools create a relaxed environment

Get the lighting right

Creating the right atmosphere is everything: the Atlante bar by porada.it has three compartments with details including a glass-holder, a soft-close drawer and a smoked glass shelf with built-in remote-controlled LED lights. Prices from £4,777

Creating the right atmosphere is everything

Trolley Flash

Roll out the glamour with these cocktail-hour centrepieces

Styling: Nicole Gray. Photograph: Kristy Noble. From left Mango wood and metal bar cart, £399, johnlewis.com. Marble chess set, £69, made.com. Wine cooler, £185, alessi.com. Prosecco (throughout), £24.99, selfridges.com. Double measure, £19.95, grahamandgreen.co.uk. Wine glass, £24, oliverbonas.com. Globe decanter, £65, johnlewis.com. Mirrored bar cart, £225, audenza.com. Monkey, £175, rockettstgeorge.co.uk. Marble and wood trolley, £435, oliverbonas.com. Barware set, £198, trouva.com. Decanter, £28, and tumblers, £7 each, oliverbonas.com. Monkey, £175, and champagne bucket, £120, rockettstgeorge.co.uk. Tiles, £5 each, bertandmay.com. Curtain, Tatiana Maize fabric, £83.50 a metre, romo.com

We’ll drink to that!

Home-infused spirits are having a moment. Here are three Christmas recipes to try out, courtesy of Waitrose

Coffee & chocolate bourbon

Coffee & chocolate bourbon

Makes about 850ml

1 tbsp chocolate extract

100ml freshly brewed espresso

700ml bourbon

150g caster sugar

Mix all the ingredients together and pour into a large (minimum 1.5 litre) Kilner jar. The drink is then ready to serve – decant into gorgeous glassware to drink as a digestif or add to chocolate desserts.

Bramble & berry rum

Makes about 1 litre

1 litre white or golden rum

1 vanilla pod, split

250g frozen forest fruits

100g caster sugar

Combine the ingredients and pour into a wide-necked bottle. Seal and leave to infuse for 7-10 days. Strain and decant into smaller presentation bottles. Add to mulled wine for an extra kick.

Spiced Clementine Gin

Makes about 850ml

700ml London Dry Gin

5 clementines, unpeeled, sliced

200g caster sugar H 5 cloves

2 star anise

Prepare the mixture as in the previous recipe. Serve with slices of fresh orange.For more recipes, visit waitrose.com.