Could Suki Waterhouse be unwrapping something ring-shaped and sparkly on Christmas?

It has been 18 months since they were first photographed kissing after a cinema date. Now could Suki Waterhouse be unwrapping something ring-shaped and sparkly on Christmas Day from boyfriend Robert Pattinson?

Despite being notoriously private about their relationship – they have rarely been photographed together since that first date – the couple are taking their relationship to the next level by spending the festive season at model Suki’s family home in West London.

I’m told Robert – known to his fans as R-Patz – has lined up a trip to Iceland as a gift for his 27-year-old girlfriend. But even more exciting is the talk among their friends that the Twilight actor, 33, may ask Suki’s father Norman and mother Elizabeth for their daughter’s hand in marriage.

‘Suki and Robert are a great influence on each other, which is why he is spending Christmas with the Waterhouses,’ says a family friend.

‘Suki encourages him to be more relaxed and Robert keeps her grounded when she’s feeling anxious. As they’re spending Christmas together, it’s the perfect opportunity for him to ask for Suki’s hand. Lots of people, including Norman, are hoping that he pops the question.’

The stars were first linked in July 2018 when they were spotted leaving a showing of Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again at the trendy Electric Cinema in Notting Hill. They then headed to nearby Soho House for late-night drinks.

They’ve been known to go on double dates with pals Taylor Swift and actor Joe Alwyn, and keep in touch with each other via FaceTime when their schedules keep them apart.

First date: Suki and Robert in 2018. I’m told Robert – known to his fans as R-Patz – has lined up a trip to Iceland as a gift for his 27-year-old girlfriend

The season of goodwill is lost on Vic Reeves’ wife Nancy Sorrell, who has taken a catty swipe at Sophie Cannell, the girlfriend of Vic’s artist pal Damien Hirst.

Former ballerina Sophie, 26, posts Instagram shots on board her beau’s private jet or on their lavish holidays but Nancy, 45, told me at the Tramp Christmas party: ‘We take private jets but we don’t feel the need to boast about it.’

So it’s official: it’s OK to fly around the world in private planes in these green-conscious times… just don’t tell anyone!

Robbie Williams may have been a party animal in his youth, but there is one thing that completely floors him these days – Christmas morning.

After being woken at the crack of dawn and watching his three young children unwrap their gifts from Santa, the singer sneaks back upstairs for a quick nap. ‘The kids get too excited and get up too early,’ he says in a Radio 2 interview.

‘You want to join them opening presents but you’re too tired. I need three or four espressos to get me through that. I fancy not telling the kids it’s Christmas so they don’t know!’