Comedienne Lucy Porter says the best money decision she ever made was having children.

The 46-year-old mother-of-two has found that the responsibility of parenting has made her more financially savvy, triggering her to start a pension and become more ambitious about her career.

She lives in Pinner, Middlesex, with her husband, actor Justin Edwards, 47, and children Emily, nine, and John, eight. Her new comedy show, Be Prepared, goes on tour next year.

Funny money: Lucy Porter worked in her parents' pharmacy as a child. She wouldn't get paid, but she got to take home the Rimmel make-up testers and some very bad-tasting sweets

What did your parents teach you about money?

Not to waste it. My mum was brilliant with money. She and dad had quite financially straitened circumstances all through their lives. They both came from working class backgrounds and were really frugal. Mum in particular never bought anything frivolous and always shopped around for the cheapest option or made her own version of whatever it was. She was really good at reusing and recycling stuff and never bought anything on the ‘never never’, as she called it.

The priority for both my parents was that my sister and I would be brought up in a middle class home. They wanted us to have the advantages they never had. My mum kept a tight rein on the family finances as a result and I never even realised that money was short. I understand now why the car was on its last legs and we didn’t have the heating on, but at the time I did not have a clue.

What was the first paid work you ever did?

Both my parents were pharmacists so I used to work in their shop at a young age. Instead of payment, I would get perks to take home – the Rimmel make-up testers and these really disgusting diabetic sweets when they had gone out of date. But they were still sweets.

When I was really young, I would sort out the stock room upstairs, but when I was older I worked on the shop floor. Being behind the counter was never really an option because nobody wants to talk about their piles to a 14 year-old girl or buy their condoms from her.

Have you ever struggled to make ends meet?

Yes, I went through a difficult time in my twenties when I was starting out in comedy. I was working in production for Granada TV when I decided to make the leap into being a comedian. It was terrifying.

My parents, who valued security and stability, were horrified I was chucking in a decent job to travel up and down the country, earning no money. You do not get paid much when you start doing comedy. I would not dream of doing such a crazy thing now, of course, but at the time I was young and too stupid to know any better.

I made just about enough to pay my rent in a flatshare in Manchester and travelled to all my gigs by coach or night bus. I would work every single night, mostly for free, but occasionally for about £50. I lived like that for about a year and a half.

How did you cope financially?

Luckily, our flat was opposite the Danish discount supermarket Netto, and they always did beans as a loss leader. That was the excitement of the week – finding out how much they were charging for beans. It went down to as low as 6p, I recall.

My flatmates and I would stagger over the road with loads of pallets of these 6p bean cans and just live off them – and really cheap Bulgarian white wine.

My mother had taught me that you don’t need a lot of fripperies. So, if something is important to you and you really want it, then it is worth making material sacrifices for it.

I do worry though that it is now more difficult for young people to get into stand-up comedy. The gigs that used to pay my rent and travel in the early days would not do so today. You would need extra financial support.

Have you ever been paid silly money?

Lucy Porter once got paid £10,000 to do an advertisement for mobile phones. It lasted just a single day and she used the earnings from it to take part in the Edinburgh Fringe. (Above) A publicity shot from her one-woman show Lady Luck from the 2004 Fringe

Yes. The most memorable time was in 2000. I did a commercial advertising mobile phones. It only took one day and I got paid £10,000. I used the money to take part in the Edinburgh festival and that made an incredible difference to my career. I got lots of TV work out of it – it turned out to be a big turning point.

The commercial is still on YouTube. All I had to do was to dance around with loads of different mobile phones – and a weird puppet fox. It was all rather baffling. I watched it the other day and it made me cringe, but it was so worth it. I couldn’t believe it when my agent told me how much they were going to pay.

What was the best year of your financial life?

Last year. I would rather not say how much I earned, but I had a few well-paid TV gigs and my tour, Pass It On, went well. That has allowed me to go off and write another show, Be Prepared, which I’m touring with next year.

What is the most expensive thing you bought for fun?

Lego. I love it, but for little plastic blocks it can be unbelievably expensive. For example, I recently bought a Harry Potter Fantastic Beasts Lego set for £50. I pretended it was for my daughter but, if I’m honest, she never laid a finger on it. She is into Lego but not nearly as much as I am. That is my guilty pleasure.

What is your biggest money mistake?

Not starting a pension when I was in my early thirties and earning good money. I spent a lot on spray tans and manicures, stuff that I now think: ‘Why did I not put that money into a pension?’

The best money decision you have made?

Lucy is married to the actor and writer Justin Edwards. They own a three-bed semi-detached house in Pinner, Middlesex

Having children. It forced me to grow up and sort out my finances. I went to see an accountant, had a sobering chat, got a financial adviser, made a will and finally started a pension.

When you work in a creative industry and you have children to support, it also compels you to be productive. It has made me want to earn more and be ambitious.

Do you save regularly into a pension?

Yes, as much as I can. I am now obsessed with trying to save for my retirement – even though, if I am still working in my eighties, I’ll be absolutely delighted.

Do you invest directly in the stock market?

Yes. I have a stocks and shares Isa. I don’t know exactly what investment funds I am invested in, I let my financial adviser take care of it. I don’t really understand the stock market so I would rather leave it to an expert.

Do you own any property?

Yes, my husband and I have a property portfolio of one: our home. It’s a three-bedroom semi-detached house in Pinner, just outside London. I don’t know what it’s worth and neither do I want to know because it is probably worth less than when we bought it in 2016.

We actually exchanged on the day of the Brexit referendum. After the result came in, I panicked.

Everyone was saying: this is a terrible time to buy a house. But my husband pointed out that nothing was going to happen on the Brexit front for a few years and it turned out he was absolutely right.

What is the one little luxury you treat yourself to?

Chocolate, fancy herbal teas and good food. My husband and I are like neutered animals: all we think about is food. For the record, I rarely eat baked beans these days.

If you were Chancellor what would you do?

Resign! It would be the worst thing for the country for me to be Chancellor of the Exchequer. I would spend the entire national budget on Lego within a week.

If I was not allowed to resign, I would increase the Carer’s Allowance. There are so many people living impecunious and restricted lives because they are caring for other people, saving the taxpayer billions of pounds. I think they should get a little more back.

Do you donate money to charity?

Yes, I raise money for Carers’ UK. My mother was a carer for my father and then I was a carer for my mother. That gave me an insight into how difficult the lives of carers are.

I also support Action for Stammering Children. We’ve been having some family help from them and they are an amazing charity.

What is your number one financial priority?

To have the financial freedom to pursue my dreams – and to ensure my kids and my husband can do the same.