It's been another eventful year in the world of money, from the Woodford saga and election, to a mortgage price war and continued pain for savers.

Our experts reveal how they scored on discounts, savings and tax relief

Jeff Prestridge: 'I now get to travel free on London’s Underground. And my senior railcard – costing £30 a year – secures me a third off rail fares. This is perfect for my regular visits to the Hawthorns, home of (hopefully) Premier League-bound West Bromwich Albion Football Club'

THE VICTORIES

JEFF PRESTRIDGE - Cheaper travel and entertainment

Turning 60 can feel like joining the approach road to the pearly gates. There might still be a lot of road ahead, but any intimation of immortality vanishes for good.

Yet hitting three score years is not all bad news. When I run, I am now winning as many races in my veterans’ 60-to-65 age category at the weekend as I am losing – and I am also enjoying a raft of financial discounts as a result of ‘old’ age.

I now get to travel free on London’s Underground. And my senior railcard – costing £30 a year – secures me a third off rail fares.

This is perfect for my regular visits to the Hawthorns, home of (hopefully) Premier League-bound West Bromwich Albion Football Club. Because of my age I also get a discount on my season ticket. Some say long-suffering Albion fans should all receive discounts.

Occasional Saturdays – this season in particular – were almost heavenly. Free travel to Euston railway station, a cheap (advance) return ticket to Birmingham New Street, and a victory for the Baggies (Albion’s nickname).

And, so far, no sight of those pearly gates, apart from a complaining prostate.

TOBY WALNE - Energetic energy savings

My main victory was turning direct debit payments for energy into a savings account. I was £1,200 in the black by the end of the year – enough to cover the expense of Christmas.

The catalyst for this was one sleepless night when I heard a strange sound coming from the airing cupboard. Upon investigation, it transpired the immersion heater was in permanent ‘on’ mode, burning electricity like crazy and a hole in my pocket at the start of the year. Yikes.

After turning it off, I carried on paying the same monthly direct debit amount – unwittingly building up a surplus of £1,200 by December. Having boiling hot water in the house 24 hours a day is expensive. So please ensure your immersion heater is used as it is intended – usually for unexpected shortages of hot water, such as when guests visit.

Wiser from the experience, I changed 20 halogen bulbs to eco-friendly LED lamps for another saving. No smart energy meter required.

For every £8 Laura puts in her government tax-free childcare account to pay nursery fees for my two-year-old daughter, the State adds £2, up to £2,000 a year. It’s a great financial deal, especially for anyone not receiving or not eligible for childcare vouchers

LAURA SHANNON - Support for much needed childcare

I have saved our household at least £1,500 a year by opening a Government tax-free childcare account.

For every £8 I put in the account to pay nursery fees for my two-year-old daughter, the State adds £2, up to £2,000 a year. And with another family member having just arrived – the beautiful Madeleine – I’ll be claiming the same sum for her next year too, as the boost is per child rather than per family.

It’s a great financial deal, especially for anyone not receiving or not eligible for childcare vouchers. However, not enough eligible parents sign up for the free cash. My own parents would say it’s better than a poke in the eye – so why would you turn it down?

If you are working parents paying for childcare, sign up to gov.uk/tax-free-childcare.

But if you are claiming childcare vouchers through an employer you might be better off with that scheme.

A smaller win came in the form of recycling old clothes. High street retailer H&M gives customers a £5 voucher for handing over clothes that would otherwise be dumped in landfill – any item, from any brand, in any condition.

Placing an advert on flatsharing website spareroom.co.uk meant Sarah found her flatmate, Rosie, who works nearby and was looking for a short commute. Under the Government Rent a Room scheme, the first £7,500 a year of income is tax-free

SARAH BRIDGE - Tax-free income from my spare room

The best financial decision I made this year was renting out my spare bedroom. I had been using it as a study, but by moving the desk into my bedroom – a bit of a squeeze – I was able to free up the room.

Placing an advert on flatsharing website spareroom.co.uk meant I found my lovely flatmate, Rosie, who works nearby and was looking for a short commute. Under the Government Rent a Room scheme, the first £7,500 a year of income is tax-free. As my income from the room falls just under the threshold, my tax exemption is automatic.

Renting out my spare room does mean I no longer qualify for a single person’s discount on council tax, but even with that and a slight increase in bills it is well worth it for the extra income and the security of knowing there’s a fixed amount coming in every month.

The biggest finance stories of 2019 What was the biggest financial story of 2019? Does Woodford trump Brexit and the election, were you more concerned about the wealth gap, or do all those pale into insignificance next to the challenges of climate change? On this week’s podcast, Simon Lambert, Georgie Frost and Tanya Jefferies discuss the money stories that shaped the final year of a tumultuous decade. Press play above or listen (and please subscribe if you like the podcast) at Apple Podcasts, Acast, Spotify and Audioboom or visit our This is Money Podcast page.

2019 was a terrible year for the once-revered investment manager Neil Woodford. Both Jeff Prestridge and Toby Walne were financially affected by the collapse of his investment empire

AND THE DEFEATS

JEFF PRESTRIDGE - Holes in my travel plans

I have had little holiday joy this year. Neil Woodford and his imploding investment funds curtailed a splendid few days in Soller, Majorca (please go, you’ll love it), while my mother’s battle with breast cancer resulted in a Mediterranean cruise cancellation at the last moment.

Even a weekend at the Sidmouth Folk Festival – a longstanding family outing – had to be cancelled as Mum reeled from her diagnosis.

Although my annual travel insurance meant I recouped a good portion of the cost of the cruise, it didn’t extend to the Sidmouth hotel booking. To make matters worse, in making the reservation via website booking.com, I failed to opt for free cancellation, not thinking anything would get in the way of my love for morris dancing. Lesson learnt.

Mum is now back on track and determined to cruise away in 2020. I and my younger sister will travel as her attendants. Fully insured.

TOBY WALNE - Woodford blighted

Investment bogeyman Neil Woodford has reduced my £10,000 in his failed Equity Income fund to about half its original value. Star manager? Not in this galaxy.

As an investor in stocks and shares, you pays your money and takes your choice. I get that. I grieve not for myself – I’ll get over it – but for the thousands of elderly victims who entrusted huge chunks of their life savings to this greedy man. They will suffer the consequences while this multi-millionaire amateur show jumper trots off into the Cotswolds sunset. He takes with him £8.7million of fees trousered while Equity Income lay suspended due to his mismanagement. There is a name for people like him – but it is too rude to print. Au revoir, Mr Woodford.

LAURA SHANNON - Forgetting my currency card

It is not a good look when a personal finance reporter who harps on about better currency deals is stung by credit card fees abroad.

I unnecessarily paid £12 over just two days in Spain. You may not think that a big sum, but it is a bitter pill to swallow when I should have known better. It is akin to buying a nice bottle of Shiraz, and then pouring it down the drain. The sore point is that it was not through lack of organisation.

Laura Shannon: 'It is not a good look when a personal finance reporter who harps on about better currency deals is stung by credit card fees abroad. I unnecessarily paid £12 over just two days in Spain. You may not think that a big sum, but it is a bitter pill to swallow'

I dutifully topped up my prepaid travel card at a mid-market rate, paying just a small fee on top, in good time before my departure.

What I didn’t prepare for was what I would do if I forgot my PIN code – which is exactly what happened. So I had to rely on my bank’s credit card, wincing each time I used it because I knew it was an avoidable expense. Worse was returning home to discover that retrieving my PIN only required sending a text. Can you hear my palm slapping my forehead?

SARAH BRIDGE - Booking flights too late

My worst financial decision this year is buying plane tickets at the last minute and failing to buy currency in advance. As a travel blogger – I have my own website, aladyofleisure.com – I travel overseas often, sometimes at short notice, which cannot be helped. But even when I do have more time I still only get round to buying tickets just before I fly.

I’m off skiing over New Year and have just forked out almost £500 for a return to Geneva on easyJet. Such a contrast to my recent British Airways flight to Dubrovnik, which cost less than £30 – it was the end of the holiday season.

I also need to sort out my currency ‘attitude’ as I usually get cash from the Travelex concessions at the airport, which certainly do not offer the best exchange rate.

Worse, on a recent trip I bought euros – before arriving in Copenhagen to realise that, of course, Denmark’s currency is the krone.