Britain's largest grocers are cutting prices to the bone in a tense festive stand-off with shoppers that has left stores facing a Christmas ‘bloodbath’.

Food industry sources said sales at major supermarket chains, which have been poor for weeks, have crashed in the past ten days and left many stores struggling to match last year’s festive period.

Bosses at some major names are said to have been left reeling by declines of as much as 10 per cent on the weakest days compared to last year – possibly made worse by recent bad weather.

A Christmas bloodbath may be on the grocery industry's hands. Food industry sources said sales at major supermarket chains, which have been poor for weeks, have crashed in the past ten days and left many stores struggling to match last year’s festive period

Experts suggested ‘subdued’ consumers have snapped up essentials in shops while cutting back on treats. They also said the relentless growth of Aldi and Lidl means spending is spread more thinly across more shops across the UK.

The result has been a pile-up of fresh stock for some stores.

The market is awash with huge discounts including Tesco’s price-leading 500g of sprouts at 19p – less than a penny per sprout. It is also selling whole salmon at £5.50, half the previous price.

Asda, Morrisons, Sainsbury’s –which together with Tesco are the country’s four largest retailers – all have similar discounts on fresh produce. That includes drastic cuts on loose vegetables, but also lamb, beef joints and fish.

Senior supermarket sources said chains were desperate to keep the products moving off the shelves with last week having been ‘worryingly slow’.

They added that even if sales recover as families stock up for Christmas, it could be too late to make up for lost income over the full festive trading period.

One senior source said: ‘We had hoped the Election would be the turning point but, if anything, things got worse last week. It will all come down to the next few days but there will be a mountain to climb just to match last year’s sales. At this point it’s looking like a bit of a bloodbath.’

Another said: ‘Retail directors are in the nightmare position of halting orders or giving their warehouses the green light and having it all piling up in the stock rooms at the back of stores if things don’t pick up. Cutting prices is compounding the problem and keeping sales figures subdued.’

Asda, Morrisons, Sainsbury’s –which together with Tesco are the country’s four largest retailers – all have similar discounts on fresh produce. That includes drastic cuts on loose vegetables, but also lamb, beef joints and fish

The supermarket and grocery sector accounts for almost £200billion of sales a year, about half of retail spending in Britain.

The looming disaster follows some intense discounting on the high street, with Debenhams and House of Fraser already offering 50 per cent off clothing ranges.

Some experts said a more restrained attitude among consumers had set in amid the political uncertainty.

One supermarket source said there had been a lot less restraint among shoppers last year, adding: ‘There was a sense that shoppers spent up. Things are not panning out that way this year.

‘The industry may find itself waking up to a bit of a January hangover and asking whether there is too much space for the current demand.’

Clive Black, grocery industry expert at Shore Capital: 'Right up to the General Election the political mood infected parts of the market. People were generally just buying what they needed with very few impulse purchases. The Election relief since then has been modest'

The next few days may allow companies to claw back sales if there is a last-minute rush.

But analysts said even that may still leave them reporting negative like-for-like store sales – at stores open at least a year, which is regarded as the most accurate measure of a retailer’s health – when they report on festive sales in the second week in January.

Clive Black, grocery industry expert and head of research at Shore Capital, said: ‘My expectation is that we are heading for a fairly sombre trading update period in January.

‘Right up to the General Election the political mood infected parts of the market. People were generally just buying what they needed with very few impulse purchases.

‘The Election relief since then has been modest. I think the consumer mood is not going to come through until later next year when we get a firmer idea of how Government policy is shaping up.’

Black said he was currently forecasting ‘flat to negative’ for the biggest four supermarkets – Tesco, Sainsbury’s, Asda and Morrisons.

He added that Marks & Spencer could have better results and recent improvements may have given it ‘some momentum’.

Other sources said even Aldi and Lidl have not been insulated from the current malaise.