He's the City grandee who has spent half a century in the Square Mile, run an investment bank, chaired five FTSE 100 companies, battled troublesome hedge fund investors, overseen multi-billion pound mergers – some which fell through – and steered Royal Mail through privatisation.

But Sir Donald Brydon says putting together his radical review of the way companies are audited in the wake of a string of scandals at some of Britain’s best-known companies has been one of the hardest jobs he’s done.

‘A lot of this was done in the early hours of the morning,’ he explains, the evening after the 135-page Government-commissioned report was unveiled last week.

Brydon was commissioned by the Government in February this year to look into the ‘quality and effectiveness of audit’. He says putting together his radical review of the way companies are audited in the wake of a string of scandals has been one of the hardest jobs he’s done

The collapses of Thomas Cook, Patisserie Valerie and Carillion – all of whose accounts were signed off by auditors shortly before their downfalls – has thrust the often grey profession of accountancy into the spotlight.

Brydon was commissioned by the Government in February this year to look into the ‘quality and effectiveness of audit’.

Put simply, his proposals call for the audit industry to be separated from accounting and for auditors and company directors to show how they have tried to uncover and prevent fraud. Auditors will also need to give more information about the state of a company’s finances. ‘Everybody in this process is going to have to up their game a bit,’ he says in his soft – if slightly faded – Edinburgh tones.

Patisserie Valerie’s shock collapse as a result of alleged accounting fraud raised questions about Grant Thornton’s role as auditor for not spotting the black hole in the accounts. Yet the accounting firm’s boss David Dunckley told MPs that it was not their job to look for fraud.

His comments stunned Brydon. ‘We had this extraordinary moment when one of the audit bosses [Dunckley] said that they had no obligation to find fraud. Well, they will,’ he says, tapping at a copy of his report on the table in his office at software giant Sage on the 17th floor of the Shard, overlooking London Bridge Station.

He adds: ‘Just as the police can’t stop murder, auditors can’t stop fraud. And there will be times when somebody’s invented a completely new fraud that’s brilliant and no auditor might have reasonably been expected to find. But the run of the mill, bog standard frauds, they ought to and they ought to try to find them as well.’

Brydon wants auditors to learn the skills that forensic accountants have so that they can spot fraud. And he thinks it won’t put off people from the industry who might fear recriminations if they fail to spot the next Patisserie Valerie.

‘I think this makes the auditing profession more attractive, not less attractive, because they’ll be making much more use of their own judgment and much less being people who are driven by templates and boilerplates. And that means bright and good people will be attracted to do it.’

Patisserie Valerie’s shock collapse as a result of alleged accounting fraud raised questions about Grant Thornton’s role as auditor for not spotting the black hole in the accounts. Yet the accounting firm’s boss David Dunckley told MPs that it was not their job to look for fraud

He says it is simplistic to say auditing is currently just a box-ticking exercise, but there is ‘not enough latitude for a free expression of the auditors’ judgments because they’re trapped in boilerplate language’. He adds: ‘When Thomas Cook went bust, people were arguing about the goodwill (hard-to-value assets) that was being carried on their balance sheet. But it’s quite possible for two people to come up with two totally different values for goodwill but both of them be consistent with the rules because they are judgments about the future. They’re both correct but don’t necessarily inform.

‘So my hope is that as a consequence, shareholders will see much more of the range of possible outcomes, rather than just see one number – and that will inform. Auditors today don’t have an obligation to inform.’

A parliamentary review of Carillion’s downfall in 2018 accused accountants of being a ‘cosy club incapable of providing the degree of independent challenge needed’.

Brydon doesn’t entirely agree, but says that people appear to have forgotten who the audit is being carried out for: shareholders, not the companies themselves.

He says: ‘Human beings have to interact and get on reasonably well to do things. If the auditor came in with hobnail boots on and started stamping around they wouldn’t get much cooperation. There has to be some degree of cooperation.

A parliamentary review of Carillion’s downfall in 2018 accused accountants of being a ‘cosy club incapable of providing the degree of independent challenge needed’.

‘Is it a cosy club? It’s important that people are clear who the audit is being done for. The audit is for the benefit of the users and the chief financial officer is not the client. And I think there’s been some confusion in recent years about that. The chief financial officer shouldn’t be the one negotiating the fee. After all, it’s the CFO’s homework that’s getting marked.’

His radical approach has surprised many. ‘I think they expected incremental change, little things here and there,’ he says, having received plenty of positive feedback from peers. But those who have followed his career already knew he was a hard-nosed heavyweight not afraid to rattle cages.

After graduating from Edinburgh University in maths, Brydon moved to London and began his City career at the British Airways pension fund, where he launched a computer programme which was the early shoots of what we now know as an index tracker fund that follows the rises and falls of a stock market.

Next stop Barclays, where he ran its investment arm BZW for 20 years, before joining insurer Axa for the next 15 years. After that were stints as chairman of major UK companies Smiths Group, medical products firm Amersham, market research firm Taylor Nelson Sofres, Royal Mail as it was privatised, the London Stock Exchange Group – culminating in a battle with hedge fund investor Sir Chris Hohn – and accounting software company Sage.

Sir Donald Brydon was formerly the chairman of the London Stock Exchange

The row with Hohn was over his handling of the departure of LSE chief executive Xavier Rolet. Last year, Brydon ousted Sage’s chief executive Stephen Kelly, underlining his reputation as an ‘axeman’. Brydon takes umbrage at that. ‘First of all, I don’t like it because I think it’s not fair and not true,’ he says, shaking his head.

‘Second, if you’re chairman of a company for nine years, the probability is you’re going to have a change in chief executive in that time. So some [of those who leave] will be voluntary and some involuntary. It’s sort of inevitable.

‘The only thing I would say is if you look at the performance of the stocks of every company when I was there and the chief executive changed, the new chief executive’s stock price performance has been better than the old chief executive’s. So perhaps that says what matters.

‘Every single company I’ve been a non-executive director, senior independent director or chairman of has beaten the market while I’ve been on the board. It’s not a bad record.’

He believes what he has proposed for auditing will help to restore confidence in business, which he feels is still lacking 11 years after the financial crisis.

‘There’s no doubt 2008-09 was a watershed moment. Business has been fighting to restore trust in itself ever since. And of course, if you’re in the process of trying to restore trust and you have some disasters then it doesn’t help. That’s the lens to look at it through.’

It could take another 15 years to restore trust in capitalism, he claims – such was the damage done in the crash. ‘I think there’s a lot of hard lifting to do. Until real wages start rising again, people will have doubts,’ he says.

But first things first, after 10 months, 150-odd meetings and 2,500 pages of input from industry experts, it’s time for Brydon to put his feet up and enjoy Christmas.