Advertisement

Teresa Giudice appears to have a new man in her life after separating from her husband of 20 years Joe Giudice just days ago.

The reality star, 47, was pictured snuggling up to a mystery man Saturday during a bundled-up stroll in before having breakfast together.

Teresa's potential new beau wrapped his arm around her as they arrived at the New Jersey eatery.

Moving on: Teresa Giudice appears to have a new man in her life after separating from her husband of 20 years Joe Giudice just days ago

Said mystery man appears to be Anthony Delorenzo, aka Tony the contractor, who's made a few appearances on The Real Housewives of New Jersey.

RHONJ fans might remember a recent episode in which Teresa got pretty flirtatious with the contractor amid Joe's deportation.

During their exchange, Tony revealed that he and Teresa had known each other for 41 years.

Teresa kept warm for their outing in a black puffer coat, paired with a black turtleneck, slim black jeans and matching boots.

Mystery man: The reality star was pictured snuggling up to a mystery man Saturday during a bundled-up stroll before having breakfast together

Familiar face: Said mystery man appears to be Anthony Delorenzo, aka Tony the contractor, who's made a few appearances on The Real Housewives of New Jersey

Bundled up: Teresa kept warm for their outing in a black puffer coat, paired with a black turtleneck, slim black jeans and matching boots. She completed the look with a pair of black shield aviators trimmed in gold and a Gucci belt

Brief flirtation: RHONJ fans might remember a recent episode in which Teresa got pretty flirtatious with the contractor amid Joe's deportation

A handful: The 47-year-old seemed very comfortable with her brunch companion, stopping outside the restaurant to touch his muscles

She completed the look with a pair of black shield aviators trimmed in gold and a Gucci belt.

The 47-year-old seemed very comfortable with her brunch companion, stopping outside the restaurant to touch his muscles.

He sported a black workout pullover with a neon green zipper, matching his Oakley sunglasses.

The look was completed with a pair of navy blue Under Armour joggers and some matching sneakers.

Their romantic outing comes just days after Teresa and Joe's separation was announced after 20 years of marriage.

A source close to the family told People: 'They discussed their future when Teresa and the girls went to Italy in early November and they agreed that each had to move on. They are doing so amicably and very slowly.'

Keeping it casual: He sported a black workout pullover with a neon green zipper, matching his Oakley sunglasses

Activewear chic: The look was completed with a pair of navy blue Under Armour joggers and some matching sneakers

Happy faces: He and Teresa were all smiles as they arrived at the local brunch spot

Ring ring: They snuggled close together while Tony finished a phone call

Newly single: Their romantic outing comes just days after Teresa and Joe's separation was announced after 20 years of marriage

They added: 'Joe has been out on a few dates, Teresa has not. She has been too busy with the girls, with work obligations and taking care of her father.

'She is happy for Joe. They have been very friendly with one another and are very supportive of each other’s happiness. They still love one another, but as Teresa told Andy Cohen on the WWHL special, they are separated by the Atlantic Ocean. Neither is interested in a long distance relationship.'

They've yet to file for divorce, while Joe, 47, has been living in his home country of Italy after spending five months in an ICE detention facility.

His Green Card was revoked after he and Teresa served separate sentences for pleading guilty to 41 counts of fraud.

The couple was married in 1999, and they share daughters Gia, 18, Gabriella, 15, Milania, 14, and Audriana, 10.