For now, at least, the Jose Mourinho charm offensive is on course.

Even Eric Dier, who had the indignity of being hauled off 29 minutes into Mourinho's second game in charge, against Olympiakos, vouches for impression that has he made since taking over at Tottenham last month.

Despite that, Dier has had something of a revival under Mourinho, starting four out of five games and insists he bears no ill feeling for the first-half substitution.

'It's never happened before and it's not something you ever want to happen,' said Dier. 'It's not a good sign, is it? So you're upset but I completely understood his reasons.

Eric Dier insists he bears no ill feeling for the first-half substitution against Olympiakos

'He spoke to me after the game and I completely understood his reasons and we were losing 2-0. I always say, we were losing 2-0 and we won 4-2 so he was right.'

Dier and Mourinho have connections which go way back. Dier was raised in Portugal and was coached at Sporting by Mourinho's godson, Tiago Fernandes. Mourinho famously wanted to sign Dier when he was at Manchester United and former manager Mauricio Pochettino was upset when the pair had a long conversation in Portuguese immediately after a Spurs defeat at Old Trafford in 2016.

And whilst Dier and Pochettino resolved that difference, with the England midfielder enormously appreciative of his rise under the Argentine coach, there remains a degree of mutual appreciation between Dier and Mourinho.

Asked about the impact Mourinho has made since being appointed last month, Dier said: 'It's really difficult to talk about that kind of thing. I never wanted to be in this situation as a player, where a manager got sacked whilst I was playing for that club. I've seen it happen at other clubs. You never want to be that player or that squad that goes through the same thing.

Mourinho famously wanted to sign Dier when he was manager at Manchester United

'That was difficult to accept at the time, because as players we know, at the end of the day, it's us who play and it's us who need to perform. I would never want to mean any disrespect to Mauricio and everything that he did for the club and for myself and for the team.

'But in a sense when a new manager arrives or in any walk of life there's new stimulus, you have to think about different things. This manager wants some things in different ways, some things the same so that all gives you a new stimulus that you have to try and learn and improve at so you have to change, which is always good for your mind, so it's been enjoyable to learn new ideas and see a certain perspective on different situations within a game and approach things differently. In that sense, it's been very enjoyable.

'I feel very lucky to have worked under Pochettino and now Mourinho. For me personally, I just see it as a great opportunity to learn from another great manager, one of the best there's ever been. It's a great opportunity to learn new things, see how he works and try to improve myself.'

The midfielder has had something of a revival under Mourinho, starting four out of five games

Growing up in Portugal, Dier saw the Mourinho effect early on. His impressions as a child?

'A big character, a big manager, a serial winner, all of those things. In Portugal there are two people that are bigger than anything else, and it's him and Ronaldo. Growing up there and living that experience gave me a different perspective. Playing against him, it was being against a big character who loves football and loves to win.

'I think from when he won the Champions League with Porto, his personality was already what it is today. The year they won the Champions League, he took himself and Porto to another level. He's very personal. He makes you feel very comfortable around him. He's very approachable. He's got a lot of energy. He's at training every day, he's really involved. I think it's no secret, he's said it to us and to the press, I feel like he genuinely likes this group of players and has always admired this group of players. I sense that he's really enjoying getting to know us and work with us, and the players feel the same way.'

Eric was speaking at the annual One Hotspur Junior Christmas Party, held at the Club's Training Centre