Actor Hugh Jackman has been named as the most successful living Australian, topping a new list of public figures.

Australian company Bastion Collective conducted the research, which quizzed almost 1000 people as to who they admire.

Reported in the Sun Herald, the Wolverine actor was the obvious front-runner, with one in five nominating him at the top of their list.

Most admired! Hugh Jackman, 51, (pictured) has topped a controversial list of Australia's 'most successful' living people, according to marketing research firm Bastion Collective

Gina Rinehart came in at number two, while ex-PM John Howard and Chris Hemsworth were equal third.

Bastion Collective CEO Jack Watts said part of Hugh's appeal was his 'wholesome' public image.

'He really presents as extremely professionals, wholesome, with good Aussie values and widely respected as a good family man,' he said.

Equal third: Hollywood actor Chris Hemsworth (here with wife Elsa Pataky) came in third, and was tied with Australia's former PM John Howard

Australians still have a soft spot for Grease actress turned medicinal cannabis campaigner Olivia Newton-John, who came in fourth.

Meanwhile, billionaire James Packer and Atlassian co-founder Mike Cannon-Brookes, came in fifth and sixth respectively.

Oscar winner and Big Little Lies actress Nicole Kidman came in seventh, with her being in the global public eye for the past 20 years.

Most successful living Australians 1. Hugh Jackman 2. Gina Rinehart 3. John Howard 4. Chris Hemsworth (tied = 3) 5. Mike Cannon-Brookes 6. James Packer 7. Olivia Newton-John 8. Julia Gillard 9. Nicole Kidman 10. Cathy Freeman 11. Kylie Minogue 12. Ita Buttrose 13. Cate Blanchett 14. Waleed Aly 15. Margot Robbie 16. Greg Norman 17. Paul Hogan 18. Miranda Kerr 19. Daniel Ricardo 20. Janine Allis Source: Bastion Collective

Australia's first female Prime Minister Julia Gillard came in eighth, while indigenous Olympic Gold Medalist Cathy Freeman rounded out the first ten people on the list.

Big names that didn't make the top ten include megastar Kylie Minogue, who clocked in at 11th place, and Oscar-winner Cate Blanchett, who ranked 13th.

Boost Juice queen turned Survivor star Janine Allis was shown to be highly respected for her business acumen, ranking at 20th place.

Still the one! Australians still have a soft spot for Grease actress turned medicinal cannabis campaigner Olivia Newton-John (L), who came in fourth. Here with John Travolta (R)

The mother-of-four said the acknowledgement was humbling, but cemented the old adage about people only seeing your successes.

'People only see your success, they don't see all your failures,' she said.

She went on to say it was important for Australian businesses to be innovative.