Love Island's Molly-Mae Hague cheered from the sidelines as her boxer beau Tommy Fury defeated his opponent in a little over a minute.

The reality star, 20, watched Tommy- the half-brother of heavyweight champion Tyson- defeat Polish fighter Prezmyslaw Binienda at London's Copper Box Arena on Saturday.

Molly-Mae, who met Tommy, also 20, on Love Island, was seen clapping her hands from her ringside seat and cheering as her boyfriend finished off Binidenda in 62 seconds.

Impressive: Molly-Mae Hague, 20, cheered from the sidelines as her boxer beau Tommy Fury, 20, defeated his opponent in a little over a minute

After his victory, which made his professional record three wins out of three, Tommy paid tribute to his 'soulmate' Molly.

He said: 'This year I have gained a lovely soulmate in Molly and I've ended the year on a big knockout. More of the same in 2020.'

The boxer also had warm words for his father Peter, saying: 'I would not be here without this man to my left, my dad. It's father and son and we are going to the top.'

Rippling: The reality star watched Tommy, the half-brother of heavyweight champion Tyson, defeat Polish fighter Prezmyslaw Binienda at London's Copper Box Arena on Saturday

Over the moon: The reality star, who met Tommy on Love Island was seen clapping her hands from her ringside seat as her boyfriend finished off Binidenda in 62 seconds

Stylish: Molly stood out from the crowd with a dash of bright red lipstick as she watched Tommy knock out his opponent

Molly stood out from the crowd with a dash of bright red lipstick and looked apprehensive as she watched Tommy knock out his opponent.

The defeat marks a 26th straight professional loss for Binienda and the Polish fighter never looked like overcoming his more powerful rival.

Prior to the fight, Molly was seen posing alongside beau Tommy and his coaching team, including his father John, at the weigh in on Friday, with the boxer looking confident ahead of his return to the ring.

I'm the best: After his victory, which made his professional record three wins out of three, Tommy paid tribute to his 'soulmate' Molly

Packing a punch: The defeat marks a 26th straight professional loss for Binienda and the Polish fighter never looked like overcoming his more powerful rival

Devoted: After his victory, which made his professional record three wins out of three, Tommy paid tribute to his 'soulmate' Molly

Bright: The star clapped from her ringside seat as Tommy maintained his 100 per cent win record

Biggest fan: Molly-Mae looked tense as she watched the match unfold

Tommy's return to the ring comes after his last fight back in March, before he appeared on the 2019 series of ITV2 dating show Love Island, where he and Molly finished in second place.

Despite starring on a reality show, Tommy has assured fans he wants to be known first and foremost as a boxer.

Speaking to BBC Sport, he shared his hopes of becoming a world champion and said: 'The only thing I want in life is to be world champion. I am not interested in money, fame or anything else.'

Confident: Tommy oozed confidence as he posed with Molly and his coaching team including his dad John Fury (pictured right) ahead of his fight on Saturday

Flaunting it: Tommy was seen displaying his ripped physique as he stepped onto the scales

Addressing his break from boxing to star on Love Island, Tommy added: 'Taking a few months out isn't really going to do me the most harm. It was something I wanted to do.

'It's paid off massively but I don't want anyone to forget what I did before that. I am not a reality TV person, I did it for a couple of months. I am a boxer, 100 per cent.'

While Tommy has been focusing on his boxing career, Molly has used her new found fame to further her position as a social media influencer.

Since leaving the villa, fans have seen her partner with fashion brand Pretty Little Thing and recently launched her own fake tan line called Filter by Molly Mae.