Australian actress Naomi Watts has flown home for the Christmas holidays.

She jetted into Sydney airport on Sunday morning with her two sons: Alexander, 12, and Samuel, 11.

The Mulholland Drive star, 51, looked casual-yet-chic in a black blazer, button-up shirt and light-wash jeans.

Back for the holidays! Naomi Watts jetted back into Sydney on Sunday with sons Alexander, 12, and Samuel, 11, for the Christmas period

Naomi shares her two children with her ex-partner Liev Schreiber, 52, whom she split with in 2016 after 11 years together.

Appearing as an attempt to go incognito, Naomi wore a panama hat and pink sunglasses indoors.

However, it was clear to other travelers that she was important as she and her two boys were escorted through the terminal by airport staff.

Watts going on here? Appearing as an attempt to go incognito, Naomi wore a panama hat and pink sunglasses indoors

Family life: Naomi shares her two children with her ex-partner Liev Schreiber, 52, whom she split with in 2016 after 11 years together

Not fooling anyone! However, it was clear to other travelers that she was important as she and her two boys were escorted through the terminal by airport staff

All smiles: Keeping a firm grip of her passports in hand as they exited immigration, Naomi appeared happy to be back on home soil

The King Kong star wheeled one piece of her luggage as she wrapped two other bags over her lithe frame.

Keeping a firm grip of her passports in hand as they exited immigration, Naomi appeared happy to be back on home soil.

She is enjoying a well-deserved break after a busy few months filming scenes for the axed Game of Thrones prequel, Bloodmoon.

Time to relax: Naomi is enjoying a well-deserved break after a busy few months filming scenes for the axed Game of Thrones prequel, Bloodmoon

Keeping it casual: Naomi's sons were dressed down for the long-haul journey

Cosy: Alexander wore a light blue hooded jumper, grey trackpants and white sneakers

Naomi's sons were dressed casually for the long-haul journey.

Alexander wore a light blue hooded jumper, grey trackpants and white sneakers.

Meanwhile, Samuel, who goes by his middle name Kai, wore a loose-fitting dark grey jumpsuit with white sneakers.

Her two sons were the spitting image of their famous mother, from their facial features to their light locks.

No special treatment: The King Kong star wheeled one piece of her luggage as she wrapped two other bags over her lithe frame

Just like mum! Samuel, who goes by his middle name Kai, wore a loose-fitting dark grey jumpsuit with white sneakers with his light hair worn down

Naomi, who journeyed in first class, shared a photo from the inside of her cabin during her lengthy flight.

'Can’t get this down fast enough... and it ain’t apple juice,' she wrote, holding a Champagne flute to her lips.

'Airport chaos was real today. But i have to say, people were kind beyond words... so grateful and seriously moved!! #tistheseason merry, merry and happy holidays to all xxx,' Naomi added.

'Airport chaos was real today': Naomi thanked airport staff for helping her family during the busy period

Where are they headed? It's unclear where the actress and her children will be staying, but she often spends time with her brother, Ben Watts, when she visits her native country

Last Christmas, Naomi flew into Australia via Brisbane airport.

It's unclear where the actress and her children will be staying, but she often spends time with her brother, Ben Watts, when she visits her native country.

Ben, who is a professional photographer, resides in Byron Bay on the the New South Wales coast.

Flying solo: It's believed Naomi's ex-partner Liev will be remaining in the US for the Christmas period

'Routine is a big part of it': The former couple have remained on friendly terms and are committed to co-parenting their two children

It's believed Naomi's ex-partner Liev will be remaining in the US for the Christmas period.

Despite their breakup, the former couple have remained on friendly terms and are committed to co-parenting their two children.

'Routine is a big part of it,' she told the Australian Womens Weekly last year.

'Obviously Liev and I are actors - there is some moving - but we've really tried to keep the boys in the same school. Give them structure, boundaries.'

Naomi has since been romantically linked to her Gypsy co-star Billy Crudup while Liev is rumoured to be dating Miss South Dakota, Taylor Niesen, 26.