Like his good friend and international team-mate Vincent Kompany, Watford's Christian Kabasele came to the Premier League via Belgium of Congolese descent.

In Kabasele's case, he was just eight months old when the family home in Congo's second city Lubumbashi was robbed, persuading them to uproot first to Brussels, then Liege.

'The situation in Congo wasn't good at the time. A lot of violence,' explains the 28-year-old. 'It was a difficult choice for my parents, they had to leave their own parents behind, but they made the sacrifice for our future. I only know my grandparents from the telephone but it's a story many African players in Europe would understand.

Christian Kabasele's journey to the Premier League was not easy, from Congo via Belgium

The Watford defender has gone from fighting hardship to fighting Premier League relegation

'When I first played for Belgium and met Vincent, it was like we'd known each other for many years. We speak about our histories.'

Beating hardship has helped Kabasele cope with the pressure of a relegation battle. Watford entertain Manchester United today bottom of the Premier League with only nine points. Their last league win at Vicarage Road was back in April and this season they've had more managers than wins (4-3).

Kabasele, an imposing central defender linked with Leicester City last summer, has spoken out against online racism abuse in the past and is equally forthright about the predicament The Hornets are in - only six months after they walked out at Wembley for an FA Cup Final against Manchester City.

'It is really bad. I think there are no other words when you see the quality of our squad and we are still last place in December,' he acknowledges.

'When you see the numbers, it is quite simple. We haven't scored a lot. We concede too much. We've been good at the back in some games but didn't get goals. When we score, we let in three or four.

'I don't think there's been a Premier League team with nine points at this stage who has stayed up, but it's an exciting challenge. We need the spirit and quality we showed in our last two games against Crystal Palace and Liverpool. If we'd done that all season, we'd be higher in the league, but this is the situation.'

The improved displays, if not results, have come about since the appointment of Nigel Pearson, who oversaw Leicester City's great escape in 2015. Kabasele has already heard team talks from Javi Gracia, Quique Sanchez Flores and Hayden Mullins this season but says

The Belgian international has admitted that his club fight an uphill battle for this season

Pearson, manager No4, has made an impact by getting in among the players at the training ground.

'We see him everywhere. Sometimes we are joking about it in the squad,' he smiles. 'In the physio room, in the office, in the canteen, many times. He pays attention to everybody and that is the main difference to the other managers.

'Last week, it was freezing and I had a snood on in the physio room. I didn't expect the manager's voice suddenly behind me "Are you cold?" It was funny because I didn't know he was there, or when he came in. He surprised me - you never know when he will show up.

Watford find themselves with only 9 points as we approach the halfway mark for the season

'He has made a difference on the pitch as well. He wants us to give everything to recover our shape quickly and trusts our ability to hurt the opponent with our speed. Javi Gracia was more about with the ball, Quique defensive ability. But with this manager, it is a mix.

'We need to believe in ourselves going forward because when you have the pace of Gerard Deulofeu and Ismaila Sarr, and Troy Deeney in the box to finish, you should be confident.'

Watford's record 6-0 cup final defeat against City was a humiliation that has carried into this season. But Kabasele, on the bench that torrid afternoon, doesn't blame one result for the fall-off. 'We lost our last four league games as well,' he notes. 'When Brighton beat us 3-0 in the first game this season, it was really painful and continued the negative spiral.'

It comes as a surprise to Kabasele, as the club enjoyed a fantastic campaign last season

Kabasele insists that recent performances against Liverpool and Palace have provided hope

Neither does he have time for the theory that Watford's multi-national squad has drained team spirit.

'I would say, sorry for the word, that it's bullshit. We had the club's best Premier League season and reached a cup final with almost the same players. We live well together every day. It's not a question of a divided dressing-room. That's not why we are bottom.'

At Watford's Christmas party on Thursday, Kabasele sat next to £25million French-speaking Senegal forward Sarr, helping him get involved with the squad as Kompany once helped him. But it's not a foreigner thing. He is an equally big fan of English goalkeeper Ben Foster, who recently made headlines by stopping his car to save an 80-year-old Watford fan who had fallen in a ditch. 'Ben is one of the nicest people I've met in football and I could tell that straight away,' he says..

The 28-year-old says he has a close bond with former Manchester City man Vincent Kompany

Kabasele opted for salmon rather than turkey at the party. One of his rules is to eat meat only once a day and his wife was making chicken in the evening. He'll need his strength against Marcus Rashford and Anthony Martial in front of a full house of 22,000 capacity in Hertfordshire.

'I watched United beat City in the Manchester derby,' he says. 'Even if they maybe aren't the United of old, you need to respect them. They have talented players and if you catch them on a good day, it's difficult. But we also need to make them feel it won't be easy.

'In our situation, even a draw is not that positive. We haven't won at home this season and we can not go into 2020 without that record.'

With winnable fixtures against promoted teams Sheffield United and Aston Villa up next, a result against United could create real momentum to help Watford climb towards safety.

Kabasele hopes new manager Nigel Pearson can turn things around for the Hornets in 2020

Kabasele is out of contract in the summer but is in talks about a new one. 'If I was worried about Watford and the club or my situation, I would stop the negotiations,' he reveals. 'But we are close to finishing the deal. I want to stay with Watford in the Premier League.'

Next summer he has an outside chance of being part of Belgium's star-studded squad for Euro 2020. He went to the European Championships four years ago and even though he hasn't been included by Roberto Martinez recently, he sees a comeback as possible.

Playing with big stars like Romelu Lukaku and Eden Hazard is a huge carrot even if his debut against Holland in 2016 was a bit disconcerting. 'I wasn't meant to be playing but just before kick off Roberto Martinez told me I had two minutes to get changed because Vincent Kompany had a problem.

'I didn't have time to get nervous which was good but when I sat in the dressing-room, Thomas Meunier of PSG was next to me and asked what I was doing, because I wasn't meant to be there. I had to explain there had been a late change!'

Showing you're never too old to learn, Kabasele has even taken some extra defensive tips in the past fortnight from the omnipresent Pearson, a formidable centre-back at Sheffield Wednesday in his own playing days.

'He has given me some tips about the body shape and body language,' says Kabasele. 'I don't mind. If I had nothing to learn I would be a manager myself! I think you should take advice - you can improve until the end of your career.'