She announced her separation from her deported husband Joe Giudice earlier this week.

Now Teresa Giudice, 47, and her old Real Housewives Of New Jersey co-star Carolina Manzo, 58, seem to have settled some of their differences after traveling to Los Angeles to film a new video project.

The two reality stars were spotted looking totally polite and pleasant in an Instagram video posted to a fan account on Friday.

Reunited: Teresa Giudice, 47, and her old Real Housewives Of New Jersey co-star Carolina Manzo, 58, seem to have settled some of their differences after traveling to Los Angeles this weekend to film a new video project

The short clip appears to have been taken from a cellphone camera pointed at a video monitor on the set of Teresa and Caroline's new project.

The reality stars were seated at a round dining table and dressed in stunning off-the-shoulder dresses that blended in with the all-red set.

The two don't appear to speak to each other, though Caroline turns to her old co-star and flashes a broad smile, which she only partially returns before turning back to the camera with a sheepish grin.

Secret video: The short clip appears to have been taken from a cellphone camera pointed at a video monitor on the set of Teresa and Caroline's new project

Women in red: The reality stars were seated at a round dining table and dressed in stunning off-the-shoulder dresses that blended in with the all-red set

Though they seemed plenty relaxed, the person taking the video was far more excited.

'Housewives!' whisper–shouts a woman, who sounds as if she's taking the video. 'New Jersey!' she continues.

'What do they do?' asks the somewhat less enthusiastic man next to her.

OGs: Teresa and Caroline were founding members of The Real Housewives Of New Jersey when it began airing a decade ago

Teresa and Caroline were founding members of The Real Housewives Of New Jersey when it began airing a decade ago.

Caroline stayed on the series through season five, before leaving for her own spin-off show Manzo'd With Children.

Teresa, meanwhile, has remained on the show without interruption, despite serving 11 months on a 15 month sentence for fraud.

She and her husband Joe Giudice, 47, received a 39-count indictment in 2013 that included charges for bankruptcy fraud, conspiracy to commit multiple other types of fraud, and making false statements on a loan application.

Both were convicted, and Teresa began her sentence first in 2015 so that one parent could remain with their children throughout the ordeal.

Accusing: Teresa accused Caroline of ratting on her to the feds, resulting in her and her husband Joe Giudice going to prison for fraud; pictured in 2016

The couple married in 1999 and have four daughters: Gia, 18, Gabriella, 15, Milania, 14, and Audriana, 10.

Joe, who was born in Italy, had been living in the US illegally throughout his life and was deported this year, precipitating their separation.

Along the way, Teresa became convinced that Caroline was responsible for informing the feds about her crimes.

Pointing fingers: 'It’s just so sad, I guess, because she's lived that crooked life,' Teresa said in an interview with her husband and Andy Cohen

'It’s just so sad, I guess, because she's lived that crooked life,' Teresa said in an interview with her husband and Andy Cohen.

'I’ve never lived that crooked life and I guess she has and who she comes from, and where she came from. … How could she predict that [we were headed for legal trouble]? Could she have anything to do with what happened to Joe and I? Is she a rat?

'By her saying that, why did she say that? Why? Those words would never come out of my life regarding anybody. Maybe [she called the feds on us]. You never know. Why would she predict those words?' she questioned, though Caroline wasn't accused of any crimes and both Teresa and her husband were convicted in federal court.

Ratted out: 'I’ve never lived that crooked life and I guess she has and who she comes from, and where she came from. … How could she predict that [we were headed for legal trouble]? Could she have anything to do with what happened to Joe and I? Is she a rat?' Teresa continued

Friendly: Despite her split with Caroline, Teresa has maintained cordial relations with her sister Dina Manzo, who was also with the series from the start and departed after season six

Caroline didn't cop to Teresa accusations, and Teresa renewed her claims during a November stop on Andy Cohen's Watch What Happens Live.

'We did have great times and shame on her for the way it ended,' she said. 'She’s the one who went against me, I didn’t go against her.'

It's not clear what project the two are now working on in LA, whether it's Housewives-adjacent or a separate project.

Despite her split with Caroline, Teresa has maintained cordial relations with her sister Dina Manzo, who was also with the series from the start and departed after season six.

The fitness fan shared a photo of her with Dina and Rosana Costa on Friday after arriving on the West Coast.