Frank Lampard has been coy about copying Jose Mourinho too much, but as Apprentice comes up against Sorcerer at Tottenham, Chelsea's new manager admits Mourinho's man-management is one thing he strives to emulate.

When Lampard returned to Stamford Bridge in the summer, he was unable to make signings because of the club's transfer ban and decided to invest in youth by promoting Tammy Abraham, Mason Mount and Fikayo Tomori to the first team.

And he admits his relationship with those youngsters has been instrumental to Chelsea's early season success - and he followed the template laid down by Mourinho when he became Lampard's boss at the Bridge 15 years ago.

Frnak Lampard (L) and Jose Mourinho had a close relationship as player and coach at Chelsea

Lampard has great faith in (l-r) Mason Mount, Tammy Abraham and Fikayo Tomori to grow

'When Jose first came to Chelsea, he was the first manager on a day-to-day basis who made me feel very close to him, working on the mental side, giving me that confidence,' said Lampard.

'You form a bond. Working with the younger players now, it's my duty to forge that same bond with them. They're starting their journeys, their careers, and need to look up to me and the staff. I love all the young boys here. They're good lads, really good players.'

Mourinho famously walked in on Lampard in the showers at Chelsea training back in 2004 to tell him the former West Ham man he was the best midfielder in the world, which did wonders for the player's confidence.

Lampard went on to become the club's top scorer with 19 goals as they won the Premier League for the first time and reached the semi-final of the Champions League, and the player was voted Footballer of the Year.

And he gives credit to Mourinho for inspiring him with his surprise announcement in the shower block. 'It felt instinctive. You'd have to ask him if it was planned. But it made me feel great. Moments like that… it doesn't need just to be best player in the world, but positive things. And he wasn't urging me to go out and start doing stepovers and so on. It was about drive, drive, drive and be that, and try and win titles. Now I try and do that with my players.'

The Chelsea boss has credited Mourinho with helping learn about man management

Lampard says he learned a lot about man-management from Mourinho's attention to detail with his players, on a personal level. 'It's a constant thing. How you are with them every day. How much you want to work with them on the training ground. How much you delve into their personal lives, and how they interact with you. That's huge.'

But he also realises a manager has to strike the balance between getting close to his players and keeping some distance, as their boss.

'That's the line you have to get right, and I'd love to think I do it. You'll have to ask the players. I'm not hanging about with them playing PlayStation or stuff!'

Lampard is one of the new breed of former superstars turned manager, along with the likes of Ole Gunnar Solskjear and Steven Gerrard, whose closeness in age to the players is perhaps an advantage that older managers do not have. But Lampard doers not see it as such, and certainly Mourinho appears to be getting the best out of young players such as Dele Alli now he has taken over at Tottenham.

'If you've got it, you've got it. You don't lose it as you get older,' said Lampard. 'If you've just finished like me, you're more aware of social media, things which change very quickly with time. Maybe it's slightly easier for a young manager to be aware of it. I was aware of it as a player. But if you've got it personality-wise, you've got it.'

Lampard will be looking to defeat his old boss when Chelsea visit Tottenham on Sunday

Mourinho took over from Mauricio Pochettino last month as Tottenham chairman Daniel Levy looked for a man to take Spurs to the next level and win titles, the way Mourinho did at Chelsea, who had not won the league for 50 years before he arrived.

While acknowledging Chelsea's debt to Mourinho, Lampard also knows that the club's transformation was funded by the billions of Roman Abramovich, who had bought the club a year before hiring the Portuguese manager. Asked if Chelsea would have established themselves among the world's top clubs without Mourinho, Lampard said: 'It's hard to say for sure.

'Chelsea wouldn't exist (as a top club) without Roman Abramovich, for sure. Jose Mourinho played a big part. He's been successful twice here at Chelsea now. Who knows, though?'

Mourinho's influence remained long after he left though as Lampard conceded: 'Once he left, the legacy was up to the players. It was a strong group, with different managers pushing that agenda.

'The credit for the longevity and how we won things afterwards goes down to the core of the squads we had at the time, and our will to win. His (Mourinho's) imprint on the squad was huge. He took a very talented team who had come second, bursting to win the title, and had a massive effect on that, winning successive titles. As manager he took huge credit.'

And as an example of young players developing under his tutelage, Lampard looks at Tomori, the defender he had on loan at Derby last season, before being successfully integrated at Chelsea and has just signed a new contract. 'He is a fantastic player and deserves his new contract,' said Lampard.

'It's great the young players are, one by one, signing new deals. Fikayo is possibly my favourite example of that. At Derby, at first, he didn't have the buzz that Mason and Tammy had. He's worked to get to this position. He's gone under the radar, but maybe defenders do.'

And with a nod to his famous father Frank Lampard senior, who was a solid but unspectacular full-back at West Ham in the 1970s and 80s, playing just twice for England, he added with a smile: 'My Dad always told me not to be a left-back!'