A deputy in Georgia got caught up in an unexpected car chase when he had to stop his own runaway police car.

The funny video was shared in the 'Idiots In Cars' group on Reddit by user AristonD on Friday.

According to the video, a deputy in Cherokee County exited his vehicle without placing it in park.

A deputy in Cherokee County, Georgia, chased down a runaway patrol car after he forgot to place the vehicle in park

Cellphone footage shows the deputy walking alongside the patrol car as it slowly rolls off the road and onto a nearby plot of grass.

It appears the deputy was responding to a call as the patrol car's lights are flashing while the deputy struggles to unlatch the driver's seat door.

Despite the deputy and a civilian's attempts to stop the rolling vehicle, it continues into a ditch and narrowly misses a section of tall shrubs.

In a completely calm demeanor, the deputy waits for the car to halt and then quickly hops inside.

The deputy tries to unlatch the patrol car's front door, but is unable to as it rolls off the road and into a shallow ditch

The patrol car narrowly misses a section of tall shrubbery and appears to escape the incident undamaged

Luckily, the incident happened on a quiet road and no one was injured in the incident.

Several Reddit users have commented on the post, making jokes about the deputy's runaway car.

'How's it going, officer? Not bad, just takin the car out for a walk. You?' one user wrote.

Another person said: 'I hope he wrote himself a ticket for failure to maintain control of the vehicle.'

The cellphone footage was shared in the 'Idiots In Cars' Reddit group on Friday and has already gained more than 43,000 reactions

Others sympathized with the deputy and shared stories of their own car blunders.

'Every cop has done something like this, if they admit it or not is up to them,' one person wrote.

'I locked my keys in my car during a downpour after I let a caller for a disturbance chill out in the back. Half hour seemed like days.'

Another person wrote: 'I've done this to my patrol car before, thankfully I was able to correct the issue before before causing damage. Had a good laugh. Guy who ran the red light did too. Gave him a warning.'

One person who identified as paramedic said he almost got hit with his own ambulance because he forgot to put the vehicle in park.

Several users commented on the video to crack jokes about the runaway police car and share personal stories about their own driving mishaps

They said: 'Did this once as a paramedic in an ambulance. First day wearing a bullet proof (yeah, I know not proof...) vest. Got to the scene, forgot to put ambulance in park, forgot to take seat belt off because you can't feel it with the vest, nearly got run over by my own ambulance.'

A user pointed out that this accident happens quite often and the deputy may have been driving a different patrol car.

'Would presume this happens more often due to the fact they drive different patrol cars,' they said.

'The occasional driving of that particular car is probably enough to get a few more pros like this in a jam.'

Since the video was shared on Friday, has garnered more than 43,000 reactions and 980 comments.