A CSX freight train derailed off a West Virginian bridge while crossing the Potomac River, causing a significant road blockage and delays.

Washington County's Public Relations and National Park Service report that the crash took place on early Saturday morning in Harpers Ferry at around 3am.

Several train cars fell into the water and Sandy Hook Road was closed immediately but there was no immediate danger to the public.

Scroll down for video

Washington County's Public Relations and National Park Service report that the crash took place on early Saturday morning in Harpers Ferry at around 3am

#Breaking Video: CSX FREIGHT TRAIN DERAILMENT in #HarpersFerry on the Winchester & Potomac Railroad Bridge @ 3:30AM, NO injuries, locomotive remained on track. Recovery crews are working to secure dangling train cars #BreakingNews @nbcwashington @TomLynch_ pic.twitter.com/fhflDZNb9f — Brad Freitas (@Chopper4Brad) December 21, 2019

It is currently unknown as to what caused the derailment.

'Washington County Emergency Management is closely monitoring the scene and reports no injuries, no spills, no hazardous materials and no immediate danger to the public,' the release from Washington County's Public Relations and Marketing Department stated.

No was was injured in the derailment, the National Park Service said in a release.

The agency reports that the derailment affects access to parts of Harpers Ferry National Park, Chesapeake & Ohio National Historical Park, and the Appalachian National Scenic Trail.

It is currently unknown as to what caused the derailment

No was was injured in the derailment and no hazardous materials leaked into the river

At Harpers Ferry National Historical Park, The Point and John's Brown Fort are temporarily closed because of their proximity to the train.

These areas will reopen once the NPS performs a cleanup and assessment of the area, they said in the release.

The NPS said that the footbridge attached to the CSX bridge is indefinitely closed.

While the empty grain cars did derail off the track, the locomotive managed to stay on the track, CSX explained to NBC Washington.