She revealed in her Vogue Arabia interview that she wanted to give her four kids an 'unforgettable childhood.'

And Kim Kardashian and Kanye West added another experience to the list on Saturday, seen taking their two eldest children, North, six, and Saint, four, to the Nutcracker in New York.

The 39-year-old beauty rocked a stellar ensemble while out and about, complete with a pair of purple pointed-toe heels.

Scroll down for video

Stellar look: Kim Kardashian rocked PVC for an outing to the Nutcracker in NYC with Kanye West and their two eldest children, North, six, and Saint, four on Saturday

Kim stunned in a matte PVC style bodysuit that featured a high neck design.

She teamed the look with straight legged trousers of the same material that hugged her curves before flaring out.

The law student kept warm with a silver insulated puffer jacket and completed her look with bright purple heeled boots.

Unique look: Kim stunned in a matte PVC style bodysuit that featured a high neck design

Doting dad: Kanye walked behind his wife with son Saint on his shoulders

Kim styled her dark hair out into natural waves and accessorised with a pair of shades over her eyes.

The beauty sported a full face of glam with contoured cheekbones, a sweep of blush and a plump nude pout.

Kanye walked behind his wife with son Saint on his shoulders.

The rapper braved the New York chill in a wine colored sweater and black trousers for the family outing.

Beauty queen: Kim styled her dark hair out into natural waves and accessorised with a pair of shades over her eyes

Just like mom! North was very much the min-me of Kim, wearing an alternate version of her mom's PVC look

North was very much the min-me of Kim, wearing an alternate version of her mom's PVC look.

The six-year-old had her hair styled into pigtails and carried an electronic device with her as she exited the arena in New York.

Brother Saint, who celebrated his fourth birthday last week, was dressed in a fluro green tracksuit set making it hard to miss him.

Kim and Kanye are also parents to daughter Chicago, one, and son, Psalm, six-months, who were not present with them on Saturday.

Bright and beaming! Brother Saint, who celebrated his fourth birthday last week, was dressed in a fluro green tracksuit set making it hard to miss him

Stayed at home: Kim and Kanye are also parents to daughter Chicago, one, and son, Psalm, six-months, who were not present with them on Saturday

Food time: The family were later seen heading out to dinner in New York

Girl's taking the lead: Kim and North left the restaurant first with Kanye and Saint following

The family outing comes after Kim and Kanye discussed during their joint interview for Vogue Arabia earlier in the year about giving their children as much opportunities and experiences as possible.

'I often reflect on the most amazing childhood I had,' Kim told Kanye as he interviewed her.

'I want them to always be able to look back and say, "I had the most awesome life. My parents gave me all of the tools to be great and happy in life. They were fun, good, awesome parents and they were always there".'

Hope for her children: 'I want them to always be able to look back and say, "I had the most awesome life. My parents gave me all of the tools to be great and happy in life. They were fun, good, awesome parents and they were always there"'