Taylah Roberts has quit the modelling industry, six years after she found fame on season eight of Australia's Next Top Model in 2013.

In an interview with Sunday Confidential, the outspoken beauty, 24, revealed she is glad to leave the modelling world behind, after years of battling with her body image.

'When I first moved to Sydney I had just signed with my agency and was super happy about it, but from the day I walked in there, I was always being told I had to lose weight,' she said.

'I was always being told I had to lose weight': ANTM star Taylah Roberts, 24, has QUIT the modelling industry after years of battling with her body image

Describing the ordeal as 'brutal', Taylah reveled that she was expected to follow an exercise regimen that banned muscle-building exercises such as squats and lunges.

Instead, Taylah claims she could only do 'soft-sand running'.

Of her diet, Taylah revealed: '[The agency] said 'don't drink and eat these very strict certain foods, drink lots of water and tea and make sure you only have salads for dinner''.

Struggles: Describing the ordeal as 'brutal', Taylah reveled that she was expected to follow an exercise regimen that banned muscle-building exercises such as squats and lunges

Having finally turned her back on the industry, Taylah says she wants to use her experience to warn the next generation about the dangers of the modelling world.

'I want to start a program where I go to schools and teach young women and boys about the culture and how toxic it is,' she told the publication.

In May this year, the catwalk star shared a raw post on Instagram detailing her struggles with body image.

'I'll take my health, happiness and my size 12/14 a** over EVER feeling like that again!' In May this year, the catwalk star shared a raw post on Instagram detailing her struggles with body image

Sharing a throwback photo of herself looking extremely slender side-by-side with a photo of herself at a higher weight, Taylah wrote, in part: 'All I see in the photo on the left is sadness, exhaustion, insecurity and lack of worth beyond size'.

She later added: 'After years of feeling unworthy and left with a lot of work to do to get to the place I am now (pictured on the right) I'll take my health, happiness and my size 12/14 a** over EVER feeling like that again!'

A front runner on cycle eight of Australia's Next Top Model, Taylah was disqualified after a televised incident with fellow contestant, Ashley Pogmore.

'Years of feeling unworthy': Taylah said she often feared measuring herself and put pressure on herself to stay thin

Taylah lunged at Ashley during an art class and threatened to strangle her with her hands, before choking her in a joke that went too far.

In an interview with Sydney's 2Day FM, she said she accepted her fate to be kicked off the show: 'I think that I deserved it. Everybody makes mistakes and it was unfortunate that mine was on national TV.'

If you or anyone you know is suffering, call Lifeline on 13 11 14