Advertisement

Venice is enduring yet more flooding today just weeks after high tides caused a billion euros of damage in the historic city.

Tourists could be seen carrying their suitcases aloft and wading through water in the Italian city's famous St Mark's square after an 'exceptional' 1.44m (4ft 9ins) peak tide this morning.

The lagoon city is still counting the damage caused by the 1.87-meter-high tide on November 12, the highest in more than 50 years.

Venice is enduring yet more flooding today just weeks after high tides caused a billion euros of damage in the historic city

Tourists could be seen carrying their suitcases aloft and wading through water in the Italian city's famous St Mark's square (pictured) after an 'exceptional' 1.44m (4ft 9ins) peak tide this morning

The lagoon city is still counting the damage caused by the 1.87-meter-high tide on November 12, the highest in more than 50 years. Pictured: A woman carrying her suitcase through flood water near the Rialto Bridge, in Venice this morning

The city mayor said total damages are estimated at around 1 billion euros, with houses, businesses and historic monuments severely hit.

'I've been living here for more than 50 years and never saw anything like that,' said Toto Bergamo Rossi, director of the cultural foundation Venetian Heritage. 'It's more than a month now, this is a prolonged emergency.'

Last week, the city's hoteliers association said fears of more unprecedented flooding in Venice has brought hotel reservations down by 45 percent, the city's hoteliers association said Friday.

The northern Italian city of canals was hit by the highest tide in more than 50 years, with tourists wading through flooded streets to seek shelter as a fierce wind whipped up waves in St. Mark's Square.

The exceptionally intense 'acqua alta,' or high waters, peaked at 1.87 metres (six feet) on November 12, according to the tide monitoring centre.

A woman wades through water during a high tide in St. Mark's Square, in Venice, Italy this morning

People stand on a trestle bridge as others wade through water during a high tide in Venice today

A shop keeper checks the damage in his store after it was swamped by flood water this morning

'Since mid-November, following a historic flood, we have seen an unprecedented drop (in the number) of bookings. This did not even happen after the attacks on the Twin Towers,' said Vittorio Bonacini, chief of the Association of Venetian Hoteliers during a press conference.

'We recorded a peak of 45 percent cancellations (in the last 30 days) and had to cancel events, conferences and major initiatives planned for next year,' he added.

Bonacini said people's understanding of the situation on the ground was far from reality.

'We have received worried calls from the United States, asking us if a child one and a half meters tall (five feet) could visit without being in danger.'

Cafè tables and chairs are shown submerged in water after the city was once again hit by an 'exceptional' high tide

Trestle bridges, designed to help people walk above flood water during high tides, are seen piled up in St. Mark's Square this morning

This was the scene as flood water swamped the streets once again in the historic Italian city

But he said Venice is more than a meter above sea level and that when people speak of a 1.30 metre high tide, the reality is the water level is only 30 centimetres and only in some parts of the old city.

He also said the historic high tide lasted only an hour and a half, before the situation normalised within in a few hours.

According to the association, more than 31 million tourists visited Venice last year - but 20 million spent only one day there and only 11.5 million stayed in the 274 hotels in the historic centre.