Defensive errors were largely to blame for the Newcastle Jets' 6-2 drubbing at the hands of Perth Glory on Saturday night, according to coach Ernie Merrick.

The West Australian side were clinical in front of goal as Diego Castro and Bruno Fornaroli each bagged a double, with Neil Kilkenny and Joel Chianese also finding the net.

Nikolai Topor-Stanley and Steve Ugarkovic were the Jets' goalscorers but their defensive frailties proved costly.

"Too many mistakes that we're punished badly for and we just have to have a big, long think about it for next week because we play Brisbane Roar who are on the same points as us," said Merrick.

"We're two games behind some teams but we've got to score goals and we've got to not concede goals the way we're doing."

Panamanian striker Abdiel Arroyo and captain Nigel Boogard are currently sidelined with hamstring and groin issues respectively, while ex-Premier League playmaker Wes Hoolahan has yet to feature this season due to an ankle injury.

However, Merrick doesn't anticipate much activity once the transfer window opens next month.

"We can't afford really to bring anyone else in that's the quality we want," he said.

"I'd rather give the youngsters a go and build players for the future."

Merrick's inexperienced side was carved open time and time again by Glory who scored six goals in an A-League match for the first time in almost four years.

Newcastle now have the worst defensive record in the competition, with 10 of the 20 goals they have conceded coming in the last two games.

Goals have been a lot easier to come by for the reigning Premiers who have found their feet in recent weeks and have now won three games on the bounce.

"Today we had a range of different types of goals, long may that continue," said Glory coach Tony Popovic.

"We want to see more of that, and we want to keep improving defensively as a team."

The win moves Perth up to fourth on the ladder ahead of their away game against the Central Coast Mariners on New Year's Eve.