Toxic chemicals which could cause children to become infertile have been found in toys on sale ahead of Christmas.

Trading standards officers from Nottingham City Council discovered the poison in a batch of cheap dolls which

Nottingham City Trading Standards have sounded a warning about unsafe toys that have been on sale ahead of Christmas.

Nottingham Trading Standards have seized a batch of poor quality dolls containing dangerous chemicals which could make children infertile

The dolls were imported from China and have been on sale across the country for between £1 and £3. They contain dangerous levels of phthalates, which are used to 'toughen' plastic

Officials said the dolls, described as 'Sweet Fashion Doll' and 'Girl Beautiful Doll', contained high levels of phthalates.

Phthalates are used to 'toughen' plastic but it can harm children causing damage to their reproductive systems.

According to Nottingham Trading Standards: 'Consumers who have bought one of the toys are advised not to give them to children. They should be returned to wherever they were bought from and buyers should inform Trading Standards.

'It is thought that the dolls may have entered the UK through a number of different importers and have been supplied across the country.'

At least one batch has been in circulation since May and have been on sale for between £1 and £3.

The dolls come in a range of outfits and the language on the side of the box makes little sense.

Jane Bailey of Nottingham's Trading Standards said: 'The last thing anyone wants is Christmas ruined by their child becoming ill because of a toy they have been given.

'We’re urgently asking anyone who has bought one of these toys to return it immediately to the shop they bought it from, and then contact us.

'We understand the financial pressures people are under at the moment, but I’d urge parents to resist the temptation to buy cheap toys like these. They will carry none of the required quality marks and will likely have been subjected to no product testing at all.'