Financial technology company Greensill plans to create 227 jobs in the North West next year in a boost for Boris Johnson’s new Government.

The firm, which counts Japan’s SoftBank as one of its largest shareholders, told The Mail on Sunday it plans to hire people at the company’s Daresbury site near Warrington in 2020.

Many of the new roles will be in data analytics, data science and software engineering.

Greensill is one of the first businesses to push the button on expansion plans following the General Election. Greensill’s advisers include former Prime Minister David Cameron (right)

The company is one of the first businesses to push the button on expansion plans following the General Election.

The huge expansion comes after The Mail on Sunday revealed earlier this year that SoftBank’s Vision Fund, led by maverick entrepreneur Masayoshi Son, was planning to invest $800million (£615million) in the company.

Greensill, which last week announced a £2.5million donation to Alliance Manchester Business School, specialises in providing small and medium-sized businesses with access to working capital finance to run their day-to-day operations.

This means offering early payment to cover invoices due to be paid at a later date by large companies and government agencies, including Vodafone and the NHS.

The firm – now one of Britain’s largest technology start-ups – was set up by former Morgan Stanley and Citigroup banker Lex Greensill.

‘We have ambitious plans for 2020,’ said Greensill. ‘We see the UK as a global hub for fintech and technology professionals and the North West of England as a hotbed of specialist expertise.’

The Mail on Sunday revealed earlier this year that SoftBank’s Vision Fund, led by entrepreneur Masayoshi Son (above), was planning to invest $800million (£615million) in the company

Greensill’s advisers include former Prime Minister David Cameron.

Jake Berry, Minister for the Northern Powerhouse, said: ‘The UK is at the global forefront of the technological innovation, with the North being a beacon of talent for the whole country.

‘It’s fantastic to see Greensill’s investment creating so many jobs in the North West. Our key priorities are boosting innovative industries right across the country that will unleash Britain’s potential.’

Greensill has been expanding rapidly since SoftBank’s original investment in May.

In October, the company bought FreeUp, a technology company that will allow Greensill to offer workers early payment of their wages. SoftBank also poured another £510million into Greensill alongside the FreeUp takeover.

Sources said the latest SoftBank investment values Greensill at about £3.1billion.