She's set to become a mother for the first time next year.

And Chloe Goodman was enjoying a pre-Christmas visit to Tulleys Farm in Sussex on Sunday, spending some quality time with her lookalike sisters Lauryn and Amelia.

The 26-year-old CBB star was seen cradling her baby bump as she laughed and joked with her loved ones, at one point receiving a kiss on stomach from her youngest sister.

Festive fun: Chloe Goodman was enjoying a pre-Christmas visit to Tulleys Farm in Sussex on Sunday, spending some quality time with her lookalike sisters Lauryn (pictured) and Amelia

Chloe wrapped up warm in a nude coloured beige dress with silver buckle belt detailing under the bust.

She teamed the bodycon number with a fluffy black coat and a pair of matching boots, keeping snug against the December chill.

The beauty accessorised with giant silver hoop earrings and wore her brunette hair down loose.

Her sibling Lauryn wrapped up warm in a dark jacket, a geometric print scarf and a pair of lace-up combat boots.

Sweet: The 26-year-old CBB star was seen cradling her baby bump as she laughed and joked with her loved ones, at one point receiving a kiss on stomach from her youngest sister

Girls' night out: The duo were joined by their sister Amelia during their fun-filled outing

Dressed to impress: Chloe wrapped up warm in a nude coloured beige dress with silver buckle belt detailing under the bust

Winter chic: The star added a pair of matching boots, keeping snug against the December chill

Amelia was equally dressed down in an all-black ensemble for their family trip.

The girls cheered on their little sibling as she took to the ice, shouting words of encouragement from the sidelines.

She recently revealed she was expecting a baby with her boyfriend of two years, Grant Hall.

Chloe has struggled during her pregnancy due to having had half of her cervix removed last year and recently had a surgical stitch to help prolong her pregnancy.

Brrr: Her little sister Lauryn wrapped up warm in a dark jacket, a geometric print scarf and a pair of lace-up combat boots

Fun for all: The girls cheered on their little sibling as she took to the ice, shouting words of encouragement from the sidelines

In high spirits: The duo were on fine form as they chatted and giggled together

Earlier this month, Chloe advised fans to get checked to ensure they don't go through the same issues she has.

Breaking down in tears in a video shared to her Instagram stories, Chloe said: 'As you all know, or most of you know, I had half my cervix removed last year which my surgeon did tell me would cause me to have problems with having a baby.

'Now even if you've just had the loop or even if you're just normally pregnant, you've got no previous thought for why your cervix is weak, or anything like that, when you get your three month scan do yourself a favour and ask them to measure your cervix.

'It's really important, an incompetent cervix risks the life of your baby which is what me and Grant are struggling with,' Chloe explained, as she began to tear-up. 'I wasn't going to cry when I came on here.'

Glamorous: Chloe looked every in the yummy mummy in her beige bodycon dress

Bling: The star accessorised her look with pair of giant hoops and a slick of lip gloss

Health woes: Chloe has struggled during her pregnancy due to having had half of her cervix removed last year

Chloe continued: 'It's really important I go in tomorrow for my operation to have the surgical stitch, it's not 100 per cent but it helps prolong the pregnancy.

'It's really important that anyone who is pregnant to check your cervix, check it's long enough and it's healthy, and you're not going to have any problems during your pregnancy.

'I've had so many women speak to me on here who have had either the loop or had things with their cervix, and they've all gone through c**p with their pregnancy, or lost children which is just awful, and its all preventable with the stitch.'

'So please make them check your cervix, they don't do it you have to make them,' she concluded.

Going under the knife: She recently had a surgical stitch to help prolong her pregnancy

Baby joy: She recently revealed she was expecting a baby with her boyfriend of two years, Grant Hall