Ryan Agnew threw three touchdown passes to a pair of receivers who had never scored before Saturday, and San Diego State rolled past Central Michigan 48-11 to win the New Mexico Bowl at Dreamstyle Stadium in Albuquerque.

Redshirt freshman Jesse Matthews came into the New Mexico Bowl second on the Aztecs in receiving yardage for the season but none of his 45 grabs were for a touchdown. That changed quickly, as he set the tone with a 22-yard touchdown grab just 2:26 into the game.

San Diego State (10-3) tacked on Matt Araiza field goals of 31 and 48 yards, the latter a personal-best, before Agnew and Matthews hooked up again on a 74-yard score with 5:26 to play before the half. The long play put an exclamation point on a dominant first 30 minutes that included three Aztecs interceptions of Central Michigan quarterback Quinten Dormady and saw San Diego State up 20-3 at intermission.

Tariq Thompson, Kyahva Tezino and Luq Barcoo each accounted for one interception. Barqoo's goal-line pick just before halftime marked his ninth of the season, setting a new San Diego State program record. Araiza also set a program record, ending the day with 22 made field goals for the campaign.

The Chippewas (8-6) came into the New Mexico Bowl having engineered the largest 2018-to-2019 turnaround in the FBS, rebounding from a 1-11 finish a season ago. They struggled on Saturday, however.

The turnovers underscored Central Michigan's offensive woes. The Aztecs held the Chippewas to 277 yards, 168 below their per-game average heading into Saturday.

San Diego State, meanwhile, gained 510 yards and rushed for 223, paced by Albuquerque native Jordan Byrd's 139. Byrd contributed to a 21-point third quarter for the Aztecs with a 2-yard touchdown run. T.J. Sullivan made his first two career receptions in the period, including a 29-yard touchdown grab.

Chase Jasmin completed the third-quarter deluge with a 2-yard touchdown run. Darren Hall put a cap on the Aztecs' day with a 20-yard fumble recovery return for a touchdown late in the fourth quarter.

--Field Level Media