Advertisement

Donald Trump on Saturday complained of the 'unfair' impeachment vote against him as he railed against 'crazy' Speaker Nancy Pelosi, claiming she hasn't sent the articles against him to the Senate because she has 'no case.'

The president, speaking to high school and college students at a conservative gathering, started his remarks focused on Wednesday's vote in the House of Representatives.

And Republican Rep. Dan Crenshaw came up on stage and presented Trump with his voting card from that day - red to signal he was a no on impeachment. Green voting cards were a yes.

'It's a no vote on impeachment day,' Trump said, waving the card in the air before putting it in his suit pocket.

The room of over 1,000 teenagers went crazy at the president's one-liners and riffs, giving him multiple standing ovations, cheering 'four more years,' and wearing 'Make America Great Again' gear.

President Trump holds a red 'no' voting card from Wednesday's vote

Republican Rep. Dan Crenshaw came up on stage and presented Trump with his voting card from the impeachment vote

Rush Limbaugh introduced President Trump to the Turning Point USA conference

Speaker Pelosi has not indicated when she will transmit the articles of impeachment to the Senate

During Wednesday night's vote on the two articles of impeachment against the president, many Republican lawmakers filled out paper ballots, which they then got back to keep as souvenirs.

'It's so unfair,' the president said of the action.

In his 73-minute speech, Trump praised the members of Congress who supported him by voting no.

'I have to say, what kind of great support did we have from those incredible congressmen and women this week? They were fantastic,' Trump said of the vote.

'We had three Democrats coming to our side so we have to call it a bipartisan vote,' he told the students at the Turning Point USA conference, which is a gathering for conservative teenagers.

'Hey, they had no Republicans on their side,' he added of Democrats.

He then pondered the impeachment articles against him before turning to attack Speaker Pelosi.

'How do you impeach when there is no crime,' he said. 'They call themselves Democrats, but they really don't believe in democracy.'

'Crazy Nancy. She's crazy,' he said to great applause. 'Their own lawyer said there is no impeachment.'

He then argued the speaker hasn't sent his formal articles of impeachment to the Senate because 'she has no case.'

The Senate - which is expected to acquit the president given its Republican majority - cannot formally try Trump until the articles are transmitted.

'You know she has no case. So let's not submit it. That's good. Right? That's good but so unfair. She has no case,' he said.

'They are violating the constitution,' he added. 'In the meantime our polls have gone through the roof.'

The president also defended Democratic Representative Tulsi Gabbard. The 2020 presidential candidate infuriated members of her party when she voted 'present' on the two articles of impeachment.

'I give her respect because she didn't vote the other day because she knew it was wrong,' Trump said.

He also defended Gabbard from Hillary Clinton's insulation that she's a Russian agent. Clinton said in an interview earlier this year that Russians were 'grooming' a 2020 Democratic presidential contender, implying it was Gabbard.

'I know one thing she is not an agent of Russia,' the president said of the Democratic congresswoman.

Trump's speech Saturday night had the feel of a campaign rally, complete with his music play list from his campaign events.

He entered the Palm Beach County Convention Center to 'Proud to be An American' - the song that introduces him at campaign rallies.

He also railed against 'Sleepy' Joe Biden and bragged how he attacked Elizabeth Warren, using the moniker Pocahontas that he's given her.

And he attacked repeated his old lines of attack against 'dirty cops' at the FBI, complaining about allegations they spied on his 2016 campaign. But a report from the Department of Justice's inspector general in early December found the FBI had sufficient reason to open the investigation into links between Russia and Trump campaign aides and acted without political bias when they did so.

President Donald Trump kisses radio personality Laura Ingraham as he invites her up on stage during his speech at the Turning Point USA Student Action Summit

Students cheered Trump at Turning Point USA conference

President Trump examines the voting card

The crowd of Trump faithful ate up the political red meat the president threw at them.

'There has never been a better time to be young and to be an American,' the president said as they cheered him on.

Students chanted 'four more years' and 'build the wall' at various points, both of which are favorites at Trump campaign events.

One member of the audience called out to the president 'Where's Hunter?' - a reference to Trump's attacks on Hunter Biden.

'Where is Hunter?' Trump responded.

The president also attacked Republicans who won't support him, known as the 'Never Trumpers.'

'These are the dumbest human beings on earth,' he said of them.

And he bragged he would win re-election next year.

'They are losing,' Trump said. 'We are winning, and we are succeeding in our mission to make America great again.'

He said what Democrats are doing violates the constitution

Republican Rep. Dan Crenshaw smiles as President Donald Trump calls out to him during his speech at the Turning Point USA Student Action Summit

During Wednesday's impeachment vote, several Republican lawmakers went to the front of the House to cast paper ballots and then kept those votes as souvenirs

Trump defended Democratic Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, who voted 'present' on impeachment

Trump was introduced by conservative talk radio host Rush Limbaugh, who told the students not to believe in climate change.

Limbaugh also urged the students to attack Trump's critics to show the president their support.

'The people that need to be defending themselves are the people attacking him and the people attacking us,' Limbaugh said. 'The president doesn't need to be defended. He needs to be supported.'

Meanwhile, Pelosi has given no indication of when she'll transmit the articles to the Senate. She said she's waiting for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican, to outline the trial process first.

'When we see what that process is,' she told reporters on Capitol Hill on Thursday.

Democrats want to call additional witnesses - including acting White House Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney and former National Security Adviser John Bolton.

McConnell's preference is to have a short, speedy trial.

McConnell and Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer said on Thursday they are at an 'impasse' in their negotiations on how to proceed. The Senate has adjourned for holiday recess and Schumer has requested he and McConnell talk again over the recess.

Turning Point USA founder Charlie Kirk (L), Donald Trump Jr. and his girlfriend Kimberly Guilfoyle listen to the president speak

Rep. Crenshaw addressed the conference earlier in the day and then greeted Trump on stage

Rush Limbaugh addressed the conference

Students listen to the president speak

Supporters react as President Trump speaks

The weekend retreat of Turning Point USA is an annual gathering for conservative students.

Founder Charlie Kirk is a friend of the president's.

Other speakers include Donald Trump Jr., Rudy Giuliani, Sean Hannity, Sarah Sanders, Kimberly Guilfoyle, Sens. Ted Cruz and Rand Paul, and Rep. Matt Gaetz.

Trump pointed out that his son Donald Trump Jr was in the crowd with Guilfoyle.

He asked his son when he was addressing the group.

'Tomorrow? I'm going to come,' the president said as the crowd roared their approval.

When Trump spoke to the group last – at their July conference in Washington D.C. – he spoke a video in front of a backdrop that included a doctored presidential seal – complete with a Russian emblem and a set of golf clubs.

However, there was no presidential seal behind him on Saturday. He spoke at the presidential lectern with the Turning Point USA logo behind him.

Instead of 'E pluribus unum,' the U.S. motto that means 'out of many, one' in Latin, the satirical version of the presidential seal – which went global in the after math of the conference – sported a new phrase: '45 es un titere.' That's Spanish for '45 is a puppet.'

An attendee wears a giant 'Maker America Great Again' hat

Trump's speech on Saturday was like a campaign rally

President Donald Trump spoke to Turning Point USA's Teen Student Action Summit in July with a doctored presidential seal behind him

This graphic shows the modifications the unknown creator of the phony seal (right) made to the original (left)

In the Seal of the President of the United States, an eagle faces to the left and holds 13 arrows in the talons of its opposite claw. The altered version replaced the arrows with a set of golf clubs.

Dollar bills were substituted for the olive branch traditionally in the other foot's grasp. Hammer-and-sickle icons made appearances on a makeshift red, white and blue shield.

The bird, too, was altered: In place of the bald eagle on the U.S. version, unchanged since 1960, a two-headed eagle from the Russian coat of arms appeared.

Turning Point USA said at the time that an aide had grabbed the wrong seal in a quick google search and fired that person.

Trump began his Christmas vacation on Saturday by hitting the links at his golf course in Florida.

Trump's motorcade departed Mar-a-Lago just after 10am, and headed to Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach.

On the way to the golf course, the motorcade passed a small number of supporters with flags and a Trump 2020 sign.

There was also a billboard on the way to the golf course that said 'President Trump, we'll give $1 million to our veterans if you go vegan for January.'

Trump flashes a double thumbs-up to supporters as he returns to Mar-a-Lago from the golf course on Saturday

The president could be seen wearing a white polo shirt and red hat with his campaign slogan, Keep America Great

President Trump's motorcade heads from Mar-a-Lago to Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach

Trump remained at the private golf course until around 1.45pm. The White House did not immediately offer details on who he may have played golf with.

On the way back to Mar-a-Lago, Trump was spotted by DailyMail.com as he flashed a double thumbs up to a small group of supporters by the roadside.

After a week of high impeachment drama and furious tweeting from Trump, the president fell silent on Twitter while enjoying the mild 75 degree weather at the golf course.

In contrast to Friday, when he sent more than 45 tweets, Trump did not tweet on Saturday until after 2.30pm, when he boasted of a set of spending bills he signed on the way out of DC on Friday night.