The family of Harry Dunn have said they are now '100 per cent convinced' that US diplomat's wife Anne Sacoolas will be extradited back to the UK to face justice.

It comes after a visit from Home Secretary Priti Patel to their Oxfordshire home yesterday and ahead of a planned visit to Number 10 to meet Boris Johnson in the new year.

The family have been promised that the extradition process will be governed only by law and not by politics.

Mr Dunn, 19, was riding down a country lane outside RAF Croughton, a US Air Force communications station in Northamptonshire, in August and was hit by a car driven on the wrong side of the road by Anne Sacoolas, 42.

She has been charged in Britain with causing his death by dangerous driving.

speaking to GMB this morning, the Dunns' lawyer Radd Seiger said the family now felt sure Sacoolas would be extradited

Amy Jeffress, her lawyer, said that she accepted responsibility but 'will not return voluntarily to the United Kingdom to face a potential jail sentence for what was a terrible but unintentional accident'.

However speaking to GMB this morning, the Dunns' lawyer Radd Seiger said the family now felt sure Sacoolas would be extradited adding their meeting with Priti Patel had made them feel the case was moving forward.

He said: 'The Home Secretary assured us, this process … will be followed under strict legal guidelines and there would be political interference, which is what we were worried about.'

Asked why it was important Mrs Sacoolas was brought back to the UK to face justice, he said: 'It's important because everyone in these circumstances, when you lose a loved one, needs to have closure, that sense of justice. Whether someone ultimately goes to jail is irrelevant, it's about going through the process.

Harry's parents Tim and Charlotte have said they feel reassured after a meeting with the Home Secretary

Harry Dunn, 19, was riding a motorcycle outside RAF Croughton in Northamptonshire in August when he was struck and killed

Anne Sacoolas filmed by ITV News behind the wheel in the US where she fled after the incident

'They've been emotionally shut down over these last couple of months because of that. So when the charging decision was bought on Friday, it was a huge release for them.'

He went on: 'If you and I had done with what this lady is now charged with, we couldn't flee the country, we would have to go through the legal process. No one is above the law.

'Will she come back? We are 100% convinced now that she will be extradited. There is no doubt in our minds.'

The lawyer went on: 'Like the rest of us, we believe in the rule of law and now that the charging decision has been made on Friday, she has been charged, the extradition process is very clearly defined, everybody has to go through a process.

Home Secretary Priti Patel leaving a meeting with the family of Harry Dunn in north Oxfordshire, as a spokesman has said that her office is considering extraditing the US suspect

Home Secretary Priti Patel is pictured above meting Radd Seiger, the spokesman for the family of the late Harry Dunn

'Which will ultimately lead to the application being sent across to the United States.

'We cannot envisage a situation where they will turn that down. The United States has never in the 100 years of the Treaty, turned down an extradition request from the UK, I don't for a single second think they will set a precedent with this case.'

He said the Home Secretary could not guarantee extradition, adding 'it's up to the Americans to send her back', but added that the legal process was now underway and 'now we can't see it being derailed.'

Speaking about the first Christmas without their son, he admitted he was worried about Charlotte, Harry's mother. He said: 'Charlotte couldn't make the meeting yesterday, she is very frail.'

He said his family would be spending Christmas with Harry's family, including Harry's mother Charlotte who was 'too frail' to attend yesterday's meeting with Ms Patel, adding: 'I am just really worried about them.'

He added: 'We are content now that the process has started. If it takes two, three, five years that's fine. There is no rush, we are patient but we are happy the process has started now.'