Time is running out for Christmas shopping with just two days to go.

But Sarah Hyland picked up some last-minute gifts as she ran errands after getting her nails done in Studio City, Los Angeles, on Sunday.

The Modern Family star, 29, dressed casually for the outing, flashing a hint of toned tum in an orange cropped jumper and loose-fitting ripped blue jeans.

'Tis the season! Sarah Hyland picked up some last-minute gifts as she ran errands after getting her nails done in Studio City, Los Angeles, on Sunday

The actress pulled her brunette tresses back into a bun and went makeup free for the outing.

Sarah accessorised with hooped earrings and round-framed glasses, while staying comfortable in a pair of white trainers.

The screen star carried her belongings in a black leather handbag by Dior and held a large water bottle to ensure she stayed hydrated.

Sarah was looking healthy after intermittent visits to the hospital over the past few years.

Top of the crops: The Modern Family star, 29, dressed casually for the outing, flashing a hint of toned tum in an orange cropped jumper and loose-fitting ripped blue jeans

The actress has kidney dysplasia, 'a condition that means her kidneys did not develop properly when she was in the womb and frequently form painful cysts'.

Sarah has had two kidney transplants, most recently in 2017, and also suffers from endometriosis, 'a disorder in which tissue that normally lines the uterus grows outside the uterus'.

The star has enjoyed a celebratory 2019 after getting engaged to Bachelorette and Bachelor in Paradise alum Wells Adams, 35, in July.

Sarah recently revealed she underwent a 'lifestyle detox' to improve her health.

Natural beauty: The actress pulled her brunette tresses back into a bun and went makeup free for the outing

She teamed up with No B.S. Skin Care for a new campaign, after deciding she wanted to 'take control' of what she puts 'in and on her body'.

Sarah said: 'Staying healthy is important to me, and that means taking control of what I put in and on my body.

'My lifestyle detox started with clean eating, but when I realised how many toxins were hidden in the products I used every day, I knew I had to make a big switch.'

Sarah and Wells have been dating since November 2017 and he popped the question during a romantic beach proposal in July.