Boris Johnson apologised for being ‘more North Korean than usual’ as he invited TV cameras into his post-victory Cabinet.

He even compared it to a Potemkin village – the first Russian attempt at fake news designed to mask horror with happy scenes.

Boris Johnson (pictured) apologised for being ‘more North Korean than usual’ as he invited TV cameras into his post-victory Cabinet

But was his joke a little close to the bone?

The PM’s ferocious chief aide Dominic Cummings

Cabinet Ministers spent a week of Christmas parties wondering out loud what they can do about the PM’s ferocious chief aide Dominic Cummings – something that never happened before the Government won a stonking majority.

‘Thirty per cent of his ideas are brilliant, yes’, one Secretary of State laments, ‘but 30 per cent are really stupid and the other 30 per cent would have been done already if it was possible.’

Raging at fresh instability created by threats to tear apart Whitehall and amid whispers of campaign tension on immigration, another Cabinet Minister thinks Cummings is actually far less powerful with an 80-seat majority than one of 20.

‘Boris likes to listen to a whole range of people. He can literally do what he wants now, so don’t be surprised if that includes reining [Cummings] in a bit.’ Only time will tell if it was wishful thinking, the Champagne talking or a newly found backbone…

Why was Boris Johnson in such a hurry to leave the House of Commons straight after his Brexit deal finally sailed through on Friday? The PM shot out of the Chamber as the Government benches erupted into cheers and backslapping. I hear he was late for Christmas lunch with his daughter in Mayfair celebrity seafood haunt Scott’s – one of those days it helps to have police outriders to clear the traffic.

The new boy ‘does a Bercow’

New broom Sir Lindsay Hoyle promised to usher in a markedly different era following the departure of vainglorious John Bercow, but do old habits die hard in the Speaker’s Office? A glossy brochure about the new Commons boss has been produced that contains no fewer than 27 images of the no-nonsense Lancastrian – including the one above – with some specially posed for the occasion. Bercow would be proud.

A glossy brochure about the new Commons boss has been produced featuring Sir Lindsay Hoyle

Vanquished Jeremy Corbyn had a face like thunder all week, but not for a lack of well-wishers commiserating with him in the Commons. On Tuesday he was given a knowing pat on the back from Ed Miliband – no longer the least successful Labour leader of the past two decades. And on Friday one-time Tory leadership frontrunner David Davis crossed the floor to shake his hand. Perhaps they could form a club?

Vanquished Jeremy Corbyn had a face like thunder all week, but not for a lack of well-wishers

Whiskery Antipodean campaign strategist Isaac Levido has won elections for two Prime Ministers this year – Boris Johnson and Aussie Scott Morrison. Australian High Commissioner George Brandis is so proud of his ‘great export’, he tells me, that he threw a drinks party in Levido’s honour last Sunday at his London residency.

Labour’s dirty ‘Debbie from accounts’ slur...

Ousted Corbynista diehard Laura Pidcock was so confident that she would win her North West Durham seat that she had already turned her attention to her next battle.

I hear she even had snazzy ‘Laura for Deputy Labour Leader’ T-shirts printed that are now languishing in an office cupboard.

Ousted Corbynista diehard Laura Pidcock was so confident that she would win her North West Durham seat that she had already turned her attention to her next battle

Meanwhile, the race to replace leader Jeremy Corbyn is already getting nasty, with mean Labour MPs coining yet another nickname for pushy frontrunner Rebecca Long Bailey.

No longer dubbed ‘wrong-daily’, she has now become ‘Debbie from accounts’.

And people wonder why the party has never yet elected a female leader.

The ongoing row in Parliament about a buried report into Russian influence on British politics does not seem to have bothered Soviet-born businessman Alexander Temerko, who has donated more than £1million to the Tories. I spotted him arriving as a guest on Queen’s Speech day – I wonder who invited him?

Despite it flopping at the polls, Labour’s doomsday attack line that the Tories will let evil American drug companies privatise our beloved NHS has this week been reheated by the party. So it was a bold choice by Jeremy Corbyn to use a note on his Christmas card to celebrate this year’s NHS arrival of cystic fibrosis drug Orkambi. It’s manufactured by Vertex – one of those big US pharma firms Mr Corbyn wants to shut out of Britain.