Carlo Ancelotti has teased that he might give Zlatan Ibrahimovic a call to see if the striker wants to come to Everton.

Before fans could get too excited, he then moved to clarify that he meant 'to visit, not to play'.

Ancelotti worked with the serial winner at PSG and remains close friends with the Swede.

Carlo Ancelotti teased the signing of Zlatan Ibrahimovic, who is currently weighing up options

Ancelotti said he and Ibrahimovic are good friends from their time together at PSG

The Italian posed with an Everton scarf on Monday at his official unveiling as the new boss

Having taken over at Goodison Park, Ancelotti was ashed about the possibility of signing Ibrahimovic for the Toffees.

He said: 'He is a good friend of mine and fortunately I have trained a lot of fantastic players.

'I think he finished his period in the United States and really I don't know what his idea is. I am going to call him, if he wants to come to Liverpool to enjoy, he can come. But not to play, not to play!'

But the Italian was then coy on the prospect of January signings, insisting his focus is on the players already at his disposal.

Ancelotti was chosen as the new Everton manager having been sacked by Napoli

Ancelotti moved to clarify that he was inviting Ibrahimovic to visit rather than play

Ancelotti added: 'For me I don’t answer [on the transfer window]. Everyone is focused on putting the best team on the pitch. The most important thing now is Burnley.

'What I know is talking with Moshiri is that the club wants to be competitive in the Premier League.

'So for me that is enough. Together we have to do things the right way to improve. The fact the club wants to build a new stadium. The ambition at the club is really high. I am really happy to be here.'

Ibrahimovic, now 38, is still thriving and excelled with LA Galaxy after leaving Manchester United.

The striker was prolific in the MLS, scoring 52 goals in 56 games over the course of two seasons.

Ancelotti is content with his current options however and added: 'I think this squad is good. A good mix of experienced players. There is a sense of belonging with Coleman and Baines as well as young players.

Ancelotti also had positive words to say about Moise Kean, who he labelled 'top quality'

Ancelotti's first game in charge will come against Burnley and he was coy on January additions

'It’s a good mix I think. I am satisfied with the squad. We can improve but the first thing is we have in this period really important games. We have to focus there and then with Marcel and the board and then we can talk how to improve the team.'

And the 60-year-old went on to label Moise Kean as 'top quality' despite the youngster enduring a difficult time since joining in the summer.

'Kean showed fantastic talent for Juventus even if he didn’t play enough,' he said.

'He is 19-years-old, for every player that change country, that change teams. Sometimes there is adaptation. We have to work on him to improve his quality to be a better professional. He has top quality.'

And on his ambitions for the club in the long term, Ancelotti added: 'To improve our table position. To try to be closer to the top, compared to the bottom, that’s it.

Ancelotti's long term target is to bring European football back to Goodison Park

'Our goal is to play better football. I saw the last four games, Duncan has done a fantastic job. The team showed fantastic spirit against Chelsea United Leicester and arsenal.

'After that we have to try and play attractive football. I saw how the supporters pushed the team forward. They want to see offensive football. I would like to play a good style of football, I don’t know If I will be able to but I’ll try.

'We want to be ambitious and to be competitive. Europe here could be good.'