You know things are going badly when the head coach gets into a row with a bunch of blokes dressed as Santa.

That is what happened at Welford Road, where Geordan Murphy's Leicester suffered their 12th defeat in 15 Premiership matches.

Murphy is one of the most likeable and mild-mannered coaches in the league but his frustrations boiled over as his side let slip a 22-14 half-time lead. The Tigers named a fully loaded side and, for 45 minutes, were slick in attack against an Exeter team that rested five internationals.

Geordan Murphy's Leicester suffered a 12th defeat in 15 Premiership matches against Exeter

Home debutant Jordan Taufua looked like a star with tries and turnovers — but his new team slipped away as the prospect of relegation loomed larger.

The heavily rotated Chiefs fed off Leicester's handling errors in the rain and moved back to the top of the table. However, there is concern hanging over England centre Henry Slade, who limped off in the first half after rolling his ankle.

'He's hobbling so we will get him scanned when he gets back to Exeter,' said Chiefs coach Rob Baxter. 'You have to hope it's not too severe.'

Leicester named a heavyweight pack — with lock Calum Green at flanker — and built an early platform off their dominant scrum.

After Jannes Kirsten gave Exeter the lead, Jonny May scored his side's first try, before Taufua gathered George Ford's cross kick and steam-rolled Stuart Hogg for the second. Exeter were rattled.

The Tigers named a fully loaded side and, for 45 minutes, were slick in attack before collapsing

'We looked at each other as a coaching group and said: 'Is this the day they are clicking?' said Baxter. 'We did exceptionally well to stay together under that kind of pressure. As the leaders got us back in line, we looked a million dollars.'

The Chiefs struck back when Don Armand scored from a lineout, then George Ford and Gareth Steenson exchanged penalties, before the hosts' fragile lineout creaked.

Armand stole an attacking lineout before scoring his second from close range, then a sloppy overthrow from Tatafu Polota-Nau landed in the hands of Kyle Cooper.

A few phases later, Jonny Hill scored in the corner and Exeter had the bonus point.

Murphy later revealed he did speak with a fan but said it was only to apologise.

Home debutant Jordan Taufua looked like a star but his team slipped away at Welford Road

Murphy said: 'There was nothing more strenuous than that [apology]. Somebody said something which I agreed with and I swore. I realised there were kids about.

'It is difficult against a side like Exeter who have numbers in their line. Things were stacked against us when we were chasing a try for a few bonus points and the rain came in and it made it easier for Exeter to defend.

'I thought there were a lot of good things which we can build on.'

Murphy insisted his frustrations were not fwith the fans, but in fact with the referee. Panto season is truly underway.