Amazon Prime are in the England picture

Amazon Prime have been tipped to break into the rugby market as England seek a new broadcaster for the autumn internationals.

RFU CEO Bill Sweeney has opened the door to talks with the ground-breaking subscription service, which streamed its first Premier League matches this month.

Sky Sports’ long-standing deal is up for review and Sweeney believes it is only a matter of time until the streaming service turns its attention to rugby.

Amazon Prime are tipped to break into the rugby market as England seek a new broadcaster

‘Other broadcast deals in the industry tend to be a lot better than 12 months ago,’ said Sweeney. ‘Amazon crop up time and time again. Facebook is mentioned a lot. I’m not quite sure when it’s going to hit, but if you look forward you have to believe streaming content is the way it is going to go. You’ve got to find the right balance.’

Northampton have made enquiries about exiled No 8 Carl Fearns — after missing out on England hopeful Alex Dombrandt.

Saints are in the market for young English talent but Dombrandt, who made his professional debut last year, is set to sign a bumper new contract with Harlequins.

Gain Line understands Saints are now considering a move for Fearns, although other Premiership clubs are also interested in chasing the Lyon back row’s signature.

Sweeney plan to take more Tests around country

RFU chief Bill Sweeney is keen to arrange more Tests around the country following the success of England’s World Cup warm-up match in Newcastle.

England rarely play home matches away from Twickenham but Sweeney says that could soon change.

RFU's Bill Sweeney is keen to arrange Tests around the country and away from Twickenham

He said: ‘If you look at the revenue difference from playing a game in Newcastle to a game at Twickenham, it is quite a considerable amount.

‘It’s balancing of what you do in terms of developing the brand, developing the game and how much financial pain you can take.

‘It is realistic. The players really enjoyed travelling around the country and Newcastle did a great job.'

Worcester are weighing up a move for Wasps fly-half Billy Searle. The 23-year-old could seek a move after the Coventry club agreed new terms with fellow No 10 Jacob Umaga.

Worcester are believed to be weighing up a move for Wasps' 23-year-old fly-half Billy Searle

Vale make Farage pay

Nigel Farage received short shrift when he appeared as a surprise guest at Welsh semi-professional side Ebbw Vale.

The Brexit Party leader visited Blaenau Gwent as part of his election activities and headed down to the town’s rugby club for their Premiership clash with Swansea.

When anti-European Union lobbyist Farage arrived at the gates of Ebbw’s Eugene Cross Park home after speaking to local constituents, he expected to get in for free. But hardcore Welsh rugby-supporting locals had little time for the Westminster bigwig and multimillionaire — demanding he pay the £10 entry fee like any other regular punter.