With the average person set to consume around 2,000 calories on their Christmas Day lunch, it should come as no surprise that a festive feast has serious implications for our health.

And now, Australian dietitian Susie Burrell has revealed what the food, wine and all the trimmings really does to your body - and it's bad news for everyone set to indulge on December 25.

From shortness of breath to spikes in insulin, weight gain and even problems with your heart, Susie revealed the reasons why people often feel 'ill' after all of the eating on Christmas Day - and how you can prevent it.

Dietitian Susie Burrell (pictured) revealed what all the food, wine and all the trimmings really does to your body - and it's bad news for everyone set to indulge on December 25

Directly after you've finished eating (stock image), you might feel a bit short of breath - and this is a result of an overfull stomach pushing up into the diaphragm and limiting lung capacity

1. Shortness of breath - immediately after eating

Directly after you've finished your Christmas Day lunch, you might feel a bit short of breath.

Susie explained that this is a result of your overfull stomach (which is in fact only a little larger than a fist) pushing up into your diaphragm and limiting your lung capacity.

'It is for this reason that sitting down after a big meal is the worst thing you can do - stand up and even go for a walk if you can,' she wrote on her blog.

Even a short 10-15 spin around the garden or local area will help you to digest.

2. Feeling ill, tired and drowsy - 30 minutes after eating

What happens to your body after Christmas Day lunch * Shortness of breath * Feeling sick * Feeling tired * Feeling drowsy * Sharp abdominal pains * Insulin into overdrive * Too much fat in your blood stream * Abdominal discomfort * Gas and bloating * One or two kilo weight gain

Many people soon feel sick after consuming one too many roast potatoes with gravy.

Susie said this is often down to a combination of both eating too quickly and exposing your digestive system to 'much more fat' than it is used to.

'Indeed, many a case of gall stones has been triggered after an extremely high fat meal has been consumed, with sharp abdominal pains being one of the first signs of gall stones,' she said.

Due to the levels of carbs and fat in your stomach from a Christmas meal, your insulin levels will also go into overdrive, which can often leave you feeling tired and drowsy.

The dietitian added that the heart 'does not like' overeating either, as it will leave higher levels of fat in your blood stream.

She recommends eating a little slower - and spreading the feasting over the course of the day rather than just two hours.

This will mean your stomach has time to signal to your brain to tell you that you're full.

Other results of eating too much on Christmas Day (stock image) include abdominal discomfort, gas and bloating and even one or two kilo weight gain

3. Abdominal discomfort, gas and bloating - two hours after eating

One or two hours after eating a lot, Susie said you can expect to experience abdominal discomfort, gas and bloating 'as food and waste is shifted through the digestive tract'.

Some of this will result in weight gain - even in the short term - and she said it's not unusual to gain a kilo or two after a big meal 'thanks to the bulk of food in itself but also a higher intake of salt which will further act to retain extra fluid'.

This weight gain might be temporary, but for some people there could be a few grams that lasts and proves difficult to shift.

Again, light activity throughout Christmas Day to offset the over-consumption of calories will help.

What can you do to offset the effects of Christmas food?

How can you offset the effects of Christmas food? 1. Do 20-30 minutes of exercise on Christmas Day morning to significantly increase insulin sensitivity. 2. Keep lightly active during the day and go for a walk directly after lunch to aid digestion and move food through the digestive tract. 3. Have breaks between your courses to allow your stomach to signal to your brain that you are full.

Susie said the best thing you can do to offset the overindulging of Christmas is is some gentle exercise first thing in the morning.

'A short, high intensity training session on Christmas morning of just 20-30 minutes will significantly increase insulin sensitivity in the body which will in turn mean you are less likely to store fat after your massive feed,' she said.

You could also keep 'lightly active' during the day, and go for a brief walk after your lunch.

This will aid digestion and help to move food through the digestive tract.

Lastly, she said it's a good idea to have breaks between your courses - and remember you don't really need three slices of Christmas pudding.

She said the benefits of adopting this approach means you can try everything, without going overboard.