A motoring charge against Jackson Garlick was dismissed in Sydney's Waverly Local Court on Monday.

The Bachelorette star, 25, was facing one count of 'not turn right from multi-lane road from right lane' from an incident in April.

Jackson was seen looking proud and triumphant as he left the court - later thanking his famous NRL legend father Sean Garlick for his assistance.

Scroll down for video

'I'm happy I got away without a fine': Bachelorette star Jackson Garlick (left) had a motoring charge dropped in court on Monday with the help of his famous NRL legend father Sean

Jackson was seen in a suave blue suit holding a stack of folders in his arms as he left the local court with his family.

The reality TV personality even credited his father for helping dispute the charge successfully.

Jackson was clearly confident in his ability to have the charge dropped, and was prepared with his own photographic evidence.

He means business! Jackson was seen in a suave blue suit holding a stack of folders in his arms as he headed towards court on Monday in Sydney

Success! The reality TV personality even credited his father for helping dispute the charge successfully

He had been pulled over in Bondi riding his 2013 Black Yamaha on the Easter long weekend, where the office alleged Jackson tuned right from Sandridge Street on to Campbell Parade from the left-hand turn lane.

Representing himself, Jackson disputed the charge as he cross-examined a New South Wales Police Highway Patrol officer with 20-years experience.

Magistrate Grogin said it was a 'brave call' when Jackson told the court he did not want to view the police body-worn camera prior to it being played in the court.

PICTURED: Jackson gave photographic evidence on the day, including a photo on his 2013 Black Yamaha

Things are getting serious: Representing himself, Jackson disputed the charge as he cross-examined a New South Wales Police Highway Patrol officer with 20-years experience

When questioned about his right-hand turn, the Sydney sales manager explained to the officer that he was 'lane filtering'.

The charge was dismissed after Magistrate Grogin could not be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that he had turned from lane one.

Jackson avoided a $262 fine and two demerit points.

Support: The entire family of Jackson were in court on Monday supporting him as he faced Waverley Local, including his famous South Sydney Rabbitohs legend father Sean

The entire family of Jackson were in court on Monday supporting him as he faced Waverley Local, including his famous South Sydney Rabbitohs legend father Sean.

Outside court, Jackson admitted to only spending a short amount of time preparing for his case and credited his father, an ex-NSW Policeman for assisting him and giving him advice.

Jackson said he was happy to assist his mates fight minor traffic infringements in the future, but would be staying clear from any legal woes that had potential jail time involved.

Something to smile about! Jackson avoided a $262 fine and two demerit points

'Justice has been served and I’m really happy': The charge was dismissed after Magistrate Grogin could not be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that he had turned from lane one

Man of the people: Jackson said he would be willing to help mates fight other similar traffic offences in court

'I’m just happy that I got away without a fine and without demerit points. Justice has been served and I’m really happy.'

Jackson rose to fame in October, when he failed to win Angie Kent's heart on this year's season of The Bachelorette.

Many fan favourites from recent seasons often get a second chance at love on Bachelor In Paradise, but Jackson has yet to be confirmed for the spin off.