Gavin and Stacey star James Corden has revealed that the long-awaited Christmas special was saved after he and Ruth Jones wrote the 'best scene ever.'

The actor, 41, told The Sun that they decided to scrap the script they'd secretly written in LA, it was brought back to life after an idea 'landed in the room.'

James' revelations came as he and co-star Ruth Jones joined five of the show's stars to chat about the festive special on Radio 2 on Monday, as fans count down to its premiere on Christmas Day.

Amazing: Gavin and Stacey star James Corden has revealed that the long-awaited Christmas special was saved after he wrote the 'best scene ever'

James explained that he and Ruth met last year to try and write something new for Gavin and Stacey, but after writing 40 pages they agreed it wasn't good enough.

He said: 'We decided, ''OK, well, thank goodness we didn't tell anyone. Thank the Lord we didn't. We've scratched this itch that we thought was there, and it isn't, so no harm done. No one will ever know''.'

James then revealed that the Christmas special finally came together after an idea for a scene just 'landed in the room.'

Revelations: It came as James joined his co-stars including Ruth Jones (pictured) at BBC Radio 2 on Monday to chat about the long-awaited festive reunion

It's back! James said that he and Ruth were going to scrap plans for a Christmas special before this scene 'landed in the room'

'It's probably the quickest scene we've ever written. And I think it's the best scene Gavin & Stacey has ever had,' he added.

'Suddenly this scene arrived, I can't tell you, I sound like Mystic Meg, but it landed in the room.'

James was tight-lipped about the nature of the scene, although co-star Mathew Horne hinted on Radio 2 that it involved himself and Joanna Page, as he said it was the first scene they filmed when production began on the special.

Dynamic duo: During their Radio 2 appearances, James (left) and Ruth also said that they first spoke about reuniting three years ago

Wrapped up: Mathew Horne - who plays Gavin - was wrapped up in a cosy grey trench coat as he arrived at the Radio 2 studios in London

Exciting: Rob Brydon - who plays Uncle Bryn - also joined six of his co-stars in the studio to chat about the special

Funny: The Christmas special will see Bryn's hilarious attempts to cook Christmas dinner for Gavin and Stacey's families in Barry Island

Fans have been counting down the days until the Gavin and Stacey special finally airs on Christmas Day, after the reunion was first announced in May.

James also spoke to The Mirror about the upcoming reunion, and admitted he was bewildered when he received a call from his dad saying that he'd seen the Christmas special on the news.

'When we announced we were going to do it, I remember my dad calling me and going, ''Mate, it's on the news''.

'It's bizarre to me that bringing back a BBC comedy show would be on the news, but we're immensely proud of it.'

Amazing: While little has been revealed about the nature of the 'best scene ever' James reference, Mathew did say that it was the first scene he filmed with co-star Joanna Page

Reunited: As Mathew exited Radio 2 with his co-stars he was greeted by delighted fans waiting for autographs

Odd: James also told The Mirror that he thought it was 'bizarre' when the announcement about the Christmas special made it onto the news

Stylish: Joanna Page - who plays Stacey - said in the interview she was 'hysterical' when she got the phone call to reprise her role for the special

It came as James also reunited with his co-stars Ruth, Joanna Page, Mathew Horne, Larry Lamb, Rob Bryson and Alison Steadman on The Zoe Ball Breakfast Show on Monday to chat about the special.

During the interview, James also said that he and Ruth considered working together on a reunion three years ago, but finally made it happy last summer.

He added: 'There was a point about three years ago where we thought about getting together and we just didn't in the end and we go together last August, and said shall we just us, let's not tell anybody.

'And out of nowhere this scene landed, Gavin and Stacey are the absolute glue of the entire show and without them it's a cartoon.

'We started talking about what they could be doing in their lives as parents as a couple, and this scene arrived, it just dropped in the room.'

Nervous: Alison Steadman - who plays Gavin's mum Pam - admitted she had her reservations about whether she could snap back into the role

Classic: Larry - who plays Mick Shipman - described returning to the show after a decade as the same feeling as reuniting with a fine wine

Alison also said she had doubts about reprising her role as Gavin's brazen mum Pam, adding: 'I'm older and fatter, you think of ''can I get that character back and my hair's wrong'' and all those thoughts because it's been 10 years.

'It was weird because it was easier than I thought.'

So far little has been revealed about the Gavin and Stacey special, although it has been teased that the families of Essex and Barry will come together in Wales for the festive season, with Uncle Bryn's attempt to cook a Christmas dinner ending in disaster.

Gavin and Stacey returns on Christmas Day (Wednesday) at 8:30pm on BBC One.