Neighbours actress Jodi Anasta has revealed she struggles being away from her daughter Aleeia, five, for several days each week while filming the drama.

'It's always very difficult being away from Aleeia, but the way I see it is that I get a lot more holidays than most parents,' Jodi, 34, told The Sunday Telegraph.

The star, who plays Elly Conway on Neighbours, continued: 'There are lots of production breaks which is a luxury I know a lot of parents don't have.

Working mother: Neighbours actress Jodi Anasta (pictured) has revealed her 'difficulty' at being away from her daughter Aleeia, five, for several days each week while filming the drama

'My hours aren't your normal nine-to-five and I miss some bedtimes, but when we are together it's quality time.

'I have a whole month off over Christmas and New Year so I'll be able to relax, spend time with Aleeia, family and friends and feel like a normal person.'

The star lives in Sydney but spends much of her week on set in Melbourne.

Star: Whereas Jodi is based in Sydney, she is required on set in Melbourne each week, as Aleeia stays with her father, Braith Anasta, Jodi's ex. Pictured: Jodi as Elly Conway on Neighbours

While Jodi is away filming, Aleeia stays with her Sydney-based father Braith- Jodi's ex-husband.

Earlier this year, Jodi took a three-week hiatus from filming due to 'exhaustion' amid the constant travelling between Sydney and Melbourne.

'She's living between two cities, she's also a single mum and there are challenges that come with it,' her manager said at the time.

Difficult: 'It's always very difficult being away from Aleeia, but the way I see it is that I get a lot more holidays that most parents,' Jodi told The Sunday Telegraph

Holiday time: Jodi added that, 'I have a whole month off over Christmas and New Year so I'll be able to relax, spend time with Aleeia, family and friends and feel like a normal person'

After returning to work, the actress spoke candidly about self-love and taking time for herself during an interview with Nine Honey.

'It's that thing of self love, we all over look it so often but just resting and having a balanced diet, exercise and water and spending time with loved ones,' she began.

Jodi continued: 'Talking about your problems and connecting with people, I think that's all part of self love.'

'And even I forget to do it sometimes and that's when I need to take a minute and get myself back on track.'

Jodi concluded that she'd been working 'really long hours' on set, and struggled being away from her five-year-old daughter Aleeia.