Scott Morrison's voice broke as he was grilled by reporters about his secret family holiday to Hawaii during the worst bushfire season in Australia's history.

The Prime Minister was repeatedly questioned 'why the secrecy' and asked whether Australia would change its climate change policies.

'I get it that people would have been upset to know that I was holidaying with my family while their families were under great stress,' he said at the RFS headquarters in Sydney Olympic Park.

'They know that I will not stand there and hold a hose. I am not a trained firefighter nor am I an expert like those in the next room doing an amazing job.

'But I am comforted by the fact that Australians would like me to be here simply so I can be here alongside them as they go through this terrible time... I apologise for that.'

Scott Morrison appeared frazzled as he was grilled about his secret Hawaii family holiday

Up to 20 homes were lost to the immense Gospers Mountain fire (pictured on Saturday night) northwest of Sydney alone

Mr Morrison began by praising the tens of thousands of brave volunteer firefighters who have spent weeks battling life-endangering blazes without pay.

'No one wants to be out there fighting these fires. No one wants these fires to be happening at this time,' he said.

'But when those fires do occur, then those who have - and there's over 200,000 of them in Australia - who have signed up and put their hand up to be there to defend their communities, then they go out and they do this work.

'They do it on behalf of all of us. And they're getting tired. And they're getting fatigued because this has been going a very long time.'

Mr Morrison said anxious Australians should be very proud they had the best-resourced and coordinated fire services in the world.

He then addressed critics who demanded he take climate change more seriously.

The prime minister said he'd always acknowledged the connection between climate change and bushfires but there were also 'many other issues' at play, including drought, fuel-load management, lightning strikes and arson.

'There is no argument ... about the links between broader issues of global climate change and weather events around the world.

'But I'm sure people equally would acknowledge that the direct connection to any single fire event - it's not a credible suggestion to make that link.'

Mr Morrison said there was 'no argument' about the links between climate change and weather events, but said it wasn't credible to link it to any single bushfire

'I get it that people would have been upset': Mr Morrison (pictured in Hawaii) acknowledged he had caused deep pain by leaving the country as bushfires ravaged the nation

Mr Morrison admitted he had caused 'great anxiety' by leaving Australia, and said he would have done things differently if he had the 'benefit of hindsight.'

He said he had made a promise to his two daughters Abby and Lily to take them on a holiday after a long year.

'I'm sure Australians are fair minded and understand that when you make a promise to your kids, you try to keep it - but as prime minister, you have other responsibilities.

'I accept that. I accept the criticism.'

Mr Morrison said his family normally went on holidays on the south coast of NSW in January, but those plans were cancelled due to work commitments in Japan and India.

Instead, he wanted to surprise the girls with a trip to Hawaii before the year ended, a plan he said he was sure other mothers and fathers could relate to.

'I tried to give them a bit of a nice surprise and take them here,' he said. 'I think that's what dads try and do if they can, when they've been working hard all year.

'I know there are lots of dads and mums out there who've been working hard all year try to treat their kids at this time of year, and that's what I was trying to do. It's just unfortunate it's come at such an awful time, particularly for those living in and around Sydney and NSW.'

Protesters hold up banners during a protest at Kirribilli House on December 19, 2019 in Sydney, Australia. Protestors organised the rally outside Prime Minister Scott Morrison's Sydney residence over his absence during the ongoing bushfire emergencies across Australia

Mr Morrison and his wife, Jenny (pictured together) were photographed on a beach in Hawaii

Pictured: Mr Morrison during a business trip to Fiji in August

The prime minister was scrutinised for his decision to leave Australia for a personal trip while the nation was burning.

His office has also been criticised for not being honest about where he was.

But Mr Morrison said he wasn't trying to hide the trip from the public and insisted he followed the same protocol he had all year when taking personal leave.

For days his office denied he was even in Hawaii to begin with, citing security risks as the reason why they could not disclose his location.

'Each time I have taken private family leave as Prime Minister I followed exactly the same process,' Mr Morrison said. 'There was no change. On my earlier leaves, no statement was issued. I took private family leave and no objections were raised by the press on those occasions.'

With the worst of a distorting southerly blast over, NSW authorities say they must now count the cost of a horror day on the state's fire grounds.

An elderly man whose home was consumed by flames remains missing and dozens of properties have been damaged or destroyed by bushfires which raged during heatwave NSW conditions on Saturday.

Mr Morrison met with fire chiefs at the NSW Rural Fire Service control room in Sydney

Rural Fire Service commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons described the day as 'awful' for firefighters, with up to 20 homes lost to the immense Gospers Mountain fire northwest of Sydney alone.

At least two more properties were razed near Batemans Bay on the south coast, and others at Balmoral southwest of Sydney.

Southerly winds moving upstate on Saturday evening fanned flames in new directions and caused erratic fire behaviour, before creating cooler conditions for the 3000 firefighting and emergency personnel in the field.

A fire-generated thunderstorm also formed over fires in the Shoalhaven.

With forecasts predicting close to a week of advantageous conditions across NSW, Mr Fitzsimmons said his crews would 'make hay'.

Tougher conditions would likely return later in the week or next weekend.

Two total fire bans will nevertheless be in place on Sunday in the Northern Slopes and North Western regions, under 'very high' fire danger.

Mr Morrison thanked firefighters from Canada and USA before addressing the media

'Our big focus is on trying to consolidate and establish containment lines across as many fire grounds as we can. We have significant fire spread south of the Bells Line of Road and through the valley system such as the Grose Valley in the Blue Mountains,' Mr Fitzsimmons told reporters.

'So we will be looking at what are the options, what are the fall-back lines and at what point do we start implementing very significant strategies to secure protection for an impending threat to the Blue Mountains, particularly the communities along the Great Western Highway.'

Mr Fitzsimmons said an elderly Dargan man who refused to leave, choosing to stay and defend his residence east of Lithgow, remained unaccounted for on Saturday evening. His property was later seen in flames.

NSW Ambulance chief executive Dominic Morgan said a number of firefighters suffered heat exhaustion on Saturday while battling the 112 fires, which were having a 'big impact' on demand for emergency services.

Mr Fitzsimmons added one firefighter at Lithgow had been treated for smoke inhalation and another at Gospers Mountain was struck by a car.