Jessika Power has hinted she may have a new man in her life.

The former Married At First Sight star took to Instagram on Monday to reveal that she had been on a blind date.

The 28-year-old shared a photo at a cinema, holding a bucket of popcorn as she eats one of the salty kernels off her index finger.

'We both love movies!' Married At First Sight's Jessika Power (pictured) revealed on Monday that she had been on a blind date with a mystery man, taking to Instagram to share a photo of herself at the movies

She captioned the snap: 'I had the best time with my blind date. He and I both love movie dates. I'm really only there for the popcorn'.

In the photo, Jessika looks casually chic in a white denim mini-skirt with tortoiseshell buttons and a pale orange crop top.

She opted for natural makeup for her date and wore her straight blonde hair down around her shoulders.

She captioned the snap: 'I had the best time with my blind date. He and I both love movie dates. I'm really only there for the popcorn'. The blonde beauty did not however reveal the identity of her mystery man nor post a photo of him

The blonde beauty did not however reveal the identity of her mystery man nor post a photo of him.

Jessika appears to currently be single after a string of failed relationships in the past year.

In September, after weeks of speculation, Jessika confirmed her split from fellow Married At First Sight star Nick Furphy.

The blonde made the shock announcement she had ended their two-month relationship in an Instagram Story.

Over: In September, Jessika confirmed her split from fellow Married At First Sight star Nick Furphy (left). Their trip to Bali ended in a huge fight at the airport

Ouch: She had previously bitterly split from another MAFS co-star, Dan Webb (right), in April, following their controversial relationship on the reality show's sixth season

The news came one week after Jessika and Nick's trip to Bali ended in a huge fight at the local airport, with the couple then flying home alone.

She had previously bitterly split from another MAFS co-star, Dan Webb, in April, following their controversial relationship on the reality show's sixth season.

On May 14, Jessika debuted her new man, Sam Abdulrahim, and told Daily Mail Australia exclusively at the time: 'We met through mates and I'm enjoying getting to know him.'

That's not Dan! On May 14, Jessika debuted her new man, Sam Abdulrahim (right). However, the couple split just 20 days after going public

However, the couple split just 20 days after going public.

In September, Jessika was spotted hooking up with Bachelorette contestant Matt Whyatt at a Gold Coast nightclub.

A few weeks later, in a series of now-deleted Instagram posts, the pair kissed each other and downed drinks at Wahoo's Fish Taco bar.

In October, Jess hinted she had a new man in her life when she shared a photo of herself kissing social media star and professional boxer Kyron Dryden, 26.

Moving on? In October, Jessika hinted she had a new man in his life, after posting this photo of herself kissing social media star and professional boxer Kyron Dryden, 26 (left)

Last week she told Daily Mail Australia she is focussing on 'finding herself' and 'self-love', and joked that she is not as promiscuous as people believe.

'I've probably only slept with like 14 people,' Jessika claimed, admitting she spent six years in a committed relationship before finding fame.

Jessika continued: 'I'm looking forward to Christmas in Cairns with my family and I'm on a man ban. I'm staying single in 2020 and want to focus on myself and self-love.'