A South Australian firefighter and a koala have been captured in a heartbreaking image watching on helplessly as a raging bushfire destroys the animal's habitat.

The image, posted on the Eden Hills Country Fire Service Facebook page, shows the fireman with a hose standing in front of the inferno with a koala by his side at the Lobethal vineyard, west of Adelaide.

'Now that's a moment in time,' one comment on the post read. 'Hope you and the koala are safe now.'

'What a powerful photo. Thank you for sharing. And a giant thank you to all the outstanding firies tirelessly fighting the infernos. True heroes,' another wrote.

Catastrophic fire conditions have ravaged through Australia in recent months, with more than 1,000 homes damaged or destroyed in New South Wales alone, with around 1,100 hectares of vineyards destroyed in South Australia.

Nine people have died in the bushfire crisis, with more than 1,000 koalas are feared to have been wiped out in the blazes.

A firefighter and a koala watch on as fire burns through the Lobethal vineyard in the Adelaide Hills

Firefighters have been rescuing wildlife from catastrophic blazes around the country, including the Cudlee Creek fire in South Australia where a firefighter was captured giving water to a koala on Sunday

New South Wales firefighters have been tackling a blaze in Balmoral in south-west Sydney, with Premier Gladys Berejiklian saying the town was decimated in fires on Thursday and then again on Saturday

The bushfires have been devastating to our native flora and fauna, with firefighters helping to save distraught animals from blazes destroying their habitats around the country.

Emergency crews are still battling an inferno in Cudlee Creek, with South Australian Premier Steven Marshall confirming that the blaze has destroyed 72 homes.

'This is a very sad day for the people of South Australia as many return to their homes in the Adelaide Hills … and all they find is rubble,' Mr Marshall said, as reported by the ABC.

There are 300 firefighters on the ground tackling the blaze, with the fire not expected to spread any further after burning through 25,000 hectares of land.

Around 2,000 homes in Adelaide Hills are without power, with a total fire ban in place since Monday.

The RSPCA shared photos of animals suffering at the to help raise awareness about the loss of animal lives in the bush and tell the tale of the animals who are suffering alongside the residents who live in fire-affected areas.

Meet the brave koalas fighting for their lives with burns from deadly fires Workers at the Port Macquarie Koala Hospital that looked after Lewis told Daily Mail Australia on Wednesday they were overwhelmed by the public's generosity. 'We're working flat out here and we're very busy with taking donations over the phone,' one said. 'The community has been extremely generous'. Julie Black, of Port Stevens Koalas, described similar scenes at her sanctuary. 'We're actually completely inundated with clothes and towels for the koalas,' she said. Advising people on how best to help, she said: 'If people want to donate the most helpful thing for them to do is to give medication or money.' After Lewis' death moved the world, Daily Mail Australia here charts the progress of his fellow koalas who made it out of the bushfires alive. Peter Peter was saved from fires at Lake Innes Nature Reserve and workers at Port Macquarie Koala Hospital said he is healing well. He has burns to his hands and feet and 90 per cent of his body was singed. His fur turned brown due to heat of the fires. Peter (pictured) was saved from fires at Lake Innes Nature Reserve and workers at Port Macquarie Koala Hospital said he is healing well Peter (pictured) has burns to his hands and feet and 90 per cent of his body was singed 'He is eating well, and his burns are healing as we expected,' the carers said. In an update on Peter's progress, workers said they have 31 koalas in the sanctuary rescued from fires. 'It's early days yet for most of them. We thank you all for being so supportive, kind and caring,' they said. Paul Paul was the first koala saved from the Lake Innes Nature Reserve fireground near Port Macquirie. He was found curled up on the burnt ground by a member of the public who brought him to the Koala Hospital. Paul was severely dehydrated and had suffered burns to his hands and feet. Paul (pictured) was the first koala saved from the Lake Innes Nature Reserve fireground near Port Macquirie Peter (left) and Paul (right) hanging out in the Koala Hospital after they were rescued This normally happens when a koala climbs down a burning tree to escape the flames. His fur is also singed on 90 per cent of his body. Workers wrapped his feet in green plasters and hope his wounds will successfully heal. Anwen Anwen, a young female, was also rescued from Lake Innes Nature Reserve. She had suffered singeing to 90 per cent of her body and radiant burns to her bottom from the extreme heat of the flames. Anwen also has burns to the pads on her hands and feet, probably from climbing burnt trees. Anwen (pictured), a young female, was also rescued from Lake Innes Nature Reserve Workers at Port Macquarie Koala Hospital say she is recovering really well and is especially enjoying the hospital food. 'Anwen has accepted the five star service at the Koala Hospital really well and loves the daily delivery of fresh leaf,' workers said. Staff also said Anwen has also found a 'perfect spot' to sit down in the ward and this has become known as 'Anwens spot'. Blaze Blaze was pulled from the flames in Taree and has been recovering at Port Stevens Koalas where workers say he is a 'treasure to care for.' He suffered horrific burns to his hands feet, testicles and face. Blaze (pictured) was pulled from the flames in Taree and has been recovering at Port Stevens Koalas where workers say he is a 'treasure to care for.' Blaze is being treated with a saline drip three times a day and nebulizer to help his throat, nasal passages and lung tissue heal. Sooty Sooty was rescued from fires in Taree and taken to Port Stevens Koalas. He is suffering from severe burns and is on a 'long and difficult' road to recovery. Sooty (pictured) was rescued from fires in Taree and taken to Port Stevens Koalas Workers at the centre remained hopeful that he will survive. They said: 'The koalas will be offered round the clock care and attention by PSK's wonderful team of home carers and volunteers. 'We must all pull together during these disasters and do all we can to preserve and protect our precious koala population.'

New South Wales have been busy taming a blaze in Balmoral, with the town burning to the ground last week after firefighters ran out of water.

The aftermath of the devastation in the New South Wales Southern Highlands town can be seen in harrowing pictures showing a burnt out car covered in ash, a charred railway line and the rubble of destroyed homes.

The small town of just 400 people was decimated during the fires last Thursday and then again on Saturday.

Brendon O'Connor, the captain of the Balmoral Rural Fire Brigade, told ABC Radio on Monday the village runs on limited tank water.

The remains of homes appear post-apocalyptic after fire tore through the small town late last week

Eerie photos show the charred remains of Balmoral, in the New South Wales Southern Highlands. This car was one of dozens lost in the blaze

Crews were trying to fight two separate firefronts with tanks filled with water, but they were quickly drained due to the enormity of the blaze.

'It was terrible. We had eight fire appliances dealing with the fire storm and no water left,' Mr O'Connor said.

'The tanks and town had been drained. We had to wait for another tank to make it in and restock us.'

But by that point, the unpredictable winds had picked up on both sides of the village and the volunteers were flanked by flames.

A house is seen barely standing after the catastrophic bushfires that swept through the tiny town of Balmoral

'We're only a small rural community,' Mr O'Connor said. 'Well over 90 per cent of the bushland within the village area is gone.'

New South Wales Premier Gladys Berejiklian said the town - home to about 400 people - was decimated during the fires on Thursday and then again on Saturday.

Ms Berejiklian said 'there isn't much left' of the township after the fire razed much of it to the ground.

The town had about 150 homes last week and has since lost about 18 of them to the fires.

Fire crews will take advantage of a tame weather forecast this week, with mild temperatures and low winds forecast including rain in some areas on Christmas day.