The Ivy Asia

20 New Change, London

Rating:

The Ivy Asia is unlike anywhere I’ve ever eaten before. Imagine Jeff Koons, Elton John, Wong Kar-wai and Ridley Scott sitting in an underground Tokyo nightclub. The sort where cigarettes are lit by immaculately made-up hostesses, while sinister-looking men swirl expensive whisky in heavy tumblers. They’re here to discuss a new collaboration, a ‘pan-Asian restaurant concept’ from that lot at The Ivy. You know, the famed Covent Garden showbiz place that has since spawned Ivy Market Grills across the land. Money no object. Spend, spend, spend.

The Ivy Asia. Despite the ear-bleeding racket and questionable dancing girls and ever-upselling waiters, you won’t forget this place in a hurry

Then picture their drinks being spiked. With nuclear-grade LSD. And a few hours later, as walls melt and floors swirl, they come up with the most outlandishly OTT psychedelic smorgasbord you could ever imagine. Then times that by 100. And you’re still not close to the sheer crazed exuberance of The Ivy Asia. It sits on the site of Jamie Oliver’s Barbecoa, with vast windows that overlook St Paul’s. But even Wren’s masterpiece, which must have seen a bit over the years, gazes on agog.

The trip starts as you pass the bouncers on the door, on to a glowing pink onyx floor, like Klimt gone very kitsch, and creep towards a miniature, intricately wrought Japanese pagoda, where a ‘greeter’ clad in Chinese silk dress checks your credentials. Before you’re led up into the main nightclub, sorry, restaurant, where the house music doesn’t just pump but thunders and rages and roars. It’s like sitting in the bass bin of Amnesia in Ibiza. Which makes communication all but impossible. On podiums, dancers, dressed in slinky kimonos, writhe and wriggle in time to the beat.

Upstairs, a floor of more semi-precious stones, this time in Oz green. It bathes the vast room in a decadent glow. All around us, battalions of waiters scurry about like ants fleeing boiling water. We order a bottle of sake. Our waiter looks unimpressed. And tries to upsell us one at double the price. ‘Someone has certainly had a vision,’ says Yvonne, who as a Hong Kong sommelier and hotelier has seen her share of Far Eastern excess. Ewan has been struck temporarily quiet. He shakes his head and grins. ‘Jesus,’ is all he can utter. He has just come back from the loo. Where a full-size samurai statue stands at a urinal. At that moment, a saxophonist, dressed as a geisha, cuts through the tables and goes all Kenny G. She sure can play. By now, I would barely blink if John Wick came stalking through the neon gloom, dispatching his enemies with a flick of his wrist.

Then we remember the menu. And that The Ivy Asia is also a restaurant, and not just some extraordinary slice of ersatz Asian insanity. Tempura prawns are coated in a bulletproof batter. Nothing light and gossamer here. There are decent Korean pork dumplings, the skins thin and silken. Once more, our waiter goes for the upsell. We should try the truffled ones. We shake our heads. Korean lamb chops are Roka level excellent, pink, juicy and fiery. Fine tuna tataki too, with spanking fresh fish and slivers of crisp apple adding crunch. Sushi is respectable, the rice warm and lightly vinegared, the otoro properly cut. Avoid the crisp duck salad though. Gloopy and dull. But to whack out this much mainly decent food, to this many people, at half decent prices, is laudable. This isn’t dinner, rather a giddy, often ridiculous spectacle that’s somehow impossible to resist. Although it probably helps to turn up half-cut.

This isn’t dinner, rather a giddy, often ridiculous spectacle that’s somehow impossible to resist

But with the world collapsing around our ears outside, it’s also a self-consciously bonkers escape from the hum and the drum. Despite the ear-bleeding racket and questionable dancing girls and ever-upselling waiters, you won’t forget this place in a hurry. It’s a blockbuster, a blast, a bejewelled two fingers up to austerity. The finish is lavish, the attention to detail astonishing. Hats off to the designers. And that’s when it hits us. The Ivy Asia isn’t so much a restaurant as London’s first purpose-built Instagram ‘experience.’ Turn on, log in, zoom out.

About £30 per head