Don't forget the sixpence, George!

The six-year-old Prince took the lead when four generations of the Royal Family got together to help prepare Christmas puddings in an exercise captured in a series of enchanting pictures.

Under the adoring gaze of his great-grandmother – and with a little help from his grandfather Charles and father William – the angel-faced George gets stuck into the sticky fruit mix with his wooden spoon.

And once the blend was perfect, each Royal placed commemorative sixpences into the mixture.

The Queen, the Prince of Wales, Duke of Cambridge and Prince George prepare Christmas puddings in a photograph released by Buckingham Palace

Great-grandmother keeps a watchful eye: The Queen smiles as Prince George gets stuck into the sticky fruit mix with his wooden spoon

To the possible relief of his father, the young Prince even managed to keep his white shirt spotlessly clean, despite not wearing an apron or even rolling up his sleeves.

The Queen and the three future kings mixed the puddings last week in the magnificent Music Room, one of Buckingham Palace's 19 State Rooms, and the place where Prince William was christened.

Clips from the cooking session, filmed before the Duke of Edinburgh was rushed to King Edward VII's Hospital on Friday, were recorded for use in the Christmas message next week.

The footage of the family together marks a departure from previous Christmas broadcasts, with the candid scene giving an insight into family life.

In a second image, the table is filled with four bowls, with all of the generations getting involved with the seasonal baking

Veterans Liam Young, Colin Hughes, Alex Cavaliere, Barbra Hurman and Lisa Evans pose alongside the royal family in the Music Room at Buckingham Palace

The footage of the family together marks a departure from previous Christmas broadcasts, with the candid scene giving an insight into family life

Behind them stands a Christmas tree, adorned with regal decorations and baubles, including crowns, corgis, a throne and Scots Guards wearing kilts and bearskin hats.

The puddings will be handed out next year as part of a campaign by the British Royal Legion to tackle loneliness among armed forces veterans

The Queen wore a light blue dress designed by Angela Kelly with a sapphire and diamond brooch, while Prince George wore a pique piped shirt by British designer Rachel Riley.

The puddings will be handed out next year as part of a campaign by the British Royal Legion to tackle loneliness among armed forces veterans.

The charity will serve 99 puddings to mark its 99th year. The mixing session was led by Alex Cavaliere, a former soldier with the Army Catering Corps who now works in one the charity's six care homes.

Also taking part were veterans Liam Young, 33, a former corporal in the Light Dragoons who trained with Prince Harry and who fought in both Iraq and Afghanistan, and Lisa Evans, 35, a mother-of-two who was in the Royal Logistics Corps and served in Iraq aged just 18.

A shadow over Sandringham: No traditional shoot or stud trip as Royals hope Duke will be fit to join Christmas celebrations

By Mark Hookham, Andrew Young and Peter Henn for the Mail on Sunday

The Queen's Christmas holiday got off to a muted start yesterday but hopes rose that the Duke of Edinburgh will be well enough to join her for this week's celebrations.

During a subdued day at the Sandringham Estate in Norfolk, the Queen is thought to have postponed her normal routine of visiting the Royal stud on the first day of her festive break.

The Queen normally tours the stud on the 20,000-acre estate soon after arriving from London to see her horses and the staff who care for them. While staff appeared to be preparing for a Royal arrival yesterday morning, the Queen seemingly did not visit.

The Queen waits for her train to depart King's Cross station in London for Norfolk at the start of her Christmas break

In another apparent break from routine, there was no Saturday pheasant shoot, despite it being the height of the shooting season. In recent years, Philip has watched shoots at Sandringham from the warmth of a Land Rover.

The start of this year's celebrations have been overshadowed by concern over the Duke's health.

Philip, 98, was flown by helicopter to hospital in London on Friday morning for 'observation and treatment' of an unspecified pre-existing condition. The dash followed a month of ill-health for the Duke, including a reported fall.

Royal sources said last night that he was expected to remain in hospital for a few days, raising the prospect that he could be discharged in time to join the Queen and other senior Royals at Sandringham on Christmas Eve.

The Royal Family traditionally lay out their presents on trestle tables on December 24 and exchange their gifts at tea time.

On Christmas Day, they attend morning service at the nearby St Mary Magdalene Church.

Police officers outside King Edward VII's Hospital in London on Saturday after the Duke of Edinburgh travelled from Norfolk to the hospital

The Queen (pictured on Friday) is thought to have postponed her normal routine of visiting the Royal stud on the first day of her festive break

The Mail on Sunday understands Philip was driven to RAF Marham on Friday morning, where he boarded a Royal helicopter.

The Sikorsky S-76 left the base at 11.05am and landed in South London 45 minutes later. Philip was then driven to the private King Edward VII hospital in Marylebone, West London.

Royal sources said he walked into the hospital unaided.

The use of the RAF base, which is 12 miles south of Sandringham, guaranteed that the hospital transfer could be undertaken discreetly and away from the press photographers who gather at the estate in December.

However, it also meant that Philip and the Queen, 93, just missed each other.

The Royal's Christmas holiday got off to a muted start on Saturday but hopes rose that the Duke of Edinburgh (pictured) will be well enough to join her for this week's celebrations

Wearing a pink coat, pearls and a light blue headscarf, the Queen caught the 10.42am Great Northern service from London's King's Cross station and arrived at King's Lynn at 12.31pm.

It remained quiet outside the King Edward VII Hospital yesterday. No members of the Royal Family were seen visiting.

'I hope Prince Philip is going to be OK,' one resident said. 'It would be nice if he and the Queen were back together at Christmas.'

Prince Charles is unlikely to join his mother at Sandringham until at least tomorrow night. He will first pay a visit to Yorkshire to meet volunteers and victims affected by floods in November.

Prince Andrew, who was forced to resign from Royal duties over his links to paedophile Jeffrey Epstein, is expected to join his family at Sandringham, but it remains unclear whether he will take part in the traditional walk to church on Christmas Day.

Prince Harry's office confirmed that he and his family will be spending 'private time' in Canada over the Christmas period.

A rotten year and a rotten time not to have Philip by her side

By Ian Lloyd for the Mail on Sunday

When the Queen arrived at King's Lynn station on Friday, she was animated, happily chatting to railway officials and clearly looking forward to her Christmas break at Sandringham House nearby.

This was, as always, a polished performance, seemingly delivered without a care in the world. We now know that behind the warm smile and pleasantries, the Queen was hiding the knowledge that Prince Philip, the man she calls her 'strength and stay', was being taken by helicopter to a London hospital – a distressing conclusion to one of the most fraught years of her long reign.

The family problems started early. It was only halfway through January when the Duke of Edinburgh was involved in a serious traffic collision close to Sandringham. The Land Rover he was driving hit a Kia, and while he suffered only cuts and bruises, the public outcry that a 97-year-old should have been behind the wheel forced him to give up the driving licence he had held for 70 years.

When the Queen arrived at King's Lynn station on Friday, she was animated, happily chatting to railway officials and clearly looking forward to her Christmas break, writes Ian Lloyd

Then the Queen had to watch as the Duke and Duchess of Sussex – Prince Harry and Meghan – developed an increasingly volatile relationship with the media. The couple's October tour of South Africa was a great success, but it was overshadowed by a highly emotional TV interview in which they lamented the way in which they have been portrayed.

But these concerns paled to insignificance after the controversy of Prince Andrew's association with convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein, and the humiliation of his grilling by Emily Maitlis on a special edition of Newsnight.

It is no exaggeration to say that the Royals find themselves in the worst crisis since the death of Princess Diana in 1997 – yet these days, the Queen no longer has Philip as a constant by her side in public or in private.

This was, as always, a polished performance, seemingly delivered without a care in the world

He retired from public duties in 2017 and has spent much of his time since then living at Wood Farm, on the Sandringham Estate.

The two have spoken every day during the tumultuous events of the past few months and the Queen will have been glad that the Duke was on hand to offer his support around the time of Andrew's 'car crash' interview.

Philip travelled to Windsor to join his wife for their 72nd wedding anniversary on November 20 – shortly after the broadcast – and the Queen visited the Duke at Wood Farm the same month.

To see Philip's value in a crisis we only have to look back to the summer of the annus horribilis of 1992, when the breakdown of the marriage between Charles and Diana first became public knowledge. Philip reacted decisively and with tact, summoning Charles and Diana to Windsor for a summit.

Philip counselled against a formal separation and urged them to work for a compromise and to think of others – especially their sons – rather than themselves.

When Diana failed to attend a second meeting, he resorted to writing to her instead. As one courtier put it, 'the tougher the going, the better he is'.

Pictured: Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh

The Queen and Philip were also by each other's side when they visited the 18th Century Broadlands estate in Hampshire last month.

The ancestral Mountbatten home holds many happy memories. It is, after all, where they spent the first night of their honeymoon in November 1947 – joined by the Queen's favourite corgi, Susan, who had been squirrelled away under a rug in their carriage – and where the family have since enjoyed numerous weddings and celebrations.

Broadlands is of sentimental value to Philip in particular. It was his 'Uncle Dickie', Lord Louis Mountbatten, who introduced him to the young Princess Elizabeth when she was just 13. And it was in 1946 at nearby Romsey Abbey and the wedding of his cousin Patricia Mountbatten that rumours of a romance between Elizabeth and Philip began to emerge.

The Royal couple have been regular visitors over the years. They had been married for a decade and a half when, during a weekend at Broadlands with their three young children – Charles, Anne and Andrew – the Queen was overheard squealing in the hallway as Philip goosed her.

Hurrying his wife up the stairs, the pair giggled while the Queen shrieked: 'Stop it, Philip, stop it.'

It is said the cries could still be heard until the door of their bedroom closed.