She's been sharing glimpses of her idyllic family break with her social media followers over the past week.

And Fearne Cotton took her love for the snow to new heights as she defied the chilly weather by sporting minimal clothing during her festive Lapland break in Finland.

In an Instagram post on Sunday, the presenter, 38, revealed she attempted to complete Wim Hof's Iceman experience by withstanding the freezing temperature following a workout, but joked the challenge only lasted 'four seconds'.

'This only lasted four seconds': Fearne Cotton attempted to complete Wim Hof's Iceman experience by sporting minimal clothing during her festive Lapland break in Finland on Sunday

Appearing on cloud nine, the BBC star displayed her toned physique in a sporty black crop top, teamed with a pair of scanty hotpants.

The former Celebrity Juice judge went make-up free and even ditched her footwear as she larked outside.

Fearne captioned her post: 'At the start of the week in Finland an attempted @iceman_hof experience post work out that lasted all of 4 seconds. Still exhilarating!'

Extreme athlete Wim, 60, has baffled the world of science for decades with his bizarre ability to stand firm against cold temperatures, and has yet to enter a state of hypothermia.

Exciting times: The presenter, 38, has been enjoying her time in the Christmas destination with her husband Jesse Wood, 43, and their children Rex, six, Honey, four

Daredevil: Extreme athlete Wim, 60, has baffled the world of science for decades with his bizarre ability to stand firm against cold temperatures (pictured last year)

The Dutch star holds 21 Guinness World Records, scooping one for spending nearly two hours in an ice bath. Adults are recommended to spend no more than 10 minutes in one.

IS THERE TRUTH TO WIM HOF'S METHOD? When the human body is exposed to extreme cold, our core temperature drops, causing the body to enter a state of hypothermia, and eventually we freeze to death. But 57-year-old Wim Hof, from the Netherlands, has been able to spend nearly two hours in an ice bath and emerge unharmed. The Iceman, as he is known, has also run a full marathon above the Arctic Circle wearing just shorts. Hof puts his capabilities down to his self-developed meditation and breathing technique – known as the Wim Hof Method – enabling him to control his body’s autonomous hormonal responses. This was tested by researchers at Radboud University Medical Centre in the Netherlands as part of research into the treatment of autoimmune diseases. Hof was injected with endotoxin, a substance that tricks the body into thinking it is under bacterial attack. He should have developed a fever and flu-like symptoms but did not, so researchers concluded that there may be truth to his claims about his ability to suppress his automatic immune response.

Fearne has been enjoying her time in the Christmas destination with her husband Jesse Wood, 43, and their children Rex, six, Honey, four.

Revealing the trip has given her a well-deserved break from the real world, the blonde shared last week: 'Finland you are exceptional. Thank you for showing us your colours and enveloping us in your total silence.

'No plane, car or wind noise at all which allowed clarity and mental space I’d been so lacking. The kids have made memories that will last a lifetime and your people are friendly and so relaxed.

'I can only hope I’ve brought back a little of that attitude with me to busy London. Lapland love!'

Fearne recently discussed her 10-year battle with bulimia for the first time in a candid interview on How To Fail With Elizabeth Day podcast.

The host revealed she struggled with the eating disorder throughout her 20s, and managed to 'let go' of the 'bad habit overnight' when she became a mother.

She insisted her experience with bulimia was caused by Imposter Syndrome from establishing success on TV at the tender age of 15.

Fearne kicked off her career as a GMTV children's presenter for The Disney Club in 1996, before going on to front Top of the Pops, the Red Nose Day telethons and even became the first regular female presenter of the Radio 1 Chart Show in 2007.

And while she appeared to be leading a happy lifestyle, the Northwood native was hiding her battle with bulimia from her nearest and dearest, as well as the world.

'Finland you are exceptional': The blonde revealed the getaway has given her a well-deserved break from the real world

That's my boy! Rex enjoyed a spot of ice fishing on a frozen lake during the festive period

Breathtakingly beautiful: The family-of-four enjoyed a tour of the magical resort on a sleigh

On 'not feeling good or smart enough' at her job, Fearne admitted stress eventually manifested into the mental health condition.

She explained: 'The main one was a disordered ­relationship with my body and food for 10 years.

WHAT IS BULIMIA NERVOSA? According to the NHS, bulimia is 'an eating disorder and mental health condition' 'People who have bulimia go through periods where they eat a lot of food in a very short amount of time and then make themselves sick', the website adds, The eating disorder is most common in young women, and sufferers often have a distorted image of their figures Symptoms include: Binge eating

Purging

Fear of putting on weight

Critical about weight and body shape

Extreme mood changes

'It’s been this weird secret I’ve felt a little bit embarrassed of, a little bit ashamed of, a little bit worried about. I’m still worried now about what people are going to think when I share this side of myself.

'I had this new release I invented for myself – to have bulimia. I had that on/off for a good decade of my life.'

Sharing what would spark her on/off battle, the TV star added: 'In the beginning of my 20s it was quite intense and sort of ruled everything.

'In my later 20s it was more like a bad habit I’d kick into if something emotional was happening or if I felt out of control. It was my go-to thing but wasn’t as regular.'

Confessing only her mother Lyn knew she suffered from bulimia, the former Lorraine stand-in presenter elaborated: 'It was something no one knew about me because at times I was very overexposed.

'Partly it was about control. I had this first chunk of my life doing normal family things and the next chunk switched up and it was bonkers at times so it was a way of feeling I was calling the shots.

Struggles: Fearne recently discussed her 10-year battle with bulimia for the first time in a candid interview on How To Fail With Elizabeth Day podcast (pictured in 2000)

'I am sad to look back and see it was so out of control. I never binged and puked up. I ate regular meals but then got rid of it all and it felt like a release.'

The ex-Xtra Factor host also said her mum will 'probably be quite upset' about her public admission as 'it was a horrendous time.'

In 2011, Fearne started dating the son of Rolling Stones guitarist Ronnie Wood, and 'desperately' wanted to become a mother soon after they embarked on a romance.

On parenthood marking her turning point, the Only In America star shared: 'I’d met Jesse and wasn’t regularly purging but it would still be a fallback if things felt stressful. At this point I desperately wanted to have a baby.

'Getting pregnant, I let go of all of it. I ate everything in sight. It just went overnight.It came back, the feelings of loathing about my body after the birth, but I didn’t go back to the illness.

'I knew I had to stick to a very practical way of looking at food to sustain my health for myself and my newborn baby.'