A man arrested on suspicion of murder over the deaths of two women attacked in a village in West Sussex is “very unstable” in hospital, police have said.

Emergency services were called to a house on Hazel Way, Crawley Down, on Sunday morning and found the two women outside and a man seriously injured inside.

Sussex Police confirmed the women were aged 32 and 76 and that the 37-year-old suspect was found injured inside the property. He was arrested and taken to Royal Sussex County Hospital.

Police forensics officers at the scene on Sunday (Gareth Fuller/PA)

Detective Chief Inspector Alex Geldart, of Surrey and Sussex major crime team, confirmed one of the victims was known to the suspect and added it was not a knife attack.

She said: “This is a tragic incident which has led to the death of two local women, one of whom was known to the suspect.

“Members of the public, police and paramedics did all they could to help the victims but sadly the two women died at the scene.

“I extend my heartfelt sympathies to their families, who are being supported by specialist trained officers. I ask that people respect their privacy at this distressing time.

“Extensive inquiries are taking place along with a forensic examination, and any speculation by the media as to what has happened is unhelpful. This was not a knife attack. A cordon will remain in the area while we gather evidence and we appreciate the support and understanding of local residents.”

Chief Superintendent Jerry Westerman, West Sussex divisional commander, added: “This is an isolated yet shocking incident that has shaken many in the community.

“We are thankful to them for supporting officers as they go about their inquiries.

Police at the scene in Hazel Way, Crawley Down (Gareth Fuller/PA)

“While we are investigating, officers will be available in the area over the next few days to reassure the community and if anyone wants to talk to them about their concerns or if they have any information they should talk with them.”

Three forensic tents were pitched in the street, while residents said 10 police cars had initially been dispatched to the scene to deal with the incident.

Investigators in white forensic suits have been combing the area for evidence.

A police cordon remains in place around the houses close to where the bodies were found.

A message written on a bouquet of flowers at the police cordon, which was guarded by uniformed officers, read: “A terrible tragedy. Rest in peace.”

A woman who lives nearby but did not want to give her name said: “We opened the curtains and saw the police cars and could see that something significant had happened.

The resident, who did not know those who had died, described waking up to the news of the killings as “a pure shock,” adding: “It is the sadness of it all, especially at this time of year.

“You think of the people whose lives are going to be affected. You cannot help them, so you just have a sick feeling.”