She knows how to effortlessly mix comfort and style.

And Sofia Richie did just that when she attended the MDL Beast Festival on Saturday in Saudi Arabia.

The 21-year-old was joined by an array of models and Hollywood stars for the festival that saw the likes of David Guetta, Martin Garrix and Steve Aoki perform.

Scroll down for video

Leading the stars: Sofia Richie kept things cool and casual for an appearance at the MDL Beast Festival in Saudi Arabia with fellow models and actors on Saturday

Sofia rocked a black sweater with cut outs with showed a white top underneath.

She teamed the look with a pair of high waisted trousers and a pair of square-toed boots.

The girlfriend of Scott Disick styled her blonde hair out with a soft curve at its length.

Fashionista: Sofia rocked a black sweater with cut outs with showed a white top underneath

Keeping warm: Joining the beauty was fellow model Romee Strijd who also sported an all-black ensemble

Sofia's glam was kept simple with a dewy complexion, bronzed cheekbones and a plump nude lip.

Joining the beauty was fellow model Romee Strijd who also sported an all-black ensemble.

She opted for an oversized sweater underneath a leather jacket.

Designer look: The Dutch model accessorised with a Louis Vuitton cross-body bag

Reunion! Close pals Irina Shayk, Stella Maxwell and Joan Smalls were also in attendance

Chic: Stella was in a black denim jacket on top of a gorgeous ivory colored slip dress and combat boots

The Dutch model accessorised with a Louis Vuitton cross-body bag.

Romee styled her blonde tresses out into voluminous waves for the festival event on Saturday.

She kept her glam fresh with healthy blushed cheeks and a nude plump lip like Sofia.

Having a good time: Irina, Stella and Joan shared a hug while the watched the concert from the VIP stands

Unique style: Joan Smalls rocked a denim jumpsuit and a pair of strappy heeled sandals

Irina Shayk was also in attendance alongside other models Stella Maxwell and Joan Smalls.

Irina wore a black T-shirt and white jeans which she rolled up and put on a matching denim jacket.

And despite it being night time, she accessorised with a rectangular pair of shades and a necklace.

A-list stars: Also in attendance was Megan Williams and actor Ed Westwick

Look who's here! Ryan Phillippe also made an appearance on Saturday evening in a layered look

Stella was in a black denim jacket on top of a gorgeous ivory colored slip dress and combat boots.

The ex girlfriend of Kristin Stewart also wore sunglasses and styled her hair into loose waves.

Joan Smalls joined the duo in a denim jumpsuit and a pair of strappy heeled sandals.

She slicked back her dark hair and opted for a cat-eye for her show glam.

Actor Ryan Phillippe also made an appearance on Saturday night.

He wore a graphic T-shirt underneath an insulated jacket and even found a moment to pose with film producer, Mohammed Al Turki.

Friends: Ryan wore a graphic T-shirt underneath an insulated jacket and even found a moment to pose with film producer, Mohammed Al Turki

Designer look: Brooklyn Beckham's girlfriend, Hannah Cross stunned in a leather jacket and Balenciaga shirt

Gracing his presence: Wilmer Valderrama opted for a khaki look at the festival lunch ahead of the big night concert

Mix and match: Sofia showed off her casual chic look in a set of three Instagram snaps posted Saturday while in Saudi Arabia

High and low: The model showed off her sultry pout while wearing a baggy beige sweater and a pair of high-waisted black pinstripe slacks