Andy Robertson hilariously proved that he has his teammates' back when cameras caught him telling Sadio Mane that he'd get revenge for the yellow card he had just been given in Saturday's Club World Cup final.

Mane was given a harsh booking in the final minute of the first half for a foul on Flamengo's Rafinha, something the forward made clear he was not pleased about.

The referee blew the whistle for half-time moments later and Robertson quickly assured Mane that he would make amends for what had just happened.

Scroll down for video

Andy Robertson (left) tells Sadio Mane that he will gain revenge on Flamengo's Rafinha (right)

The Reds star made it clear that he was not impressed with the Brazilian full-back's actions

As they walked off Robertson could be seen approaching Mane, saying: 'Sadio, I'll get him don't worry'.

He not only said it to Mane, but did so right in front of Rafinha, who seemed to get the message.

It ended up being a happy night for Mane and Robertson with Roberto Firmino scoring an extra-time winner as the Reds were crowned Club World Cup champions.

The Brazil international finally broke the deadlock with a cool finish to ease the feeling of injustice which had unfolded deep into added time at the end of 90 minutes.

Jurgen Klopp's side had a penalty chalked off by VAR after Qatari referee Abdulrahman Al Jassim consulted his pitch-side monitor and ruled Mane had been fouled outside the area.

Liverpool celebrate after beat Flamengo to lift the Club World Cup on Saturday night in Doha

However, instead of a free-kick and red card for Rafinha Al Jassim awarded a drop-ball to Flamengo, just the latest on a night of strange decisions.

At that point it seemed it was going to be fourth time unlucky for Liverpool, who had come up short in this competition in 1981, 1984 and 2005.

However, Firmino - who had missed the first chance after just 42 seconds - finished off a sweeping move started by Jordan Henderson, benefiting from Mane's hold-up play and lay-off 10 minutes into the first 15 extra minutes.

It was an historic goal which saw the Reds become the first English side to win an unprecedented treble of Champions League, European Super Cup and Club World Cup.