She was named the most influential lingerie model in 2018.

And Candice Swanepoel used her star power to promote some activewear on Saturday.

The 31-year-old beauty stripped down to just a pair of leggings for the racy shoot.

Scroll down for video

Topless: Candice Swanepoel opted to workout topless on Saturday morning. The beauty rocked a pair of white sheer leggings before posing up a storm for her 14 million followers.

Candice was topless and merely wore a pair of white sheer Alo Yoga leggings, retailing for $88.

She posed up a storm in front of a white wall and appeared to be wearing very little to no makeup.

The beauty's blonde tresses were effortlessly styled out and she shared a sultry pose down the camera lens.

No need for a top! Candice was topless and merely wore a pair of white sheer Alo Yoga leggings, retailing for $88

Did she make it to the gym? 'I may or may not have worked out..' she captioned

'I may or may not have worked out..' she captioned.

Candice rocked a zebra printed bikini of a blue sage color retailing for $170 for the shoot.

And while promoting the two-piece swim set, all eyes were on her enviable trim and toned physique.

The Victoria's Secret Angel had her top untied and only just keeping her modest and abiding by the Instagram guidelines.

Baring all: Candice Swanepoel left little to the imagination on Saturday when she posed up a storm in racy bikini's on Instagram for her followers

Stunner: And while promoting the two-piece swim set, all eyes were on her enviable trim and toned physique

Baring all: The Victoria's Secret Angel had her top untied and only just keeping her modest and abiding by the Instagram guidelines

Candice appeared to be in a steam or shower for the shoot and had her blonde hair soaking wet.

Her makeup saw her with a bronzed and dewy complexion with a dark smokey eye.

The model revealed earlier in the year that her latest collection was 'a love letter to Africa' adding, 'I left South Africa when I was 16 years old to pursue my career, but it never left me.'

Bringing back to her hometown: The model revealed earlier in the year that her latest collection was 'a love letter to Africa' adding, 'I left South Africa when I was 16 years old to pursue my career, but it never left me'

Over: Candice's split from her fiancé Hermann Nicoli earlier in the year after 14 years together (pictured in 2013)

'You do not choose to live in Africa, Africa lives in you, and I carry Africa with me every day.'

Candice launched her brand, Topic Of C, two years ago.

'Tropic Of C is a brand with purpose, partnering with like-minded people to make a positive impact on the environment & beyond,' it says on her website.

Mom-of-two: Candice juggles her career with being a mother to her two sons Anacã, three, and Ariel, 1, who she shares with her former fiancé Hermann Nicoli

'This vision is realized through our core values of sustainability, empowerment, community and quality.'

Candice juggles her career with being a mother to her two sons Anacã, three, and Ariel, 1, who she shares with her former fiancé Hermann Nicoli.

The pair began dating when she was just 17 after meeting in Paris.

They were engaged in August 2015 after ten years together but split earlier in the year.