Margot Robbie told millions of Americans that Australia's TV Week Logie Awards is 'just a big p**s-up' while appearing on Jimmy Kimmel Live! this week.

The 29-year-old admitted that she thought she may have died after passing out drunk in a toilet cubicle at the prestigious ceremony back in 2010.

'Everyone gets absolutely hammered. People are drunk the next day going to work,' began Margot, who first attended the Logies in 2009 while on Neighbours.

'Everyone gets hammered': Margot Robbie (pictured) told millions of Americans that Australia's Logie Awards is 'just a big p**s-up' while appearing on Jimmy Kimmel Live! this week

Discussing award shows in general, Margot first admitted the Logies are the 'funnest' and compared them to the 'wild west' - despite having not been in almost a decade.

She said: 'I was 18, so of course I was very excited about going to the Logies. The second year I went, I got so drunk I passed out in one of the toilet stalls.

'I woke up and it happened to be in the one hour that the [venue] is closed for cleaning. There was no one there, and it was such a weird surreal experience.'

'Weird surreal experience': The 29-year-old admitted that she thought she may have died after passing out drunk in a toilet cubicle at the prestigious ceremony back in 2010 (pictured then)

'For a second, I was like, 'Did I die? Is this purgatory? Am I in between heaven and hell right now? This is so weird',' Margot told Jimmy (pictured) after waking up in the Logies toilet

Margot continued: 'For a second, I was like, 'Did I die? Is this purgatory? Am I in between heaven and hell right now? This is so weird''.

'I showed up to work [on Neighbours] then in my gown, and a nurse had to give me some oxygen and I felt great afterwards.'

The Queensland-born actress explained to Jimmy that Neighbours and Home and Away are the biggest shows at the Logies, but the cast don't get any time off.

'Everyone gets absolutely hammered. People are drunk the next day going to work,' said Margot, who first attended the Logies in 2009 (pictured then) while on Neighbours

'You have to work the next day because you film all year round. People show up in their gowns, people show up still drunk,' joked Margot.

Margot then appeared to discuss Karl Stefanovic, who famously appeared on the Today show's post-Logie coverage still drunk in 2009.

'A really famous talk show host did The Morning Show completely wasted - and Australia loved him more after that. It's very much embraced,' she said.

Since leaving Australia and becoming one of Hollywood's biggest stars, Margot is more likely to be found at the Academy Awards than the Logies.