The post-mortem has already begun after AC Milan's hopeless 5-0 thrashing at the hands of Atalanta on Sunday.

Stafano Pioli's side, one of the giants of Italian football, fell to an embarrassing defeat that national press picked the bones out of on Monday.

La Gazzetta dello Sport ran the headline: 'Save Milan!', and said the club were 'in hell', adding that they are 'at a crossroads' and the 'time for a decision has come'.

La Gazzetta dello Sport were among the Italian papers to dissect AC Milan's thrashing

Hakan Calhanoglu's expression summed it up for the visitors as Atalanta completed a rout

Most of the newspapers lead on Lazio's Italian Super Cup triumph over Juventus but included a section on the situation at Milan.

Corriere dello Sport wrote that Atalanta had 'destroyed the Rossoneri' while Tuttosport reflected that the 18-time Italian champions had been 'destroyed' by a 'turbo' team.

They also noted that Milan were 'sluggish and unrecognisable with Gianluigi Donnarumma in tears.

The onslaught began with an absolutely stunning individual run and finish from Alejandro Gomez down the left flank.

Tuttosport went with Lazio as their main story but also picked over the bones of Milan's defeat

There was also a section in Corriere dello Sport about Gianluigi Donnarumma in tears

Mario Pasalic then flicked a touch to claim the second before the floodgates truly opened for La Dea. Josip Illicic then grabbed two for himself before Luis Muriel rounded off the rout by latching onto a through ball and taking it past the goalkeeper.

Pioli was drafted in on October 9 to take the hotseat in Milan and is already under huge pressure but it seems the problems lie deeper than that.

He is the ninth manager in just five years at the San Siro club and the malaise has settled in.

They are now in the bottom half of the table behind the likes of Torino and Bologna with Atalanta competing on an altogether different footing.

Gian Piero Gasperini's men are now up to fifth and four points away from Roma in fourth having already reached the Champions League knockout stages for the first time in the club's history this season.

La Dea were brilliant and scored a hatful of high quality goals at Gewiss Stadium