Advertisement

Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sofia of Sweden looked stylish as ever as they attended a festive Christmas concert in the run-up to Christmas.

Brunette beauty Sofia arrived with her husband, 40, with whom she shares two children, as they arrived at Gustav Vasa Church in Vasastan, Stockholm on Saturday evening.

The princess, 35, wore a simple black top and long black boots paired with a bold pink mid-length skirt.

Princess Sofia of Sweden and Prince Carl Philip of Sweden attend the concert Christmas in Vasastan at Gustaf Vasa Church on December 21

Brunette beauty Sofia arrived at the concert with her husband Carl Philip, 40, with whom she shares two children

Princess Sofia and Prince Carl Philip stop for a photo as they attend a Christmas concert in Gustav Vasa Church in Stockholm

Princess Sofia of Sweden and Prince Carl Philip of Sweden arrive at the church without their children on Saturday evening

Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sofia of Sweden are given a warm greeting as they arrive at the church. The princess, 35, wore a simple black top and long black boots paired with a bold pink mid-length skirt

Her glossy locks were kept straight and hung loosely around her shoulders.

Price Carl Philip, sporting a light beard and his classic slicked back hair, cut a dashing figure in a blue suit with a red tie for the occasion.

Carl-Philip, 40, is the second child of the king Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden and Queen Silvia.

Price Carl Philip, sporting a light beard and his classic slicked back hair, cut a dashing figure in a blue suit with a red tie for the occasion

Sofia's glossy locks were kept straight and hung loosely around her shoulders

The Swedish royal couple are all smiles as they take their seats in the church, above and below

Carl Philip, 40, is the second child of the king Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden and Queen Silvia

Molly Sanden, Prince Carl Philip, Princess Sofia, Gladys del Pilar and Fredrik Benedict at the concert on Saturday evening

The royal pair were joined at the church by Swedish singers Molly Sanden and Gladys del Pilar.

The glamorous couple tied the knot in 2015 and share two-year-old son Prince Alexander, Duke of Södermanland, and one-year-old Prince Gabriel, Duke of Dalarna who are fifth and sixth in line to the Swedish throne.

Before marrying the prince, Sofia was a model and reality TV contestant. The pair dated for five years before walking down the aisle and live together in the upmarket Djurgården district of Stockholm.

Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sofia married in the royal palace's chapel, with the bride wearing a lace wedding dress created by local designer Ida Sjöstedt.

Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sofia of Sweden attend the Christmas concert on Saturday evening. The glamorous couple tied the knot in 2015 and share two-year-old son Prince Alexander, Duke of Södermanland, and one-year-old Prince Gabriel, Duke of Dalarna who are fifth and sixth in line to the Swedish throne

Princess Sofia of Sweden and Prince Carl Philip of Sweden attend the concert Christmas in Vasastan at Gustaf Vasa Church on December 21