It's the second day they've been spotted hitting the snowy slopes in Aspen, Colorado.

And Leonardo DiCaprio and his model girlfriend, Camila Morrone, looked ready for the cold weather as they geared up to go skiing on Friday.

The 45-year-old actor sported a heavy black puffer jacket over a black sweater and matching black padded pants.

Dressed up warm: Leo DiCaprio, 45, and his supermodel girlfriend Camila Morrone, 22, look set to take on the slopes in Aspen, Colorado, on Friday

The Once Upon A Time In Hollywood star's face was barely visible in a black ski mask that he pulled up to just under his nose.

With his crash helmet, ski goggles and sunglasses obscuring his face, Leo was almost unrecognizable.

Camila, 22, wore a black quilted jacket, black pants and a mask for their ski session.

She also donned a crash hat, sunglasses and goggles with her brunette tresses streaming over her shoulders.

Covering up: The Hollywood star was barely recognizable in a black puffa jacket over a black sweater and matching black padded pants with a face mask, goggles and sunglasses

The loved up couple took a ride up the mountain on a ski-lift before bombing down the slopes.

It's not clear whether the couple intend to celebrate the holiday season in Aspen, but it would certainly be magical there.

It would be a welcome break for Leo who has four projects lined up.

He has Killers Of The Flower Moon, a murder mystery co-starring Robert De Niro and directed by Martin Scorsese, in pre-production for release in 2021.

Read to go: Camila, 22, wore a black quilted jacket, black pants and a mask for their ski session. She also donned a crash hat, sunglasses and goggles with her brunette tresses streaming over her shoulders

The Black Hand, about a cop who takes on a ruthless Italian-American gang in New York, is also in pre-production and hasn't set any dates.

Leo also has Hulu TV series The Devil In The White City on the go, with Scorsese as an executive producer.

Set in the build up the 1893 World's Fair, a serial killer uses the event to attract his female victims.

And he is also set to star in Scorsese's Roosevelt biopic about US President Theodore Roosevelt.