A vegan activist has been reunited with her pet pig Jixy Pixy just in time for Christmas after the RSPCA lifted a ban on her seeing him after she kept the animal in her tiny two-bed-flat.

Alicia Day celebrated the return of the porker by feeding it an entire tin of ginger biscuits and has said a weight has been 'lifted from her heart'.

The 31-year-old, who lives in west London, had rescued the pig almost two months ago but had to give it up just days after.

But the charity is now feeling festive and has given Alicia an early Christmas present by allowing her to spend time with the hog.

Jixy Pixy is seen above tucking into a huge box of ginger biscuits which Alicia Day got him for Christmas

Alicia (left) now says a 'weight has been lifted' after the RSPCA allowed her to see the pig, she is pictured right with Jixy Pixywhen she first adopted him

She said: 'It is a weight lifted from my heart. I spent an hour and a half with him and he liked having his belly rubbed.

'I brought him 10 Christmas presents but he was too busy eating the grass to even recognise me.

'He was so greedy and ate the tin of ginger biscuits I gave him at once.'

The New Yorker saw an ad for the pig and paid £30 for him, fearing he would end up being eaten.

Alicia said she had purchased the pig Christmas presents but that he had been 'too busy' to recognise her

The animal was advertised by a farm in Exeter, Devon, which Alicia visited before taking him back to her tiny pad in Southall, west London, in a £400 taxi.

She spent four days bathing with her beloved pet pig and even took him to Wagamama before her horrified landlord booted her out on November 4.

Animal rights groups blasted Alicia's 'shocking lack of judgement', saying keeping a pig in unsuitable conditions was cruel.

On Friday morning Alicia was invited to a pet boarding company in Faversham, Kent, which is looking after the pig until it is rehomed.

The animal lover even gifted the pig with a festive collar (pictured wearing the collar above)

Alicia said spending weeks without seeing 'her baby' had left her devastated.

She added: 'I am not ashamed to say I cried multiple times a day.

'This visit has now put me at ease that he is not lonely.

'He doesn't seem bothered about me which sucks but at the same time I am glad he is not sad or lonely.

'The last time I saw him he was screaming and trying to get away from the RSPCA van.'

Alicia said rescuing Jixy Pixy from slaughter has 'propelled her into vegan activism' and said many people have ditched meat after reading her story.

She added: 'The main argument against vegetarianism and veganism is the food chain and I absolutely agree.

'We can eat animals because everyone else does but how about considering having mercy even though we have the power to dominate them.'

Jixy Pixy is soon being moved to a permanent home and Alicia has been promised future visits.

She has also been assured that the pig will never be slaughtered - something she says has made everything worthwhile.

Alicia now lives in Hayes, west London, and is recording a 'pop vegan' song this month.

She claims her voice is 'good and on point' and she also hopes to write a children's book about Jixy Pixy next year.

Alicia is a masters graduate in international business and stopped eating meat aged 12 before becoming a vegan this year.