A Christmas-mad mother who met backlash in 2015 for spending £1,500 on approximately 300 presents shared a video of her latest festive splurge.

Emma Tapping, 39, captured a mountain of wrapped gifts stacked on her sofa and floor with Wham!'s 'Last Christmas' playing in the background.

Emma Tapping, 39, shared a video on Instagram of her latest festive haul, capturing dozens of presents piled up on her sofa and floor with Wham!'s 'Last Christmas' heard in the background

The neatly-wrapped presents are covered in a variety of wrapping paper. Ms Tapping captioned 'roll on the big day' in the post

The mother-of-three, from the Isle of Man, covered the gifts in a variety of wrapping paper.

Ms Tapping captioned the Instagram post: 'I’ve managed to make another #magical #christmas for my family. Lots of planning.

'Lots of sales and deals. Roll on the big day.'

Social media users reacted to the video, with one commenting: 'Well done for working hard all year, hope your kids have a fantastic day Merry Christmas.'

Another said: 'Aww wonderful. Where do you hide it all lol I struggle to hide a few things.'

A third added: 'This is what I aim for.'

The mother-of-three, from the Isle of Man, pictured previously appearing in the Channel 5 documentary 'Xmas Excess: Parents Splash The Cash'

The 39-year-old first hit the headlines in December 2015 after a picture of her tree with nearly 300 presents piled underneath went viral

But others were less positive, with one writing: 'Be less materialistic'.

Ms Tapping hit back at the social media user, replying: 'Be less judgemental.'

The 39-year-old has faced criticism over the hoards of presents in previous years.

She first hit the headlines in December 2015 after a picture of her tree with nearly 300 presents piled underneath went viral.

Many thought it was too extravagant but just as many supported Emma, praising her for doing what she likes with her own money.

In 2016 the mother appeared on This Morning to defend her excessive spending after admitting she previously spent £1,500 on gifts for her children.

Ms Tapping told Holly Willoughby and Phillip Schofield that she works for everything bought and doesn't see it as spoiling her children or ruining the spirit of Christmas.

Ms Tapping has defended her excessive spending during an appearance on This Morning in 2016, after admitting she previously spent £1,500 on gifts for her children

She explained: 'I'm not asking anyone else for a penny of the money, I am paying for the kids all by myself.'

She added: 'I think if I was giving them 365 gifts a year then I would be spoiling them.

'We don't go out drinking Jagerbombs on a weekend. We work hard all year round, if that's what we decide to spend our money on then so be it.'

The mother-of-three also defended any suggestion that her children didn't use all of the gifts that were bought for them.

Referring to a Channel 5 documentary she was previously featured in, 'Xmas Excess: Parents Splash The Cash', she said: 'I think it showed that there was a popcorn maker and a notepad that Ella hasn't used.