Police have evacuated a Christmas market in Berlin that was targeted in a deadly attack three years ago in what turned out to be a false alarm involving an apparent case of mistaken identity.

Berlin police tweeted on Saturday evening that they were evacuating hundreds of people from the market on the Breitscheidplatz square due to indications of a 'dangerous item'.

Two men from Syria were arrested, according to local media reports earlier today.

Berlin police tweeted on Saturday evening they were evacuating hundreds of people from the market on the Breitscheidplatz square due to indications of a 'dangerous item'

In 2016 Tunisian Anis Amri ploughed a truck into the Christmas market at Breitscheidplatz, killing 12 people

Two men from Syria were questioned, according to local media reports today

German newspaper Bild reported police were with two 'Islamist perpetrators' who it said had experience with explosives.

But officers later said two men had attracted officers' attention because of their behaviour but were not arrested.

In 2016 Tunisian Anis Amri ploughed a truck into the Christmas market at Breitscheidplatz, killing 12 people.

One of the two suspects had been living in the western German state of North Rhine-Westphalia.

Initial suspicions there was an arrest warrant for the other, which arose because his name apparently was similar to someone on a wanted list, turned out to be unfounded.

There were no arrests, but police said they decided to act because of the location's history.

One of the two had been living in the western German state of North Rhine-Westphalia

Initial suspicions there was an arrest warrant for the other, which arose because his name apparently was similar to someone on a wanted list, turned out to be unfounded

Police said measures surrounding Breitscheidplatz had ended at around 9.30pm GMT and that they did not find a 'dangerous item'

People re-enter the Christmas market in Berlin after police reopened it after not finding a suspicious item

As many as 350 officers were deployed.

Police confirmed measures surrounding Breitscheidplatz had ended at around 9.30pm GMT and they did not find a 'dangerous item'.

Amri, drove a stolen truck into the Christmas market on December 19, 2016, killing 12 people, before fleeing the scene.

The 24-year-old ISIS fanatic was stopped after arriving in the suburb of Sesto San Giovanni in the northern Italian city of Milan at about 3am local time on December 23.

Amri, drove a stolen truck into the Christmas market on December 19, 2016, killing 12 people, before fleeing the scene (pictured)

Two officers asked him for ID documents, at which point Amri 'immediately' pulled a gun from his backpack and shouted 'police b******s' as he shot one in the shoulder.

A firefight ensued with Amri cowering behind a car as he tried to flee, but the extremist was shot and killed by the second officer – a trainee who had only been in the job a few months.

Witnesses said the two policemen had then crouched over Amri in a bid to keep him alive, but the Tunisian died after ten minutes.

Amri was made Europe's most wanted man after being identified as the perpetrator, but only after German authorities initially detained the wrong suspect.

Pakistani refugee Naveed Baluch, 23, was taken in for questioning after being arrested around a mile from the scene.

However, he was subsequently released without charge, prompting fears that the real attacker was still at large.

Amri was identified after his wallet was found in the cab of the vehicle, but the German police were slammed as to how this took so long to find, with many critics saying it was 'too convenient' as it had not been found sooner.