This is the moment angry parents clashed in Hamleys as tempers boiled over in front of young children during Christmas shopping.

Families looking to get some last minute festive gifts raged at each other in a fight over the lift in the iconic toy shop.

One parent can be heard screaming 'f*** you' at another as horrified young children looked on.

The scene (pictured) erupted a the Regents Street store in front of horrified children on Friday

Pictured: Shoppers scream at one another in Hamleys after a row over a lift at the toy store

Security guards at the world-famous toy store had to separate the fuming shoppers before it got even more ugly.

The scrap happened at the Hamleys flagship store in Regents Street, London on Friday afternoon.

The 259-year-old toy emporium was teeming with shoppers just days before Christmas, desperate to get some last minute gifts for their children.

Hamleys top 10 toys this Christmas Scruff-a-Luv's My Real Rescue -£40 Coding Critters - £40 Pictionary Air - £20 Smart Pixellator - £70 L.O.L Surprise Chalet Dollhouse - £250 Poopsie Surprise Dolls - £50 Nerf Fortnite RL - £30 Oblique DRifter - £60 Lego Hidden Side Paranormal Bus 3000 - £55 Linkimals, Smooth Moves Sloth - £35

Families with prams and bags were queuing to use the lift to get into the seven-floor store, full of thousands of different games and toys.

The brawl was sparked when a family reportedly cut the queue.

A group standing in a lift gestures for another woman to join them and chaos erupts. Families begin jostling and screaming abuse at one another.

One woman yells 'f**k you' repeatedly in front of horrified young children.

The festive spirit went out the window, and furious parents turned Scrooge.

Security guards had to step in to stop the brawl boiling over.

Bystanders caught up in the incident were forced leave the store without purchasing their Christmas presents. One can be heard saying: 'Let's go, it's not worth it.'

An eyewitness said: 'The fight took place because the women on the right refused to join the queue like everyone else.

'Instead when the lift doors opened they just pushed their way in from the exit walkway.

'Obviously the people in the queue were not happy and the girl in the lift who was on the left side told them they had to get out. It all kicked off. I stopped filming when it got nasty.'

Fortunately the Hamleys security team managed to get things under control, and police did not have to be called.

The toy store has been contacted for comment