Seven men have been charged over a pub brawl that killed 19-year-old Patrick Cronin, as his parents beg for closure three years on from the deadly assault.

The footballer was hit in a one-punch attack outside the Windy Mile pub in Diamond Creek in Melbourne in April 2016.

Andrew William Lee was jailed for eight years in 2017 for manslaughter after pleading guilty to hitting the teenager outside the pub.

In August, Lee was ordered by the Supreme Court to pay $170,972 in compensation to the young man's family.

Investigators believe up to 30 people were involved in the late-night brawl.

Patrick Cronin died at the Royal Melbourne Hospital in 2016 after he was punched in the back of the head during a bar brawl

Patrick Cronin (left) had played his first senior football game alongside his sibling Lucas before heading to Windy Mile pub in Diamond Creek where the brawl erupted

Patrick was assaulted outside the bar while walking to his home in Eltham at about 11pm on 16 April.

The teenager remained on his feet and even walked back to a nearby home with friends.

But when he began to feel ill later in the night he was taken to hospital.

Mr Cronin had suffered severe bleeding to the brain from the blow and died in hospital the following day.

On Monday, police charged seven men with affray, including a 30-year-old from Montmorency, three men in their 30s from Diamond Creek, a 35-year-old Eltham North man, a 32-year-old from Greensborough and a 35-year-old from Panton Hill.

They will appear in Heidelberg Magistrates' Court in May next year.

Patrick's parents Matt and Robyn have spoken of their devastation.

Mr Cronin (second from right) had suffered severe bleeding to the brain from the blow and died in hospital the following day

'Christmas should be a time of celebration for the family and here we are more than three years later, and we still haven't received closure,' the family said in a statement on Monday.

'It's something we live with every day, the loss of Pat.

'This is why we've set up the Pat Cronin Foundation – to educate and make people aware that these acts of cowardly violence should never be tolerated.

'We're pleased to see charges being laid today. We know we need to wait for the right process to follow, but we look forward to an outcome.'