Romelu Lukaku scored two goals and set up another as Inter Milan beat relegation-threatened Genoa 4-0 on Saturday to move level on points with Juventus at the top of the Serie A table heading into the winter break.

Lukaku could have had a hat trick but allowed teenage forward Sebastiano Esposito to take a second-half penalty. The 17-year-old Esposito converted for his first goal on his first Serie A start.

Esposito was in tears after the match, when he immediately went up to hug his mother.

"It압 been a fantastic week, I can't lie, I didn앖 sleep a lot thinking about how this game would go," Esposito said. "I앇 like to thank the team, the coach, the club and Romelu, especially for the goal ... He told me to be sure of myself when I stepped up to strike the ball and to score.

"Theyre all great people before theyre professionals. I found myself in sync with Romelu right away, he압 a fantastic person who압 always looking to help me, he reassured me a lot by saying that everything would go alright and I앐 so happy to have scored."

Esposito became Inter's second youngest goalscorer after Mario Corso. He stepped up to the senior ranks this season and had an impressive Champions League debut in October, despite having only previously played 17 minutes for Inter압 first team.

Inter Milan's Romelu Lukaku celebrates after scoring his side's opening goal during a Serie A soccer match between Inter Milan and Genoa, at the San Siro stadium in Milan, Italy, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. (AP Photo/Luca Bruno)

"He was practically a child when he arrived at the training camp this summer, but he압 grown massively in the last few months and I had said that at some unexpected point I앇 be counting on him in times of need," Inter coach Antonio Conte said.

"He had a big chance today and he certainly made the most of it. He압 got a great future ahead of him, both his family and myself will help him, and if he continues like this then he앏l only improve."

Inter needed the win to spend the festive period joint top of the table after Juventus won at Sampdoria midweek.

However, Inter was on a three-match winless streak that had seen it slip to second and crash out of the Champions League, and Lukaku압 strike partner, Lautaro Mart暗ez, was suspended.

Genoa was second from bottom and had lost its previous six matches at Inter, scoring just once.

Inter broke the deadlock with two goals in quick succession. Lukaku headed in Antonio Candreva압 cross in the 31st minute and turned provider two minutes later for Roberto Gagliardini압 deflected strike.

Lukaku could have doubled his tally shortly after the hour mark when Inter was awarded a penalty for Kevin Agudelo압 foul on Gagliardini. But the Belgium forward gave the ball to Esposito, who celebrated wildly after converting.

Lukaku did get a second in the 71st, taking his tally to 12 in Serie A since his move from Manchester United in the offseason.

SURPRISE LOSS

Cagliari압 Champions League bid took a hit as it lost 2-1 at struggling Udinese.

Cagliari remains fifth but is six points below Roma and the final qualifying position for Europe압 premier club competition.

Udinese moved five points above the relegation zone ahead of the rest of the weekend압 fixtures.

The home side led from the 39th as Rodrigo De Paul curled in a magnificent opener.

Cagliari thought it had secured a point when Joao Pedro leveled with six minutes remaining but Seko Fofana restored Udinese압 lead less than a minute later.

Fabio Pisacane was sent off in injury time for a second yellow card to add to Cagliari압 misery.

OFF THE BOTTOM

Spal picked up its first victory since the beginning of October as it came from behind to win 2-1 at Torino and move off the bottom of the table.

Gabriel Strefezza and Andrea Petagna scored to end Spal's nine-match winless run.

Tomas Rincon had given Torino the lead in the fourth minute but the home side had to play 35 minutes with 10 men after defender Bremer was sent off following a second yellow card, with the score at 1-1.

Spal moved a point above Genoa and three points from safety.

___

More AP soccer: https://apnews.com/Soccer and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports

Inter Milan's Romelu Lukaku, left, hands the ball to teammate Sebastiano Esposito to kick a penalty, during a Serie A soccer match between Inter Milan and Genoa, at the San Siro stadium in Milan, Italy, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. (AP Photo/Luca Bruno)

Inter Milan's Sebastiano Esposito celebrates with his teammate Romelo Lukaku after scoring his side's third goal during a Serie A soccer match between Inter Milan and Genoa, at the San Siro stadium in Milan, Italy, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. (AP Photo/Luca Bruno)

Inter Milan's Romelu Lukaku, left, blows a kiss as he celebrates after scoring his side's fourth goal during a Serie A soccer match between Inter Milan and Genoa, at the San Siro stadium in Milan, Italy, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. (AP Photo/Luca Bruno)

Inter Milan's Romelu Lukaku fires a shot during a Serie A soccer match between Inter Milan and Genoa, at the San Siro stadium in Milan, Italy, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. (AP Photo/Luca Bruno)

Inter Milan's Sebastiano Esposito celebrates after scoring his side's third goal during a Serie A soccer match between Inter Milan and Genoa, at the San Siro stadium in Milan, Italy, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. (AP Photo/Luca Bruno)

Inter Milan's Sebastiano Esposito scores on a penalty his side's third goal during a Serie A soccer match between Inter Milan and Genoa, at the San Siro stadium in Milan, Italy, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. (AP Photo/Luca Bruno)

Inter Milan's head coach Antonio Conte gives indications during a Serie A soccer match between Inter Milan and Genoa, at the San Siro stadium in Milan, Italy, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. (AP Photo/Luca Bruno)

Inter Milan's head coach Antonio Conte waves to fans at the end of the Serie A soccer match between Inter Milan and Genoa, at the San Siro stadium in Milan, Italy, Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019. Inter won 4-0. AP Photo/Luca Bruno)