She turned 30 on December 18.

And Cara Delevingne treated girlfriend Ashley Benson to a surprise trip to Morocco to celebrate.

On Saturday, the Pretty Little Liars star shared a slew of snaps from their trip, captioned: 'Morocco has always been a place I've wanted to visit. I faced so many fears and took on new adventures with my best friend by my side.

Balloon with a view: Cara Delevingne, right, treated girlfriend Ashley Benson to a surprise trip to Morocco to celebrate her 30th birthday, including brunch in a hot air balloon

'I couldn't have asked for anything better. I love you @caradelevingne. Thank you for making my birthday the best yet.'

Cara, 27, and Ashley were seen having breakfast in a hot air balloon as they floated over the parched countryside.

They also visited traditionally dressed natives and were invited into their tent to share local food where Ashley had her hand decorated by a woman.

And the pair donned helmets to ride a classic motorbike and sidecar plus a dune buggy.

Taking to the air: Ashley shared this dreamy shot of other balloons floating along

Desert trip: Cara, 25, and Ashley shared a snap of themselves in a desert wilderness

Cute kiss: Ashley puckered up to Cara who was still wearing her helmet

Cara also posted a gushing tribute to her girlfriend with a set of snaps from their trip, captioned: 'Happy birthday @ashleybenson

'There is so much I could say but something I love and cherish most about us is that I don't need to because YOU KNOW and that's all that matters.

'It's you and me which is my favourite. My safe place. You let me be silly, you let me be wild, you keep me free, secure and curious.

Native meet up: The couple also went out into the desert to experience nomadic Bedoin life

In-tents experience: Cara, who now sports brown tresses, had her hand decorated by a woman

Sharing the experience: Ashley also enjoyed having her hand painted

'I feel like I've known you my entire life and I am so proud of watching you grow into the woman that you always dreamt of being.

'I love you beyond words my sprinkles, choonchi, angel face, grumpy a**, sweet cheeks, never boring, buttmunch, Benson.'

The couple were first seen together leaving a Lauryn Hill concert together at the Apollo Theater in New York on May 1, 2018.

Gushing message: This is how much Cara loves Ashley