Advertisement

The death toll across Spain, Portugal and France rose to seven today as storms battered the region with more violent winds.

Storm Fabien tore through the region with gales of 105mph in northwest Spain causing a 32-year-old woman to be killed from falling debris in Madrid as a man, 68, drowned while windsurfing in Huelva.

The South Korean woman died after being struck on the head by debris from a building in central Madrid, according to the Madrid region's interior minister.

A weaker storm, Elsa, hit southern Europe on Wednesday before authorities in France, Portugal and Spain warned of the second threat - Storm Fabien.

Crashing waves hit a jetty on the port of A Guarda, northwestern Spain as Storm Fabien and Storm Elsa sweep through the region

Fallen branches are seen on cars parked on a street in Madrid, Spain as a tree is uprooted from concrete pavement blocks

Flooded fields are pictured in Xinzo de Limia today following heavy rain over northwestern Spain. The two deaths raised the number of fatalities to seven from the storms that have battered the region over Thursday and Friday

The building had passed an inspection in 2015 'but weather like this, with heavy rain and wind, causes these fateful cases,' Enrique Lopez told reporters.

Emergency services in the southwestern region of Andalusia said a 68-year-old Dutch man who went missing while windsurfing in rough weather on Friday had drowned.

The two deaths raised the number of fatalities to seven from the storms that have battered the region over Thursday and Friday.

Guaten creek in Yeles, Toledo, is overflown after heavy downpours. Warnings have been issued in various parts of the country due to strong winds and rain as storm

Storm Elsa flooded rivers, brought down power lines and disrupted rail and air travel after it hit southern Europe on Wednesday.

Five of the deaths have been in Spain and two in Portugal, where the extreme weather interrupted train services between the capital Lisbon and the second city Porto after flooding on the rail tracks.

Spain's national weather office has put the entire coast of Galicia and the neighbouring region of Asturias on red alert on Saturday - the highest in its four-scale alert scale - due to strong winds and high waves.

View of the overflowed Guaten creek in Yeles, Toledo, Spain. The death toll in the region has risen to seven after two people died yesterday

Waves batter the coast in Bayona, Galicia, Spain. Storm Fabien has already brought winds of 105mph in Galicia in northwestern Spain

A picturesque rainbow rises over the flooded fields in Xinzo de Limia today as a solitary building stands above the rising water levels

A building is submerged in a flooded field Xinzo de Limia. Eight Madrid city parks remained shut on Saturday because of the strong winds

View of the Guadalquivir river flood waters at San Rafael bridge in Cordoba, southern Spain, as gales tear through the region causing high water levels

A woman walks her dog by the sea during the stormy weather in Ponta do Sal in Portugal. A weaker storm, Elsa, hit southern Europe on Wednesday before authorities in France, Portugal and Spain warned of the second threat - Storm Fabien

Some brave surfers battled the storms in Fabien in Porto do Son, La Coruna, Galicia, Spain, as warnings were issued in parts of the country

A man takes pictures near a sign warning against overwash occurrences during the stormy weather in Ponta do Sal, Portugal

Eight Madrid city parks remained shut on Saturday because of the strong winds.

Parks and cemeteries were also closed in Bordeaux in southwestern France on Saturday while the Arlette Gruss circus, which had set up in a big tent in the city's main square, cancelled three performances.

France's weather office placed 14 regions in the southwest of the country on orange alert Saturday expecting winds of up to 87mph on the coast.

Officials on the French Mediterranean island of Corsica said all the island's airports would be closed Sunday because of the approaching storm. Ferry services to the mainland have already been suspended.