Advertisement

President Donald Trump has begun his Christmas vacation by hitting the links at his golf course in Florida.

On Friday morning, Trump's motorcade departed Mar-a-Lago just after 10am, and headed to Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach.

On the way to the golf course, the motorcade passed a small number of supporters with flags and a Trump 2020 sign.

There was also a billboard on the way to the golf course that said 'President Trump, we'll give $1 million to our veterans if you go vegan for January.'

Trump flashes a double thumbs-up to supporters as he returns to Mar-a-Lago from the golf course on Saturday

The president could be seen wearing a white polo shirt and red hat with his campaign slogan, Keep America Great

President Trump's motorcade heads from Mar-a-Lago to Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach

Trump remained at the private golf course until around 1.45pm. The White House did not immediately offer details on who he may have played golf with.

On the way back to Mar-a-Lago, Trump was spotted by DailyMail.com as he flashed a double thumbs up to a small group of supporters by the roadside.

After a week of high impeachment drama and furious tweeting from Trump, the president fell silent on Twitter while enjoying the mild 75 degree weather at the golf course.

In contrast to Friday, when he sent more than 45 tweets, Trump did not tweet on Saturday until after 2.30pm, when he boasted of a set of spending bills he signed on the way out of DC on Friday night.

A motorcade carrying President Donald Trump arrives at Trump International Golf Club in West Palm Beach

On the way home, Trump passed supporters such as this woman calling for his re-election despite impeachment

'Last night I was so proud to have signed the largest Defense Bill ever. The very vital Space Force was created. New planes, ships, missiles, rockets and equipment of every kind, and all made right here in the USA. Additionally, we got Border Wall (being built) funding. Nice!' Trump tweeted.

The two bills signed on Friday will allocate $1.4 trillion: $738 billion to the military and $632 billion to non-defense agencies, marking increases over fiscal 2019 of $22 billion for the Pentagon and $27 billion for non-defense.

The spending measures, which will add roughly $400 billion to the deficit over 10 years, include money for the president's U.S.-Mexico border fence, pay raises for military and civilian federal workers, and federal funding for election security grants.

Included in the package is a provision that raises the federal minimum age to purchase tobacco to 21, up from the current age of 18. The new minimum age also applies to e-cigarettes and vaping cartridges.

President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump arrive at Palm Beach International Airport on Friday night

Trump poses with Jerry Falwell Jr, Falwell's wife Becki (left) and Kimberly Guilfoyle at Mar-a-Lago on Friday night

Trump is seen with Falwell, other members of Falwell's family, and members of the Liberty University community on Friday

Saturday evening Trump is scheduled to speak to Turning Point USA Student Action Summit at the Palm Beach County Convention Center in West Palm Beach.

On Friday night, Jerry Falwell Jr, so of the famed late pastor and president of the evangelical Liberty University, was spotted at Mar-a-Lago mingling with Trump.

Falwell Jr was also scheduled to speak at the TPUSA event, before heading to Orlando for Liberty's first appearance in a bowl game.

The Liberty Flames were facing the Georgia Southern Eagles in the Cure Bowl, with kickoff scheduled for 2.30pm.