Algeria's powerful army chief has died unexpectedly of a heart attack aged 79, just days after ushering in a new president on an anti-corruption ticket and amid ongoing street protests - throwing the country into political turmoil.

General Ahmed Gaid Salah was instrumental in pushing out the long-serving president Abdelaziz Bouteflika amid pro-democracy protests earlier this year.

Algerian military chief Gaid Salah, left, looked in fine health just four days ago on in this photo taken Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. He is captured embracing president Abdelmajid Tebboune during an inauguration ceremony in the presidential palace, in Algiers. State media reported he died in the morning on Monday December 23.

The military chief then championed an unprecedented push against corruption - including by people in Bouteflika's inner circle - and pushed for new presidential elections.

The winner, Abdelmadjid Tebboune, was widely seen as close to the military chief, and the two were seen warmly embracing at Tebboune's inauguration just four days ago.

However despite his promise to root out corruption, many protesters who took to the streets in the Revolution of Smiles or Hirak Movement before the regime change are still demonstrating - insisting on a complete overhaul of the political system in Algeria.

Gaid Salah had suffered heart problems in the past, according to Algerian media reports, but his death came a shock to most Algerians.

Tebboune declared an exceptional full week of mourning, an indication of the military chief's importance.

Gaid Salah, seen above at Thursday's event, was seen as the main power player in Algeria since he and a pro-democracy movement pushed out the country's longtime president

The news has thrust Algeria into new political uncertainty as a tumultuous year comes to a close. Algeria's military plays a central role in decision-making in this country, a key ally to Western powers in fighting Islamic extremism.

Gaid Salah is being replaced on a temporary basis by another high-ranking general, Said Chengriha, according to state radio.

Gaid Salah also served as vice-minister of defense in the government, and gave the pro-democracy movement the final, determining assist that led to Bouteflika's resignation .

However protesters later turned against Gaid Salah, demanding instead a wholesale makeover of Algeria's political structure.

As the strongman in a power vacuum with an interim government considered illegitimate by protesters, he then ceaselessly pressed for presidential elections in frequent trips to army barracks around Africa's biggest country.

He also was behind a massive corruption drive that included the arrest and conviction of Bouteflika's brother Said, who was blamed for creating a rich and powerful circle of oligarchs. Once-feared intelligence chiefs also were convicted.

Gaid Salah argued that his goal was to preserve "the revolution" from foreign hands he didn't name but that he said were manipulating protesters.