Victoria Beckham has revealed that son Cruz, 14, and daughter Harper, 8, have been baptised, after she took to Instagram on Saturday to share snaps from the star-studded church ceremony.

The designer, 45, shared a sweet family snap of her children alongside their 'wonderful' godparents Eva Longoria, Marc Anthony, hairdresser Ken Paves and sports agent David Gardner.

It had been reported that Victoria and husband David, 44, were planning to celebrate the baptism with a lavish party at their Cotswolds manor, with a guest list was set to include stars such as Elton John and Liv Tyler.

Lovely: Victoria Beckham has revealed that son Cruz, 14, and daughter Harper, 8, have been baptised, as she took to Instagram to share a group snap from the celebration (back, left to right Victoria and David's sons Romeo, 17, and Brooklyn, 20, David, Cruz, Marc Anthony, David Gardner, front left to right Ken Paves, Harper, Eva Longoria and Victoria)

Victoria shared her pride for Harper and Cruz following their baptism in front of friends and family, as she also praised their Godparents for being present during the church service.

She wrote: 'I couldn’t be more proud of my children and thankful to my family, and the most wonderful Godparents. We love you @evalongoria @kenpaves @marcanthony @davidgardner x kisses.'

In the group snap, Harper wore a pretty gold dress as she posed alongside her family in the church following the Catholic service.

The schoolgirl was stood between her godparents Eva, and Ken, as well as her delighted mum, who cut a chic figure in an all-white ensemble.

Lovely: Victoria also shared a snap of Harper and Cruz proudly stood at the altar of the church as they prepared to be baptised, ahead of a star-studded celebration at their Cotswolds manor

Grand occasion: In the group snap, Harper wore a pretty gold dress as she posed alongside her family in the church following the service

Behind them were Victoria and David's sons Romeo, 17, and Brooklyn, 20, as well as their proud dad, Cruz himself singer Marc and sports agent David.

Victoria also shared a second snap of Harper and Cruz stood at the altar ahead of being baptised, with the caption reading: 'Proudest of days today watching Harper and Cruz being baptized in front of our friends and family.

'So much to be grateful for x With love, VB x I love u @davidbeckham.' [sic]

It had been reported that director Guy Ritchie would be a godfather to Cruz, as well as Victoria's sister Louise but neither were present in any of the snaps.

Touching down: Eva was pictured arriving at the Beckham's London family home on Friday, ahead of said celebrations in the Cotswolds

Suave: David and Victoria's oldest son Brooklyn, 20, also took to Instagram Stories to share several artistic snaps of his suit at the ceremony

All of Harper and Cruz's godparents are longtime friends of David and Victoria, with Eva first meeting the couple during their time living in Los Angeles, when the former footballer played for LA Galaxy from 2007 to 2012.

Hairdresser Ken has been friends with Victoria since around 2006, and she's jokingly referred to him in the past as her 'substitute husband.'

David and Victoria have also been friends with Marc since their time living in LA, and were also pals with his then-wife Jennifer Lopez, until the couple split in 2012.

Best pals: All of Harper and Cruz's godparents are longtime friends of David and Victoria, with Eva first meeting the couple during their time living in Los Angeles (pictured in 2013)

Friendly: Hairdresser Ken has been friends with Victoria since around 2006, and she's jokingly referred to him in the past as her 'substitute husband' (pictured in 2014)

Beckham has also been best friends with sports agent David for decades, as the pair first crossed paths during their days playing for the Manchester United youth team in the early 1990s.

Gardner was dropped by United at the age of 19, and set himself up as a football agent with Jason Ferguson, son of legendary Manchester United manager Sir Alex.

Beckham was also a groomsmen to Gardner's wedding to Davinia Taylor in 2003. He has been dating actress Liv Tyler - who also thought to attending the christening - since 2014.

Friendly: David and Victoria have also been friends with Marc since their time living in LA, and were also pals with his then-wife Jennifer Lopez, until the couple split in 2011 (pictured 2012)

Close: David Beckham has also been close to David Gardner for decades, and was also groomsman at his wedding to Davinia Taylor (pictured in 2003)

Just hours before Victoria announced that Harper had been baptised, proud dad David took to Instagram to share a 'ridiculously cute' video of his daughter Harper wishing everyone a Merry Christmas in American Sign Language.

The football legend took to Instagram to post the short clip of Harper as she said: 'Merry Christmas everyone' before spelling out each letter of her name while signing.

Clearly overwhelmed by his daughter's video, David could be heard gushing at the end 'so good' while a beaming Harper took a bow.

He captioned the clip with: 'I mean come on this is ridiculously cute & Harper wanted to wish everyone a very Merry Christmas [Christmas tree and heart emojis] #ASL.'

Sweet: Just hours earlier, proud dad David took to Instagram to share a 'ridiculously cute' video of his daughter Harper wishing everyone a Merry Christmas in American Sign Language

It comes after it was reported that Victoria was clashing with husband David's father over her plans to christen Harper and Cruz.

The couple were said to have spent thousands on the glamorous event, but David's father Ted, 71, was said to be annoyed his partner's daughter Charlotte, 27, had been snubbed from the exclusive guestlist.

The Sun reported Ted, who is divorced from David's mother Sandra, had been invited to the event with his new partner, millionaire and solicitor Hilary Meredith, 60, but her daughter Charlotte didn't make the list.

Drama: It comes after it was reported that Victoria was clashing with David's father over her plans to christen Harper and Cruz

A source told the publication while Charlotte wanted to go as a 'family unit', Victoria's 'mistrust of outsiders' led to her being blocked from attending.

The source said: 'Charlotte believes they are a family and should be invited as a unit, in the end Ted asked David if they could bring her.

'He said he’d speak to Victoria, but he came back and said sorry they couldn’t fit one more in.

Irked: David's father Ted, 71, was said to be annoyed his partner's daughter Charlotte, 27, has been snubbed from the exclusive guestlist because they 'couldn't fit one more in'

'The bottom line is Victoria’s mistrust of any outsiders being brought into the fold.'

The source added all staff working at the event have had to sign non-disclosure agreements.

MailOnline has contacted Victoria's spokeswoman for comment.

Sources said earlier this month that the event would be an A-list affair with Victoria and David picking Cruz's godfather as director Guy Ritchie, while actress Eva would be a godmother to Harper, along with Victoria's sister Louise.

Snubbed: Charlotte (pictured) reportedly wanted to go as a 'family unit' but Victoria's 'mistrust of outsiders' led to her being blocked from attending

The celebrations were said to be happening at the Beckhams' Cotswolds manor house, with guests Liv Tyler, Sir Elton John and David Furnish also invited.

Elton is already godfather to Brooklyn and Romeo.

A source previously told The Sun: 'They have asked party-goers to dress in full-length and fabulous. They really enjoy family events like this and are very proud parents.

'They think Christmas is the perfect time for a christening party. Drinks will be flowing, chefs will serve amazing food and there will be spectacular fireworks.'

In love: David's father Ted, 70, met Hilary (pictured) at ex-services care home Broughton House in Manchester back in April

Family: Ted and his former partner Sandra (L) married in autumn 1969 and share three children; Lynne, 47, David, 44, and Joanne, 37, (second left) (pictured together in 2017)

David's father Ted met Hilary at ex-services care home Broughton House in Manchester back in April.

Ted and his former partner Sandra married in autumn 1969 and share three children; Lynne, 47, David, 44, and Joanne, 37.

Following over three decades of marriage, the pair split in 2002, during the last months of footballer David's Manchester United career.

In an interview with The Mirror back in 2005, Ted admitted his children had been affected by his split from Sandra.

He shared at the time: 'David has spoken about how hard our splitting up was for him - it was tough for all our children.

'I know they were all pretty much grown up by the time we got divorced but it was still a heck of a shock for them.

'We'd been married for 33 years and had simply drifted apart. Just about the only thing we had in common was football.'