As the crowd gathered around Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, Jurgen Klopp and Jordan Henderson stood a few yards away and looked on with increasing concern.

Andy Massey, Liverpool's doctor, was moving his hands around Oxlade-Chamberlain's right-ankle and checking pressure points but the midfielder was in huge discomfort. First, he put his hands across his face then he would whack the turf repeatedly in despair.

Henderson, in between slugs of an energy drink, had worry written all over his face. Klopp, his emotional manager, was even easier to read. When a stretcher was brought on, the German lifted his baseball cap and muttered: 'oh f***ing hell.'

Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain limped off during Liverpool's Club World Cup win over Flamengo

The midfielder collected his medal on crutches, with his right foot in a protective boot

Oxlade-Chamberlain did not need to be carried from the pitch after being caught by Flamengo captain Everton Ribiero, instead walking gingerly back to the dressing room, but the implications were clear.

This player, unfortunately, has had enough major injuries to span two careers and having returned in April from horrific knee ligament damage that had cost him 12 months, the last thing anyone at Anfield – least of all him – wants to consider is another prolonged spell on the sidelines.

Concern for the individual is paramount with Klopp, who forms tight bonds with his squad, but there will be other spin-offs from this 75th minute episode once the test results return to determine what damage Oxlade-Chamberlain has suffered.

The English midfielder was struck by a crunching tackle which forced him out of the game

At this point, you would say his chances of appearing in either of the Christmas fixtures – at Leicester on Boxing Day and against Wolves in seven days – are slim to none, given he was on the podium for the celebration with a protective boot on his ankle propped up by crutches

What we can say with certainty, however, is fitness issues are putting obstacles in the way of Klopp's World Champions. Oxlade-Chamberlain and Naby Keita started this tense contest in the desert because Gini Wijnaldum (hamstring damage) and Fabinho (ankle ligaments) were unavailable.

Throw into the equation that Dejan Lovren (groin) and Joel Matip (knee) are also out until the New Year and you begin to understand why Klopp is so anxious about losing anymore key personnel at a point when everything is on the line.

The Ox's injury adds to a long list of absentees for Liverpool, particularly from midfield

Liverpool have a healthy advantage at the top of the table but they will need every single point if they are going to achieve their major ambition of becoming champions of England. They braced not so much for a title chase but a war of attrition.

What Klopp needs is those who have been on the periphery through the first half of the season to step forward and make telling contributions. He would certainly have wished for Keita, the £52.75million midfielder, could have settled this clash to prevent extra time.

With more composure, the theme here could have been so very different. Liverpool flew out of the blocks and the intensity of their pressing – as runners in red swarmed forward from midfield – seemed to take Flamengo by surprise.

On the touchline, Jorge Jesus was like a human Catherine Wheel, all sparks and twisting arms, with Flamengo unable to get out of their penalty area and in the fifth minute, Keita should really have rammed home the advantage.

Jurgen Klopp will now need players on the fringes to step up and fill the midfield void

He had looked good against Monterrey, driving into dangerous areas from deep, so when the chance arrived at his feet, you expected a similar outcome – an unerring finish and Liverpool taking the lead. As it was, Keita got his lines wrong and his shot sailed high over the bar.

Confidence in football should never be underestimated. When Keita opened the scoring the semi-final, he had an extra yard and had the courage to try the little one and two touch passes that are designed to open spaces.

In fairness, Keita played with discipline as Flamengo came back into the battle and a measure of Klopp's gratitude was evident when he eventually substituted him in extra-time. Klopp was smiling broadly at that point, as Roberto Firmino had just scored the decisive goal.

He was overjoyed as Saturday turned into Sunday, thrilled by the result and a notable first for this club. How long the smile lasts, though, depends on the Oxlade-Chamberlain bulletin.