Advertisement

The title they really want, of course, is the one they used to claim as a matter of routine and have reasons to believe might soon be Anfield’s once again after 30 long years. But ‘champions of the world’ will more than do just for now. It is an outcome you have to feel will fuel their drive for domestic supremacy.

A winning mentality indeed. Liverpool become the first club to hold the Champions League, Super Cup and the Club World Cup. Yet it was a fight beyond anything the Premier League has thrown at them this season: a difficult, frustrating, attritional night against a steely Flamengo side operating to the relentless drumbeat of their rumbustious supporters.

Despite Jurgen Klopp’s side dominating and playing the better football, the game was in its 86th minute before they managed a shot on goal. They were profligate at times. And then, after 99 minutes, the breakthrough.

Roberto Firmino celebrates after scoring Liverpool's winning goal against Flamengo in the Club World Cup final

The Brazilian striker finally broke the deadlock in the first half of extra-time after being played in by team-mate Sadio Mane

The Brazilian produced a calm finish to give the Reds the lead and finally put an end to the resistance of the Brazilian side

Firmino wheels away in celebration after scoring the only goal of the game at Khalifa International Stadium in Doha, Qatar

The goalscorer is congratulated by his team-mates after putting them in touching distance of becoming world champions

Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp shows his approval to Firmino after watching him give his side the lead against Flamengo

MATCH FACTS Liverpool (4-3-3): Alisson 7; Alexander-Arnold 6.5, Gomez 6.5, Van Dijk 7.5, Robertson 6; Oxlade-Chamberlain 6.5 (Lallana 76 6), Henderson 8, Keita 5.5 (Miner 100, 6); Salah 6.5, Firmino 7 (Origi 105 5.5), Mane 6. Subs not used: Lonergan, Adrian, van den Berg, Hoever, Williams, Wijnaldum, Jones, Elliott Booked: Mane, Salah, Firmino, Milner Goals: Firmino 100 Flamengo (4-2-3-1): Diego Alves 7; Rafinha 5.5, Caio 7, Mari 7.5, Luis 5.5; Arao 6.5 , Arrascaeta 6 (Vitino 77 6), Gerson 6 (Correa dos Santos 102 5.5) ; Everton 6.5 (Diego 82), Henrique 7; Barbosa 6.5 Subs not used: Cesar, Gabriel Batista, Rhodolfo, Rodinei, Rene, Thuler, Piris Da Motta, Reinier Booked: Vitinho, Diego Goals: None Referee: A Al Jassim (Qatar) 7 Attendance: 45,416

Liverpool’s first ever goal in a final of this competition – after 369 minutes of waiting – and though Roberto Firmino will take the acclaim on Sunday, it should be said that its architect, Jordan Henderson, had been delivering through the eye of a needle all night.

It was a stellar performance from the captain, delivering with vision, passing and spatial awareness a win which reveals how quickly football fortunes can change. Just ten years ago next year, Fenway Sports Group bought the club, then brought to its knees and near financial ruin by George Gillett and Tom Hicks.

Liverpool have learned in the intervening decade that a slip on the turf can bring pain. But they were the beneficiaries this time as Brazilian full-back Pablo Mari’s lost footing allowed Henderson’s ball to travel forward through open space to Sadio Mane, who turned and rolled back a ball for Firmino. He showed the composure to cut inside, bamboozle the centre back Rodrigo Caio and score.

The last time the two sides played for this title, Flamengo were the creative ones. Zico has always remembered the 1981 3-0 win over Bob Paisley’s side – the only previous time either club had previously contested the final - being the only outcome the Brazilian team could ever foresee on a December day in Tokyo. ‘We knew we would win. Failing did not come into our heads,’ he said a few years back.

But Liverpool were the dominant playmakers this time, led by a manager whose imagination for what this trophy might represent has transmitted such a powerful image of the team this past week, to a world audience more captivated by this trophy than Britain.

Firmino (left) misses a chance to give Liverpool the lead inside the first minute of Saturday's game, blazing over the bar

Firmino shows his frustration after almost breaking the deadlock with Liverpool's first attack of the game in the tense final

Firmino shoots towards goal but the Brazilian's powerful left-footed effort struck the inside of the post in the second half

The Reds' striker reacts after missing another chance to open the scoring in Saturday's Club World Cup final

‘In moments like this, I struggle to find words when not in my native language,’ Klopp said on Saturday night. ‘The players’ desire to win the next game and win the next challenge.’ Could the Premier League title be next? he was asked. ‘I have no idea. I can’t tell you,’ Klopp said.

The course of the night would have been smoother had two chances not been spurned in the first five minutes. Both chances exposed Flamengo’s vulnerability to Liverpool’s vastly superior pace, with Joe Gomez and Virgil van Dijk causing problems by operating high up the field. But after Firmino took down Trent Alexander-Arnold’s 30-yard pass from deep on his chest, he despatched a half volley over the bar.

Henderson’s own imperious long ball over the top to Salah seemed to have immediately unlocked another chance when the Egyptian shrugged off defenders and laid back into space. Naby Keita, struggling to make an impression all night, fired over.

Brazilian forward Gabriel Barbosa of Flamengo has a shot on goal during a tight first half on Saturday evening

Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain goes down awkwardly following a heavy challenge from Everton Ribeiro in the second half

Oxlade-Chamberlain withers in pain after being injured by a cynical foul as he and Liverpool attempted to break

The Brazilians did find greater possession as the first half wore on, yet Rafinha, the right back, looked overwhelmed. There was occasional opportunism from Flamengo – they twice exploited Alisson’s attempts to clear to fashion chances for the lively forward Bruno Henrique - but no material danger.

It didn’t help Liverpool’s attempt to put this game away that Mane, dubiously booked in the closing stages of the first half, struggled for so long to make an impression. When another chance presented itself to Firmino at the start of the second half his pinball shot hit the post and flew across the face of goal.

Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain’s departure on 75 minutes, clutching his right leg caught by Everton Ribeiro as they went up for a ball, caused further consternation. He re-emerged on crutches as the team celebrated their win. Klopp’s diagnosis was not optimistic on Saturday night.

The necessary composure and capacity to summon energy to win late is routine to this team now. The game had four minutes of normal time to run when Henderson latched onto Salah’s lay-back and unravelled a right foot shot from 20 yards which Diego Alves touched over.

The English midfielder looks dejected as he makes his way off the pitch to be replaced after picking up an injury

Sadio Mane is challenged by Brazilian full-back Rafinha after being played through on goal in injury time in Qatar

Flamengo's players confront Abdulrahman Al Jassim after he awarded a penalty to Liverpool for a foul inside the box

Replays showed that former Bayern Munich defender Rafinha's challenge on Mane was legal and the decision was reversed

The big screen displays the VAR's ruling that the decision to award a Jurgen Klopp's side a penalty had been overturned

VAR correctly ruled that Rafinha had legally challenged Mane on the white line of the area, when sent through by Henderson, and that no penalty should ensue. The 32-year-old Qatari referee went pitch-side to view the VAR screen. A rare example of the technology working well in practice.

Liverpool required four minutes of extra time to make the breakthrough. Salah then curled a shot from the edge of the box which came close to wrapping up the night though it was a measure of the task that substitute Lincoln shot over when he could have equalised at the death.

‘I think it’s time for me and you to take over the world,’ stated one of the Liverpool banners on Saturday night, a line from The Courteeners. Now for the Premier League.