WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. (AP) - Wake Forest will enter its two-week holiday break more relieved than merry.

Chaundee Brown scored 25 points Saturday afternoon including a key baseline jumper down the stretch as Wake Forest needed a 10-0 game-ending run to pull away late for a 76-64 victory over underdog North Carolina A&T.

Brown´s shot from the left side with 2:22 left answered a 3-pointer from A&T freshman Fred Cleveland and gave the Demon Deacons (7-5) a 68-64 lead. The Aggies (3-9) have never beaten an ACC opponent.

Wake Forest didn't own a double-digit lead until the final seconds.

"We should have beaten this team by 20 points," said Brown, a 6-foot-5 junior. "We didn´t come out with the juice we usually have. The last three or four minutes were key - we strapped it up and hit a few big shots."

"It´s better than having a loss," agreed Wake Forest coach Danny Manning. "We want to get better over the break."

Cleveland, who scored 15 points off the bench, had tied the game at 61-61 on a jumper with 6:22 remaining.

The Aggies missed a pair of 3-pointers with a chance in the final four minutes. The Aggies took their last lead at 49-48 on Tyrone Lyons´ put back with 11:53 to play.

Brown was dominant inside for the Deacons. He made 6 of 8 from the foul line and grabbed 10 rebounds. Olivier Sarr, who returned after missing the Deacons´ upset victory the previous weekend over Xavier, added 13 points and 10 rebounds off the bench.

Ronald Jackson scored 16 points for the Aggies, who made 8 of 17 from 3-point distance.

The Aggies came out strong, scoring the game´s first five points and getting eight quick points from Jackson. They took their last lead of the first half at 25-24 on Cleveland´s 3-pointer with 7:48 left.

Brown scored 11 in the first half as the Deacons opened up a 41-34 lead at intermission.

BIG PICTURE

N.C. A&T: The Aggies dropped their fourth straight and fell to 0-43 against ACC opponents. They showed they could be competitive with an ACC team and have to be disappointed to squander such a good chance to break their ACC drought.

Wake Forest: The Deacons can enter a long holiday break - they don´t play again for two weeks - on a positive note. Sarr, the Deacons´ key 7-foot reserve, was back in the lineup after sitting out in concussion protocol, and played well in the second half, finishing with 13 points (7-of-9 at the foul line) and 10 rebounds.

KEY STATS

N.C. A&T: The Aggies shot only 8 of 18 from the foul line and committed 20 turnovers, several on errant passes that didn´t get over taller Wake Forest defenders.

Wake Forest: The Deacons made only 5 of 24 3-point shots, including an 0-7 night from guard Brandon Childress.

CHANCES THAT GOT AWAY:

N.C. A&T had two possession in the final four minutes with an opportunity to tie or take the lead and turn up the pressure on Wake Forest. But Cleveland missed a jumper and Devin Haygood missed a 3-point shot.

UP NEXT:

N.C. A&T: The Aggies play at Illinois on Dec. 29.

Wake Forest: The Deacons return to ACC play at Pitt on Jan. 4.

____

More AP college basketball: https://apnews.com/Collegebasketball and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25