Caroline Flack's boyfriend Lewis Burton hinted that the star was 'taking a back seat,' as he shared a cryptic post following the news that Laura Whitmore had been appointed as the new Love Island host.

The tennis player, 27, took to Instagram Stories to share a throwback post on Saturday of the star sitting in the very back row of a plane.

It comes after it was confirmed by ITV that Laura, 34, would be replacing Caroline as host of Love Island's winter series, after the presenter, 40, stepped down following her arrest for assault last week.

Hinting: Caroline Flack's boyfriend Lewis Burton hinted that the star was 'taking a back seat,' as he shared a cryptic post after Laura Whitmore was appointed as Love Island host

In the black and white video, Lewis could be heard saying that Caroline was sitting in seat 31C an airplane, and joked she was 'hanging off the wing.'

The hunk could have been alluding to his girlfriend's decision to step back from hosting Love Island in the wake of her arrest.

Caroline has openly shared her support for pal Laura who will take over Love Island host on Sunday 12th January.

New face: Irish presenter Laura (pictured in 2016) will present the new series of Love Island in January, after Caroline stepped down following her arrest for assault

Cheeky: In the throwback post, Lewis poked fun at Caroline for sitting in the very back row of a plane, but it could have alluded to her recent Love Island departure

Out and about: Lewis cut a downcast figure as he stepped out for a tense phone call in a leafy London suburb, following Laura's hiring by ITV bosses

Lewis cut a downcast figure as he stepped out for a tense phone call in a leafy London suburb, following Laura's hiring by ITV bosses.

It comes after Caroline also shared her support for pal Laura after she was confirmed as the replacement host for Winter Love Island on Friday.

Taking to Instagram Stories, the presenter voiced her support for the Irish star, while admitting she's still going through 'a really rough time' after stepping down as Love Island host following her arrest for assault last week.

Laura's appointment came amid mass-speculation from fans, with MailOnline exclusively revealing on Wednesday that she was being lined up to be presenter.

'Glad it's her:' It comes after Caroline shared her support for pal Laura after she was confirmed as the replacement host for Winter Love Island on Friday (pictured together in 2015)

Hinting that she was struggling with the aftermath of her departure, Caroline wrote: 'I'm glad it's Laura... She loves the show as much as I do... again...

'Thank you for your continuous messages of support... it's a really rough time... but I'm doing all I can to keep my head above water and sort this all out...'

Caroline's post also comes after a source exclusively told MailOnline she's turned down aftercare from Love Island bosses, despite reports they had offered to pay for 'therapy' for the star.

A source told MailOnline: 'She has had one meeting with ITV execs and they said they are there for her if she needs them, but she assured them she is fine.'

Candid: Taking to Instagram Stories, the presenter, 40, voiced her support for the Irish star,

On Friday, ITV finally confirmed the news that Laura would be replacing Caroline as Love Island's newest host for the winter series.

Following Caroline's arrest and charge for assault after a fight with her boyfriend Lewis, 27, it had been widely-speculated who would replace Caroline, with fans sharing their picks on social media

Taking to both social media and in an official statement, Laura confirmed the news which MailOnline revealed exclusively on Wednesday.

It's her! On Friday ITV finally confirmed the news that Laura would be replacing Caroline as Love Island newest host for the winter series

Referencing both her friendship with Caroline and the host's efforts to get her the job, Laura said: 'To say I'm excited to be heading to Cape Town to host Love Island, the biggest show on television, is an understatement...

'I want to thank ITV for trusting me at the helm of this huge show. I wish it was in better circumstances; Caroline is a brilliant host and also a friend.

'We've spoken a lot in the last few days since she stepped down. She has been very kind to me and strongly pushed me for this role. I've watched her host every series and know I have big boots to fill. I will try and do it justice...

'Above all, I am a massive fan of this show. I've never been to a Love Island villa, and I can't wait to get in there to meet all the new Islanders looking for love.'

Happy days! Taking to both social media and in an official statement, the Irish star confirmed the news which MailOnline revealed exclusively on Wednesday

Excited: As she shared a snap of the famous Love Island bottle, Laura also took to Instagram to write about her excitement to take over the role

The Love Island team are the best in the business… including the voice and heart of the show, Iain. He thought he was getting a holiday away from me… not a chance!'

Head of Digital Channels and Acquisitions, Paul Mortimer, said: 'I'm delighted that Laura is able to step in this winter on ITV2's biggest show.

'She is the best person for the job and is a popular and experienced presenter of live television. Whilst Caroline is away, we know that Love Island will be in very safe hands.'

Soon after the announcement Laura's boyfriend and Love Island voiceover Iain Stirling voiced his support, as she shared a selfie and jokingly wrote: 'The new #loveisland host seems nice... I wonder if she's single.'

Caroline has been rocked by scandal since last week when she was arrested and charged with assault after the argument with Lewis.

She has only been pictured out once in the week since she was arrested, seen just outside the Soho hotel in London with her PR Nathan Charles.

The channel has cut her from the Love Island promo ads which she filmed ahead of the show's confirmed start date on January 12.

Sweet: Laura paid tribute to Caroline in her post following the news that she will take over as Love Island host

Standing down from the series on Tuesday, Caroline broke her silence on Instagram and wrote: 'There have been a significant number of media reports and allegations in regard to my personal life.

'While matters were not as have been reported I am committed to co-operating with the appropriate authorities and I can't comment further on these matters until the legal process is over.

'However Love Island has been my world for the last five years, it's the best show on telly. In order not to detract attention from the upcoming series I feel the best thing I can do is stand down from Series 6.'