A pet owner has been jailed for kicking his newly-owned dog to death after it urinated on the floor.

Matthew Benjamin, 37, of Shirenewton, South Wales, had only owned Staffordshire bull terrier Diesel for just five weeks when he killed her.

Benjamin was heard to say: 'This thing is going to die' and 'kicked the dog over 100 times', Newport Magistrates Court heard.

His housemate heard Benjamin shouting at the dog to stop urinating on the floor.

Matthew Benjamin, 37, of Shirenewton, South Wales, has been jailed for kicking his newly-owned dog to death after it urinated on the floor

In a statement, the witness said: 'Then I heard Diesel scream and yelp. The dog seemed to be in extreme distress and pain.

'I could hear the dog being beaten repeatedly.'

Newport Magistrates Court heard the housemate confronted Mr Ricketts, who had been drinking, in the kitchen.

He said: 'Matthew said, 'This thing is going to die.' I think he must have kicked the dog over 100 times.

'He was a lovely dog who was brutally killed for no reason.'

Benjamin was heard to say: 'This thing is going to die' and 'kicked the dog over 100 times', Newport Magistrates Court heard. His housemate heard Benjamin shouting at the dog to stop urinating on the floor

Benjamin had only owned Staffordshire bull terrier Diesel for just five weeks when he killed her. He was heard to say: 'This thing is going to die'

Prosecutor Paul Ricketts said the two-year-old pooch died at Benjamin's home in South Wales.

A vet recorded he suffered wounds to his head, shoulders and 'lacerations to the face' and died from blunt trauma to the abdomen and head.

Mr Ricketts said: 'After the defendant was arrested, he told the police he had completely lost his head and that the red mist descended.'

Benjamin pleaded guilty to causing unnecessary suffering to a protected animal before Newport magistrates.

The horrific attack took place in the early hours of December 4.

Andrew Twomlow, defending, said Benjamin pleaded guilty on the basis Diesel was kicked six or seven times - which the court accepted.

In his probation report, Benjamin said he had been stressed and was 'gutted' because the 'the dog didn't deserve to die'.

A vet recorded he suffered wounds to his head, shoulders and 'lacerations to the face' and died from blunt trauma to the abdomen and head

The court heard the case had attracted interest on social media.

Mr Twomlow said: 'The public outrage is understandable. The defendant has had his property and car damaged.

'He has been subject to a degree of vilification.'

Benjamin owned a 'successful business' called Honey Badger Construction and had at one point employed 20 people.

Judge Parson jailed him for 17 weeks and banned him from keeping animals for life.

He said: 'This was a cowardly and vicious attack on a harmless animal and you showed no empathy for its suffering.'

Benjamin must also pay a £122 surcharge. A group of nine animal lovers sat in court to watch him being sentenced.

Speaking after the case, Christina Thomas, 27, from Magor, said: 'I think he's scum. A monster and absolute evil.'