It was here at the Etihad in February 2016 that one of the most momentous matches of the decade took place. Leicester came here that day, played Manchester City off the park and won 3-1.

It was the day when the fog of illusion surrounding Leicester’s title challenge cleared and the sharp focus of their intent came into view. It was the moment their miracle became a possibility.

So memories of that day were inevitable. But good though Leicester were, superb though they have been all season, what stirred the nostalgia was the sight of Riyad Mahrez again dancing at will through defenders.

Riyad Mahrez (R) was unplayable for Manchester City against his former side Leicester

He was unplayable back then in 2016 and it was pretty much the same here. The only difference was his allegiance to Manchester City. When you have Mahrez playing like this and Kevin De Bruyne in the form he is, the contest can seem unfair. The pair of them were unfathomable.

Ben Chilwell and Wilfried Ndidi, their immediate opponents, actually played well. Chilwell stuck to his duties no matter how many times he was tricked and persisted in being brave in his passing despite the scale of the task.

Ndidi was everywhere: clearing up here, playing in Jamie Vardy there. He tracked and closed De Bruyne with tenacity. But when the Belgian is in this zone there is not much that can be done.

Pep Guardiola’s City looked themselves again. For so much of this season they have been having an identity crisis. And there were hints of that here as well. Playing Fernandinho and Nicolas Otamendi against a hungry, lean and in-form Vardy was all too gracious an invitation.

Guardiola’s vulnerability to great counter-attacking sides is well documented and Leicester, though a different model to the title-winning side, are still one of the best when they need to be.

With Kevin De Bruyne in the form he is, the contest is unfair and the Belgian ensured City's win

Ultimately City were too much. De Bruyne was the man who ensured that, even if Gabriel Jesus scored the decisive goal.

Picking up the ball on 70 minutes, he drove at Leicester, cutting inside to run directly at Caglar Soyuncu. He drilled the ball across goal and the Brazilian stretched to connect for 3-1.

Until that moment, despite City’s dominance of possession, this was a game in the balance. That was the measure of Leicester’s achievement. They came here again to have title credentials examined or, perhaps, more realistically, their Champions League potential. And though they did not emerge unscathed, they did depart with honour intact.

Leicester are a fine team. They simply met a better one here.

Despite the three goals conceded, they retain the joint-best defensive record in the Premier League. Amidst all the focus on their creativity, Brendan Rodgers has quietly turned out a balanced team, strong in all departments. This is some way from the coach who was caricatured as gung-ho and naive at Liverpool.

Mahrez was a menace against his former side and levelled the scores with a deflected effort

Good though City were in the opening exchanges, Rodgers’ team found a way to keep them out. So when De Bruyne played Raheem Sterling through on goal on 10 minutes, Jonny Evans got back and nicked the ball off him. When Mahrez cut inside and shot hard on 13 minutes, Soyuncu blocked.

They needed the post to help them on 14 minutes when De Bruyne’s curler rebounded off the woodwork. But when Mahrez swept past Chilwell on 16 minutes, Ndidi was back to force him wide and Kasper Schmeichel saved.

Leicester are now much likelier to dominate possession. But when needs must they can revert to their 2016 alter ego. Here they were required to be in that mode. There was a clue when Youri Tielemens’ quick free on 19 minutes saw Vardy sprint past Otamendi like he were a static training ground dummy, but his cross was just short of Ashley Barnes. On 20 minutes, though, they executed perfectly. Chilwell, keeping his cool under pressure, played out to Barnes, who knew exactly where Vardy was running. He chipped the ball into that area.

Ilkay Gundogan swept home a penalty confidently to score City's third and seal the victory

If possible, running past Fernandinho was easier than taking on Otamendi. Vardy swept past him like he wasn’t there. It looked like he might have over-run it but he had a plan, lifting the ball over Ederson as he approached.

This is now the textbook way to hurt City, but they had a swift if fortuitous response. Mahrez cut inside Chilwell again on 31 minutes and unleashed a shot which deflected off Soyuncu and in. City in this mode are hard to resist but Leicester were doing their level best until 42 minutes, when Sterling tricked Ricardo Pereira into a foul in the box. Ilkay Gundogan swept the penalty confidently to Schmeichel’s left, though the Dane got close.

This was City as good as they have been in this mixed season. Still, Leicester hung on. Barnes went close. And when City came, as you knew they would, there was Schmeichel diving at the feet of De Bruyne on 59 minutes and parrying away from Mahrez on 66 minutes. They wouldn’t hold out.

On this occasion they retreated from the Etihad wounded though not beyond repair. They look like a side to endure the season, while Manchester City just look like Manchester City again.