Sheridan Smith met some football legends on Saturday as she took in Everton's 0-0 draw with Arsenal from VIP seats at Goodison Park.

The actress, 38, who is expecting her first child, joked she didn't know who any of the legends were as she posed with Everton's caretaker manager Duncan Ferguson for an Instagram snap.

Sheridan's fans pointed out that her fiancé Jamie Horn might not be too pleased to see her with the Everton favourite, as he's a Arsenal fan.

Match day: Sheridan Smith met some football legends, including Duncan Ferguson, on Saturday as she took in Everton's 0-0 draw with Arsenal from VIP seats at Goodison Park

'Fab day at the footy yesterday, met lots of football people that my fella says are quite important....@MrAncelotti , @mikelarteta, Pat Rice, and this lovely tall man called Duncan Ferguson,' Sheridan captioned the photo, which saw 6ft 3in player turned manager tower over 5ft 1in Sheridan.

'There's a better team over the park you might have heard of them just ask your fella,' quipped one fan in the comments referring to her beau's support for Everton's rivals.

Sheridan was a guest of her friend, Everton's chairman Bill Kenwright, who directed and produced the recent West End production of Joseph and the Amazing Technicolour Dreamcoat in which Sheridan starred.

Sheridan also met Everton's newly appointed manager Carlo Ancelotti at the match and Arsenal's new manager Mikel Arteta, which she promptly tweeted Piers Morgan about.

Her man: Sheridan's fans pointed out that her fiancé Jamie Horn might not be too pleased to see her with the Everton favourite, as he's a Arsenal fan (pictured together on December 19)

Sheridan confirmed she is expecting her first child in November with a social media post.

Sharing messages from adoring fans, Sheridan posted one message reading: 'You're going to be such an amazing, beautiful mummy to a very lucky little boy', while another penned: 'So happy for you and your beautiful family'.

Sheridan sparked speculation that she was pregnant in October after she lamented her 'morning sickness' on social media, and finally confirmed the news with a snap of a blanket which she captioned: 'Baby Smith-Horn'

She's a fan! Sheridan also met Arsenal's new manager Mikel Arteta, which she promptly tweeted Piers Morgan about

Sheridan also took to Twitter to confirm the news that she was expecting, as she posted about awaiting her 'most important role to date.'

She wrote: 'Super excited for 2020, gonna finally get to work with a producer I admire hugely! But first, my most important role to date..' along with emojis of a pregnant woman and a woman cradling a newborn baby.

Sheridan also took to Instagram to post a snap of a baby blanket that had been personalised with the surname 'Baby Smith-Horn.'

The star was clearly thrilled by the prospect of becoming a mum as she took to social media to share the sweet blanket she had been gifted.