Manchester City cut the gap to second-place Leicester to one point with a fine 3-1 victory over the Foxes at the Etihad Stadium.

Kevin De Bruyne and Riyad Mahrez were both in inspired form and the latter equalised after Jamie Vardy had given Brendan Rodgers' men the lead on the break.

Ilkay Gundogan then completed the comeback after finishing from the spot after Ricardo Pereira brought down Raheem Sterling, before Gabriel Jesus ended his goal drought on home soil by tapping in De Bruyne's cross.

Sportsmail's Jack Gaughan has given his ratings from the match.

Riyad Mahrez (centre) and Kevin De Bruyne were at the centre of the hosts' win on Saturday

MANCHESTER CITY (4-2-3-1)

Ederson - 7

City dominated but their goalkeeper remained alert at crucial moments to preserve this result.

Kyle Walker - 7

A really full-blooded display, the sort of which City’s crowd fed off. Use of the ball was largely sensible.

Fernandinho - 6

Done for pace as Jamie Vardy nipped around him for the first goal. Exposed over the top.

Kevin De Bruyne put on another storming display in midfield for Manchester City on Saturday

Nicolas Otamendi – 7

Bar a couple of slips, did not endure quite the same difficulties as Fernandinho. Positive performance.

Benjamin Mendy – 8

Strongest performance of the season. Mendy was more careful in possession and a constant threat.

Ilkay Gundogan – 7.5

Pivoted City’s midfield excellently and gave them more energy than Rodri might have done.

Bernardo Silva - 8

Tenacious in an unfamiliar central berth. Looked more at home there than out wide.

Gabriel Jesus scored his first goal at home since January as City came from behind to win

Riyad Mahrez – 8.5

Unplayable for much of this. The main outlet on City’s right and led Ben Chilwell a merry dance.

Kevin De Bruyne - 9

Another storming display from a midfielder who thrives on the responsibility of driving his team on.

Raheem Sterling – 7.5

At his most dangerous when drifting into pockets but needed to take aim more often.

Gabriel Jesus – 7.5

Willing running all evening and made sure he gave Leicester a headache. Deserved his goal.

Pep Guardiola's side cut the gap to Brendan Rodgers' men to one point in the Premier League

Subs

Rodri (for Gundogan, 79)

Phil Foden (for Sterling, 89)

Sergio Aguero (for De Bruyne, 90)

Subs not used: Bravo, Zinchenko, Cancelo, Garcia

Manager: Pep Guardiola - 8

LEICESTER CITY (4-1-4-1)

Kasper Schmeichel - 7

Kept Leicester afloat during a first-half that City might have scored far more than twice.

Ricardo Pereira - 5

Conceding the penalty was both uncharacteristically clumsy and needless.

Conceding the penalty was both uncharacteristically clumsy and needless by Ricardo Pereira

Jonny Evans – 7

Stoic defending on a number of occasions and out-paced City’s speedsters when clear.

Caglar Soyuncu – 6.5

Solid alongside Evans. Booked early, meaning the defender had to curb his instincts thereafter.

Ben Chilwell – 5.5

All at sea against the imperious Mahrez but was not afforded enough support.

Wilfried Ndidi - 6

Just had too much on his plate and could not cope. The game moved too quickly in that area.

Ayoze Perez - 5

Was given no encouragement and got no joy out of Mendy. Leicester needed more running.

Jamie Vardy gave Leicester the lead after the hosts had dominated with a fantastic strike

Youri Tielemans - 5

Anonymous in midfield as City became more inventive with the space they took up.

James Maddison – 6.5

Moments of real quality. Leicester barely kept the ball so Maddison’s contributions were only fleeting.

Harvey Barnes - 6

Incisive pass for the opener, played in behind Fernandinho, although struggled defensively.

Jamie Vardy - 7

England’s in-form striker was always a shoo-in to score and he kept both centre halves occupied.

Subs

Marc Albrighton (for Barnes, 64) - 6

Demarai Gray (for Perez, 68) - 6

Dennis Praet (for Tielemans, 77)

Subs not used: Ward, Justin, Morgan, Iheanacho

Manager: Brendan Rodgers - 6

Ref: M Dean – 6