She's starring in the new film adaptation of the beloved Broadway musical, Cats.

And Jennifer Hudson put on another showstopping display as she headed out into New York City ahead of the movie's premiere earlier this week.

The songstress stopped traffic in a fierce pink coat with thigh-high boots.

Looking good! Jennifer Hudson put on another showstopping display as she headed out into New York City ahead of the movie's premiere earlier this week

The American Idol vet didn't let the cold winter temperatures stop her from flashing a smile.

Jennifer looked in high spirits as she headed out in her sexy ensemble.

The Dreamgirls star wore her tresses down in a sleek and straight style, while a dramatic winged slick of eyeliner complimented her complexion.

Jennifer has her hands full with a number of high-profile projects as of late, including the star-studded film adaptation of the Cats musical.

Walk this way! Hudson worked a showstopping pair of thigh-high boots

The actress plays Grizabella, the Glamour Cat known for singing the hit track Memory.

In addition to the musical Cats, Jennifer will be back on the big screen playing another music icon.

Jennifer will be playing the late Aretha Franklin in the upcoming biopic Respect, which chronicles the life of the Queen Of Soul.

The cat's meow: The American Idol vet is currently on the big screen playing Grizabella in Cats

Jennifer has been busy filming the movie lately opposite co-star Marlon Wayans, who plays Aretha's first husband, Ted White.

The movie's first teaser was recently released, and sees Jennifer singing the hit track Respect while wearing a dazzling gold dress.

Jennifer recently talked about how it felt taking on the role, telling Sunday Today's Willie Geist the part gives her 'huge shoes to fill.'

Golden girl! The movie's first teaser was recently released, and sees Jennifer singing the hit track Respect while wearing a dazzling gold dress

'I am just taking it one step at a time, one day at a time. All I want to do is pay tribute to her and meet her requests, you know? Like, "Aretha said do this?" — ‘Yes, ma’am,"' she went on.

The Spanish Harlem songstress, who passed away at age 76 in 2018, hand picked Jennifer for the role.

'We were in talks a long time about me playing her,' she added, 'so I just hope I make her proud [and] do her justice.'