Advertisement

It is too early to say that the title race is back on but anyone tempted to argue that Manchester City's victory over Leicester City at The Etihad strengthened Liverpool's dominant position at the top of the Premier League would be wrong. There is only one team that can catch Liverpool now and it is not Leicester.

The numbers tell us even though Liverpool were away winning the Club World Cup in Qatar, their advantage at the top of the table remains at ten points and they now have a game in hand. Leicester are their closest challengers and this defeat was a setback for them.

All the same, this victory for Pep Guardiola's revitalised side was at least a hint that Liverpool's advance on the title may not yet be a canter. This City victory was a reminder that the champions have not given up. It was a warning that if Liverpool falter, City will be there, ready to pounce.

Gabriel Jesus scored his first goal at home since January as Manchester City came from behind to beat Leicester on Saturday

Riyad Mahrez (centre) and Kevin De Bruyne were at the centre of the hosts' win after they had fallen behind in the game

Jamie Vardy gave Leicester the lead after the hosts had dominated with a fantastic left-foot dink over the onrushing Ederson

The goal saw Vardy get the better of Fernandinho for pace before finishing for his 17th goal of the Premier League season

MATCH FACTS, PLAYER RATINGS AND LEAGUE TABLE Manchester City (4-3-3): Ederson 7; Walker 7, Otamendi 7, Fernandinho 6, Mendy 8; De Bruyne 9 (Aguero 90+1'), Gundogan 7.5 (Rodri 79'), Bernardo Silva 8; Mahrez 8.5, Gabriel Jesus 7.5, Sterling 7.5 (Foden 89') Subs not used: Bravo, Zinchenko, Joao Cancelo, Garcia Goals: Mahrez (30'), Gundogan (43' pen), Jesus (69') Bookings: De Bruyne, Gundogan Manager: Pep Guardiola 8 Leicester (4-1-4-1): Schmeichel 7; Ricardo Pereira 5, Evans 7, Soyuncu 6.5, Chilwell 5.5; Ndidi 6; Perez 5 (Gray 68', 6), Tielemans 5 (Praet 77'), Maddison 6.5, Barnes 6 (Albrighton 64', 6); Vardy 7 Subs not used: Justin, Morgan, Ward, Iheanacho Goals: Vardy (22') Bookings: Soyuncu, Ndidi Manager: Brendan Rodgers 6 Ref: Mike Dean 6 Attendance: 54,415 Player Ratings by Jack Gaughan Season at a glance Live tables

Fixtures

Scores Premier League

Premier League

Championship

League One

League Two

Scottish Premiership

Scottish Div 1

Scottish Div 2

Scottish Div 3

Ligue 1

Serie A

La Liga

Bundesliga





Jurgen Klopp's side may be kings of the world and princes of Europe but they are not yet rulers in their own land.

Brendan Rodgers' Leicester team are a fine side in their own right and their play on the counter-attack here was quite dazzling. Jamie Vardy scored for the ninth game out of ten and embarrassed City's defence with his pace and poise. But still City outclassed their opponents.

Liverpool have set such a fearsome pace at the top that it is hard to see anyone catching them but City are the only ones who have a chance. Those who thought they had already ceded the title were shown here that they were mistaken. Those who thought they would lie down when Vardy put Leicester ahead with a sublime first half finish were given a rude shock.

City responded brilliantly. Riyad Mahrez was all but unplayable on City's right flank in the first half. In the second half, Kevin de Bruyne took over as the game's most dominant player. Some of his midfield play was breathtaking, particularly the way in which he set up City's third for Gabriel Jesus.

But Mahrez restored parity for the Premier League champions eight minutes later after the Algerian had made a bright start

Germany's Ilkay Gundogan then converted from the spot for his second goal of the season to put City ahead at the Etihad

Manchester City dominated with chances early on and went closest when Kasper Schmeichel saved from Gabriel Jesus

Kevin De Bruyne was once again in inspired form after his excellent display against Arsenal at the Emirates last weekend

This was the champions back at their best. This was City in their pomp again. This was City drawing gasps from supporters with the range and the brilliance of their attacking options. This was City at their relentless, beautiful best.

Even Guardiola, who has been so fretful recently, seemed calmed by what he had seen. 'I must say 'thank you' to the players for following me and playing the way we wanted,' the City boss said. 'I have tried to convince the players that this is the team we want to be. If we win or lose, this is the team we can be.

'Leicester have the best defensive record in the league. We have scored three times – and we could have scored a lot more. We were incredibly aggressive without the ball. We were good because we did the most difficult thing in football by playing simple. We passed the ball and when we do that it opens everything up.

'We are only one point behind what Real Madrid and Barcelona have this season and they are at the top of the league in Spain. The problem that Liverpool have won 16 games out of 17 in the league. Against that, it's hats off and congratulate them.'

But it was Leicester who took a surprise lead through Vardy who broke and lifted the ball over the onrushing Ederson

But Mahrez levelled things up after a driven effort which went in off Caglar Soyuncu and wrong footed Schmeichel

Ilkay Gundogan then converted from the spot for his second goal of the season to put City ahead at the Etihad

City are 11 points behind Liverpool, yes, but if they can plug some of the holes that keep appearing in their defence, we know they are a team capable of putting a long, unbeaten run together. If they do that, a Liverpool team playing against the weight of history as well as Guardiola’s brilliant side, may start to feel the heat.

When Leicester beat City here in February 2016, it was, for many, the moment that their title challenge seemed real and that the impossible started to seem possible. After Leicester took the lead here, some thought that maybe history was repeating itself.

City subjected Leicester to intense pressure in the opening stages and nearly took the lead after 13 minutes. Mahrez, one of the stars of Leicester’s title-winning side was booed by the visiting fans behind the goal as he tortured and teased Ben Chilwell down the City right. When he laid the ball back to De Bruyne, the City midfielder lashed his shot against the base of the post.

Mahrez was unplayable in those early exchanges. Soon after, he ran at Chilwell again and lured him into a challenge before dragging the ball away from him with a sublime touch and firing the ball across goal. Gabriel Jesus tried to steer it past Kasper Schmeichel but it was cleared off the line.

Mahrez had a couple of early chances in the second half to extend Manchester City's lead as their dominance continued

But Harvey Barnes spurned a glorious chance to level it up but failed to connect with Vardy's cross before going off injured

City were given a glimpse of the danger Leicester pose on the break when Vardy chased down a long ball and cut inside Nicolas Otamendi. He played the ball into the six yard area but Harvey Barnes could not quite get the touch he needed as he stretched to meet it.

City did not heed the warning, though. A couple of minutes later, Leicester beat City’s press and played the ball out of defence down the left. Chilwell found Barnes, who threaded a ball outside Fernandinho and into the path of Vardy. Vardy hurtled towards goal and as Ederson came out to meet him, Vardy lifted the ball deftly over him and it floated gently into the net. It was a brilliant finish.

Five minutes later, Vardy went close again. Again, he was set free by a clever long ball over the top of the City defence. He ran at Otamendi and turned him inside out before jinking past Fernandinho and blasting his shot just over the bar. City’s vulnerability to the counter their uncertainty in defence, was a reminder of just why they have fallen so far behind Liverpool this season.

But after half an hour, Mahrez finally got the reward his brilliance deserved. Rarely can Chilwell have had such an uncomfortable first half and Mahrez left him chasing shadows again when he took a long ball down on his chest and cut inside. With Chilwell trailing, Mahrez fired in a left foot shot and when it took a deflection off Caglar Soyuncu, Schmeichel was wrong-footed. City were level.

But Jesus then ended his Etihad nightmare by getting on the end of De Bruyne's firm cross across the box at the back post

Pep Guardiola's side cut the gap to Brendan Rodgers' men to one point in the Premier League table with the victory

City began to turn the screw now and three minutes before half time, they took the lead. For once, they attacked down the other flank and this time it was Raheem Sterling who lured Ricardo Pereira into a bad choice.

When Pereira lunged to try to steal the ball away from the England winger, Sterling was too quick for him. He pushed the ball past him, Pereira stood on his foot and Sterling went down. Ilkay Gundogan placed the spot kick low past Schmeichel’s left hand into the corner.

Leicester had one golden chance to equalise. It came, inevitably, from another lightning quick, superbly executed counter attack. This time, Vardy was the creator, sprinting away down the right and curling a perfect cross into the path of Barnes.

Barnes got to it before Ederson but the keeper did enough to make the Leicester forward take his eye off the ball and instead of making firm contact, he could only slice the ball wide. It was the turning point of the match.

Twenty minutes from the end, De Bruyne, who had taken over from Mahrez as the game’s outstanding player, tore through the heart of the Leicester defence and drilled his cross to the back post where Gabriel Jesus was waiting to prod it over the line and re-establish City as the title race’s most credible challengers.