Escape to the Chateau viewers branded Dick and Angel's Christmas decorations 'magical' as they prepared the Château de la Motte-Husson in France for the festive season.

In last night's episode of the Channel 4 show, Dick, 48, and Angel, 59, set out to create a traditional French Christmas with an exquisite menu and some stunning Christmas crafts - including candy-cane wreaths and handmade Santa sacks.

And viewers were quick to take to Twitter to praise the impressive finishing touches.



'Christmas at Chateau Husson seems magical. Just magical,' enthused one, while a second praised: 'Warm feeling inside. Your Château, my Château. Your love, my love! Warm fuzzy feeling inside! Love one another and enjoy it! Life is too short to waste it!'

In last night's episode of Channel 4's Escape to the Chateau, Dick, 48, and Angel, 59, created a traditional French Christmas with an exquisite menu and some beautiful Christmas crafts. Pictured, the table centrepiece

Creative Angel set to work making handmade Santa sacks for Arthur and Dorothy's presents - complete with handmade pom poms (pictured)

Angel also had a helping hand making the heart-themed candy-cane wreaths which were displayed in the windows of the chateau (pictured)

A third added: 'I've totally got the Christmas feels after watching #escapetothechateau. Dick and Angel are such an inspiration #missyoualready,' while a fourth agreed:

'Merry Christmas to everyone at #EscapeToTheChateau, to the amazingly inspirational couple and of course to Arthur and Dorothy. You inspire me the most and I really admire you all. Such a beautiful family. Have a wonderful Christmas.'

Each week, the programme follows the ambitious pair as they renovate a 45-bedroom Château-de-la-Motte Husson in France, which they bought in 2014 for £280,000.

But last night they took a break from DIY to concentrate on getting their home ready for the upcoming festivities.

The programme usually follows the couple as they renovate a 45-bedroom Château-de-la-Motte Husson in France, which they bought in 2014 for £280,000 (pictured)

The garland for the staircase was made from herbs to give off a 'heavenly' scent - and was finished off with a light sprinkle of frost (pictured)

Impressed viewers took to Twitter and branded the finished look both 'magical' and 'amazing' (pictured)

Amongst the festive flourishes, Angel created candy-cane wreaths and Santa sacks for Arthur and Dorothy's presents - complete with handmade pom poms.

'There's something about making something at Christmas time that's different,' she said. 'It's because you know it's going to come out every year. I just love it. I love tradition.'

She then created a leafy staircase arrangement made from herbs that gave off a 'heavenly' scent, before moving onto the winter wonderland table centrepiece.

'You put the plates down first,' she said. 'A lot of these are really, really dried flowers that I got from the garden. 'They've still got a lot of charm to them. I like them a lot.'

Angel then complete the look with a light sprinkle of frost, used old books to add height, while her collection of deer helped to create an enchanting table setting.

'Everybody has been made a little animal,' she said. 'They're very, very cute. They can take it away as a memory.'

Following the 'joyous' episode, many expressed their disappointment that the much-loved series had come to an end.

'So going to miss #escapetothechateau. You guys are my escapism. I love the positivity and can do attitude,' wrote one, while another commented: 'I shall so miss #escapetothechateau It’s just such a total love fest. Relentlessly positive, jolly and full of laughter and kindness. Perfect Christmas viewing.'

Dick and Angel created a bûche de Noël - the French equivalent of a yule log. Pictured together

Following the festive episode, one person who tuned in admitted: 'I've totally got the Christmas feels after watching that' (pictured)

Meanwhile, other fans of the show were keen to send their Christmas wishes to Dick, Angel and their family.

'Aaaaahhh #escapetothechateau hit all the Christmas feels tonight. @angeladoree & @dickstrawbridge - Merry Christmas to you all, wishing you the most wonderful time,' wrote one, while a second penned:

'Another amazing episode. Tears are flowing at the loveliness of the show and because it’s the last in the series!! Can’t wait until the next series. Have a brilliant Christmas Dick, Angel & family.'

A third commented: 'Nooooo can’t believe this beautiful series has finished..Sunday evenings have been absolute bliss. What am I going to do now? Thank you Dick and Angel.'