Dua Lipa seems to be getting more cozy with boyfriend Anwar Hadid by the day since going public with their relationship this summer.

The couple doesn't shy away from the PDA, putting on romantic displays for red carpets and social media.

They were spotted stepping out Saturday in New York City as they appeared to be heading out of town for the holidays.

Hitting the road: Dua Lipa and Anwar Hadid were spotted stepping out Saturday in New York City as they appeared to be heading out of town for the holidays

Lipa, 24, cut a bold winter look in a neon green sweater with black pants and matching chunky platform shoes.

Hadid, 20, sported a black hoodie with navy blue pants, adorned with zippers and white paint splatters.

The lovebirds were also accompanied by some furry critters, which traveled in a plastic kennel.

Lipa later took to her story to reveal they were in fact baby goats, possibly the most adorable travel companions ever.

Bold look: Lipa, 24, cut a bold winter look in a neon green sweater with black pants and matching chunky platform shoes

Keeping warm: Hadid, 20, sported a black hoodie with navy blue pants, adorned with zippers and white paint splatters

Cutest travel companions: The lovebirds were also accompanied by some furry critters, which turned out to be baby goats

The couple has been quite the jetsetters lately, as Lipa gears up to launch her sophomore album Future Nostalgia.

She recently posted photos of herself and Hadid as he carried her across a tarmac to their private jet.

Lipa has since been promoting the new album with appearances on The Voice and The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon.

She said of the album on Apple Music's Beats 1: 'I spoke about like women in Saudi Arabia and the rights and the things that happen or like if I'm supporting different charities and talking about certain things, especially women protesting about women's rights.

'I'm never going to shy away from that and I feel like I have to be a voice for my audience as well because they gave me that platform for that reason.'

Jetting off: The couple has been quite the jetsetters lately, as Lipa gears up to launch her sophomore album Future Nostalgia