Advertisement

She has jetted to St. Barts for a festive holiday with her family.

And Rita Ora showcased her incredible bikini body as she hit the beach for a spot of sunbathing during her festive getaway on Saturday.

The singer, 29, turned heads in a red bandeau bikini, which showed off her figure to perfection as she pulled back her hair with a paisley printed silk scarf.

Beach babe: Rita Ora showcased her incredible bikini body as she hit the beach for a spot of sunbathing on Saturday during her sunny festive getaway to the Caribbean isalnd of St Barts.

Rita teased a hint of her cleavage in the strapless bikini top, while the bottoms made the most of her taut midriff and long legs

Donning a pair of black shades, the Anywhere hitmaker looked effortlessly stylish as she kept her head cool from the sunny climes with a silk scarf.

Rita went make-up free for the outing but accessorised her beach get-up with layers of gold and silver necklaces.

Wow factor: Rita teased a hint of her cleavage in the strapless bikini top, while the bottoms made the most of her taut midriff and long legs, and teased her hint of ample cleavage in the tight top

Pair: Rita has joined her mother Vera, father Besnik, sister Elena and brother Don, 22, for the luxury trip (pictured: Rita and Vera walk hand in hand)

After topping up her tan, Rita walked along the beach with her mother Vera, 55, who wowed in a navy halterneck swimsuit and leopard print silk scarf, which she wrapped around her slender waist.

The family then headed on a small jet boat to go out to sea.

Rita has joined her mother Vera, father Besnik, sister Elena and brother Don, 22, for the luxury trip.

Fashion maven: Donning a pair of black shades, the Anywhere hitmaker looked effortlessly stylish as she kept her head cool from the sunny climes with a silk scarf

Soaking up the sun: Rita enjoyed a spot of sunbathing during the beach trip

The songstress has shared a slew of bikini-clad snaps on her Instagram during the holiday.

Feeling reflective in one post, she wrote: 'Holiday starts now. 2019...it’s been...busy...one movie Oliver Twist (can’t wait for you all to see it next year!)

'One world tour one tv show 5 campaigns a few magazine covers 4 music videos, prepping for 2020...launched my own tequila @prosperotequila which got ranked top 10 first year!! (number 7)

She's got style: Rita went make-up free for the outing but accessorised her beach get-up with layers of gold and silver necklaces

Boat trip: The family then headed on a small jet boat to go out to sea

Back on the sand: The pop star sat back down to take a phone call and showed off her bronzed pins as she did so

'Hmmmm what else? It’ll come to me, it’s late and I’m tired while I’m posting this but I love you and I get moushiiii on vacation so deal with it...I’m grateful and ready for 2020.'

Rita is braced for a busy 2020 when The Masked Singer kicks off on January 4, but she was forced to sit out its press launch in December after falling ill.

Her absence let co-panelists Jonathan Ross and Davina McCall able to dish the dirt on the star - who will sit alongside them and guesses which celebrities are singing in front of them while wearing massive costumes.

Your chariot awaits: The star climbed onto a speedboat from the sea with the help of two staff who kept the craft steady

Going for a ride: Rita then went for a ride in the boat with her mother as they enjoyed the pretty sights of the Caribbean island

Here you go: Rita appeared to hold out her phone and a small bag before climbing into the boat, as she showed off her sunny headgear and and shades before going for her boat ride

I'm over here: The pop star waved while sitting down on her colourful towels as she enjoyed her getaway just days before Christmas

'We love Rita, but she was the kid of the team,' Jonathan said. 'She was on her f**king phone the whole time. Checking the gram, checking the gram, checking the gram.

'She said to me "I've just moved into a new house, I'm looking for a hoover". I had to say to her "you're recording a new big show - now is not the time to find yourself a hoover!"'

Jonathan also joked that he was like Rita's uncle and that he and Davina 'shared her' in a 'joint-custody' arrangement.

Sizzling: Rita also took to Instagram to share several snaps of her incredible figure in a lilac halterneck bikini, as she relaxed on a yacht in the ocean