She recently admitted to having lost a stone in the jungle following her I'm A Celebrity win.

And Jacqueline Jossa couldn't hide her delight as she took to Instagram Stories to share a post revealing that she could finally fit into a skirt that had been too small for her 18 months ago.

The actress, 27, told fans that despite losing weight last year she decided to keep the skirt until she could squeeze into it, and danced around the room as she shared her now-fitting skirt in the post.

Slimmed down: Jacqueline Jossa took to Instagram Stories on Saturday to reveal that she could finally fit into a skirt that had been too small for her 18 months ago

In her series of posts, Jacqueline explained to fans that she first purchased the red tartan skirt with a zip fastening 18 months ago in her bid to shift the pounds.

For over a year she was unable to squeeze into the bottoms, but the former EastEnders star was thrilled to tell fans the skirt finally fit her.

She said: 'Good Morning all, it's a good day and I shall tell you why it's a good day, I was going to do a makeup tutorial, but there's no point because I'm going to get painted green and turned into the grinch.

'Guess what.. my skirt fits me!

Truth: The actress told her fans that she first bought the skirt 18 months ago, and despite losing some weight was unable to fit into it

Elated: Jacqueline then confirmed that following her jungle stint she could finally squeeze into the skirt, and proceeded to unveil the piece to fans as she did a celebratory danc

'Now this skirt I bought, I think a year and a half ago, so summer the year before and I did lose weight but it still didn't fit me because you know when you go into the shop and you think I'm gonna buy that size because I'm skinny now, and then I thought I'm gonna keep that skirt until I fit it.'

Jacqueline then stepped back from the camera and pulled up her jumper to unveil the skirt, as she told her followers: 'You know what ladies and gentleman, today is a good day!'

The star then shared a hilarious dance in her skirt as she displayed her trim post-jungle physique, and told her followers she 'couldn't believe' the skirt fits her.

Trim: After she was crowned I'm A Celebrity champion, Jacqueline stunned fans when she revealed her incredible weight loss after living off a diet of rice and beans

After she was crowned I'm A Celebrity champion, Jacqueline stunned fans when she revealed her incredible weight loss after living off a diet of rice and beans in the camp.

It also comes as Jacqueline also appeared to tease a fashion collaboration with brand In The Style, after posing for a snap with the brand's CEO Adam Frisby.

Nothing has officially been announced as of yet, but Adam made sure to keep fans guessing as he simply teased alongside his photo: 'Little catch up with the queen today.'