Coldplay has recorded a new version of one of its hit songs for a mother whose son and husband died just days apart.

The chart-topping band recorded the song to help a charity founded by Rhian Mannings, 41, who lost her baby son George to pneumonia when he was just one.

Scroll down for video.

Paul Mannings pictured with his son George. Mr Mannings took his own life five days after his one-year-old son, George, died from pneumonia

Rhian Mannings, 41, has since campaigned for bereavement support for families and founded a charity called 2 Wish Upon A Star

Five days later her devastated husband Paul, 33, took his own life - and since Paul's death in 2012 Ms Mannings, from Miskin, South Wales, has campaigned for bereavement support for families.

She founded a charity called 2 Wish Upon A Star and Coldplay have recorded a special song for their app to help the charity.

The band has done an emotional version of hit track Sky Full of Stars which plays when the app is opened.

Ms Mannings said the band gave her the song as Paul was friends with drummer Will Champion.

Mr Mannings (pictured) was friends with Coldplay drummer Will Champion, with the pair playing hockey together at university. Coldplay recorded an emotional version of its hit song A Sky Full of Stars to help the charity on an app

She said: 'Paul and Will played hockey together in university and their relationship grew from there.

'When Paul died, Coldplay contacted me to say how sorry they were, and we've kept in touch ever since.

Coldplay invited Ms Mannings to their concert in Cardiff and dedicated the song Paradise to Paul

'They invited us to their concert in Cardiff where they dedicated the song Paradise to Paul, and now they have recorded this new version of Sky Full of Stars which is just beautiful.

'Just before they went on the Graham Norton Show, Chris Martin played a short version of the track on a piano which we will use on loop on the app.'

The app, also called Sky Full of Stars, is designed to help families remember their loved ones.

It allows users to dedicate stars to those who have died and post messages to them.

Ms Mannings said: 'These stars are there as a reminder of the love we hold for those no longer with us.'

For confidential support in the UK call the Samaritans on 116123, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details.