Outside of Craven Cottage were a merry little band playing Christmas songs. For the first time in a while, Scott Parker got a tune out of his Fulham squad, too.

It is never easy for a manager when his position is being questioned, even worse when an experienced out-of-work boss is sitting in the stands.

David Moyes was at the Cottage, watching intently and appearing to make markings on a team sheet. Perhaps he had heard of a vacancy opening up soon.

Aleksandar Mitrovic netted 17th league goal of the season from the spot to put Fulham ahead

MATCH FACTS Fulham: Rodak, Christie, Mawson, Ream, Bryan, Cairney, Reed (Johansen 90), Onomah, Ivan Cavaleiro (Knockaert 90), Mitrovic, Reid (Sessegnon 90). Subs Not Used: Bettinelli, Kebano, O'Riley, Kamara. Booked: Reed, Bryan, Mitrovic. Goals: Mitrovic 7 pen, Onomah 69. Leeds: Casilla, Ayling (Stevens 72), White, Cooper, Dallas, Phillips, Helder Costa (Nketiah 46), Klich, Hernandez (Alioski 3), Harrison, Bamford. Subs Not Used: Meslier, Berardi, Gotts, Casey. Booked: Klich, Cooper, Helder Costa, Alioski. Goals: Bamford 54. Ref: Tim Robinson (West Sussex).

Or perhaps he was scouting for his next job, possibly with West Ham should they relieve Manuel Pellegrini of his duties. Whatever the reason, it was intriguing.

Parker responded to three consecutive losses by picking up three valuable points, with talisman Aleksandar Mitrovic and young gun Josh Onomah scoring the goals that did the job.

Marcelo Bielsa, meanwhile, left knowing his side missed out on moving top for Christmas.

It is not all doom and gloom for Bielsa, of course. Leeds United remain nine points inside the top two, though he will remember their Christmas collapse last season all too well.

After letting a 3-0 lead slip to draw 3-3 against Cardiff last week, this was Leeds' first defeat since October, and one they never saw coming.

Within 10 seconds of kick-off, the Leeds supporters were singing Pablo Hernandez's name on repeat. Within 40, he was down on the ground, having pulled up with a hamstring problem.

Fulham midfielder Josh Onomah smashed in the winner after the ball fell for him from a corner

On came Ezgjan Alioksi as a replacement. Leeds' start to the game got even worse in the fifth minute, when referee Tim Robinson pointed to the penalty spot.

Mitrovic had volleyed a cross into the mixer for Bobby Decordova-Reid but Ben White was seen with two hands on his opponent's back, giving a slight shove.

It was soft and Leeds players protested while Mitrovic readied himself to take it.

Goalkeeper Kiko Casilla got a hand to the Serbian's subsequent shot but it went in off the post. Fulham had a surprise 1-0 lead, with a little help from the referee.

Leeds levelled after the break through Patrick Bamford's tap-in on the rebound

Season at a glance Live tables

Fixtures

Scores Championship

Premier League

Championship

League One

League Two

Scottish Premiership

Scottish Div 1

Scottish Div 2

Scottish Div 3

Ligue 1

Serie A

La Liga

Bundesliga





There was good hostility to the game; a bit of needle between both sets of players. Challenges flew in, and Mitrovic became king of the 50-50s.

Luke Ayling, already playing pantomime villain among the Fulham fans after early antics, then pushed Tom Cairney to the ground off the pitch and received a talking-to.

Leeds were unbeaten in their last 11 league games and equalised in the 54th minute, when half-time substitute Eddie Nketiah fired off a shot at Marek Rodak.

Fulham's goalkeeper could only parry the ball into the path of Patrick Bamford, who tapped in. It was game on with Nketiah, the 20-year-old on loan from Arsenal, looking particularly lively.

Yet Leeds found themselves trailing again in the 68th minute, when Mitrovic attempted an acrobatic overhead kick from a cross. He missed the ball, but Onomah didn't.

The 22-year-old put his foot through a shot, and Casilla had no chance.

Onomah had his first goal for Fulham since signing from Tottenham as part of the deal that saw Ryan Sessegnon go the other way.

There was no way back for Leeds. They remain second, nine points clear of third, but this knocked some of the stuffing out of their Christmas cheer regardless.