That's quite a way to put on make-up.

Dakota Fanning wore just a G-string as she applied her makeup while sitting on her bathroom sink in a snap she posted to Instagram on Thursday.

The beautiful blonde, 25, had a logical explanation for what she was doing in the nearly nude snap, writing in the caption: 'Too far from the mirror? Get in the sink.'

Sexy shot: Dakota Fanning didn't appear to be wearing anything beyond a peach filter over her derriere in this Instagram she shared Friday, saying, 'Too far from the mirror? Get in the sink'

The star showed off her back and legs, while a peach filter covered her shapely derriere. The top of her decolletage was visible in the mirror in the sexy shot as she twisted her blonde hair into a low bun.

Younger sister Elle, 21, confirmed that she had taken the picture in Dakota’s comment section.

On Tuesday evening Dakota was wearing considerably more at a book party for her friend, Italian filmmaker and photographer Floria Sigismondi.

The Twilight Saga star donned a gorgeous black dress with a white lace collar for the event at Chateau Marmont in West Hollywood. It also featured red poppies embroidered around the puff sleeves and the hem of the skirt.

Floral frock: On Tuesday evening Dakota was wearing considerably more at a book party for her friend, Italian filmmaker and photographer Floria Sigismondi at Chateau Marmont in LA

Dakota has known Floria since working with her and Kristen Stewart on 2010's The Runaways, which was the Italian's feature film debut.

She also appeared in Floria's 2012 music video for Icelandic band Sigur Ros.

Her Eat The Sun is a coffee table book featuring images of her film and photographic work with rockers such as David Bowie, Rihanna, Justin Timberlake, The Cure and Marilyn from the past 25 years.

Having too much fun: Dakota was among the presenters who announced the Golden Globes nominations at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Beverly Hills on December 9

Meanwhile Dakota, who co-starred in Once Upon A Time In Hollywood, has four projects on the go.

Her Viena And The Fantomes is completed and yet to set a release date. TNT TV series The Angel Of Darkness and The Nightingale are both in pre-production.

And Dakota has been announced to star as Esther Greenwood in The Bell Jar.