Suggested: 'She's much better in boots and jeans than a pretty frock'

Said the Duchess of Cambridge is 'excelling' at her patronages and duties

A royal biographer has claimed Kate Middleton 'is much better in boots and jeans than in a pretty frock' and is 'just a normal girl who married a Prince'.

Claudia Joseph, who's written a number of books about Kate, said the Duchess of Cambridge, 37, has hit her stride in the royal family this year and has been 'excelling' at her patronages and duties.

This year has seen Kate take on a hands-on approach with a variety of charities and organisations, with a focus on Early Years Development and children.

Speaking to Vanity Fair, Claudia said: 'I’ve always thought she’s much better in boots and jeans than a pretty frock and she excels when she’s doing something close to her heart.'

Despite the royal joining The Firm in 2011, Claudia said that this has been the year Kate has shown who she really is and 'earned her spurs.'

She explained: 'She feels she can be herself and doesn’t have to hide or be on her guard.'

Royal biographer Claudia Joseph suggested Kate Middleton, 37, was 'much better in jeans and boots than pretty frocks' as she exalted the Duchess of Cambridge as her best year in the royal family yet. Pictured: Kate on a visit to Cumbria in June 2019

The royal has taken on a handful of new patronages and duties this year, with a clear focus in early years development. Pictured: Visiting Peterley Manor Farm in Buckinghamshire in her new role as patron of Family Action

Claudia added that it has been 'a great year' for the Duchess, and said the public have seen the royal 'at her best'.

The royal biographer pointed to the highly successful tour of Pakistan as one of Kate's big successes in 2019.

The royal biographer also pointed to the Duchesses' nature gardens with the Royal Horticultural Society as a real highlight for the mother-of-three.

She also hailed Kate's lack of airs and graces, saying: 'She might have married a prince, but she’s a normal girl just like the rest of us.'

The Duchess has been widely praised by many for her dedication to children's development this year, with commentators suggesting she has taken the year in her stride (pictured, at 'Back To Nature' Festival at RHS Garden Wisley in September)

Claudia isn't the first commentator to suggest Kate has hit her stride with royal duties this year.

Last week, Judi James revealed how Kate's calm and confident display at the Queen's Diplomatic Reception at Buckingham Palace was in stark contrast to her nervous appearance at her first state banquet in 2015.

Speaking to Femail, Judi James noted her open smile and relaxed hands marked the Duchess of Cambridge's growing ease with high importance royal functions, hinting at her role as future Queen.

And in November, the chief executives of one of her patronages suggested that 'nervous' Kate Middleton had found new confidence and 'grown' into her role in the royal family.

Graham Butland told People that he could remember the royal's first ever public speech at the East Anglia's Children's Hospice in Ipswich back in March 2012, saying that she was 'so nervous'.

Claudia suggested the royal had found causes close to her heart this year and that she was 'excelling' at her royal duty. Pictured: Kate a traditional fell sheep farm, in Patterdale, Cumbria

'In the very early days, I remember her coming into a room and her head would be slightly down and the long hair would be across. Now, she comes in with her head held high,' he said.

Reports of Kate's growing confidence in her role, follow a recent article in People magazine which revealed how the Duchess of Cambridge has grown from a 'young student' into a 'future queen.

Several royal sources have commented on the Duchess' growing confidence in her role as the future queen consort.

'She is now more open with what she wants to say, and funnily enough, she is more relaxed as well,' one family friend told the publication.

Many commentators have pointed to the success of Prince William and Kate Middleton's tour of Pakistan (pictured) as another sign of the royal's growing confidence

Another said: 'She is an adoring mother, and she is contributing publicly in the way we would want her to. You see it more and more. The young student has turned into our future Queen.'

The article pointed to the Duchess' increasingly focused interest in mental health, early intervention and children's charities.

It also noted the confident way in which the Duchess of Cambridge delivered her speech at the official opening of her Back to Nature garden at RHS Wisley in September.