Amber Turner has hit out at her arch nemesis Chloe Sims once again after the pair had another blazing row during filming.

The reality starlet, 26, and Chloe had a war of words during the Christmas special when they came face-to-face for the first time in eight months to discuss Dan Edgar.

And now Amber has claimed the TOWIE veteran screamed to producers that she 'didn't want to be in the same room as her' during a explosive row off-camera.

Feud: Amber Turner has hit out at her arch nemesis Chloe Sims once again after the pair had another blazing row during filming (pictured filming the show last month)

Amber told The Sun: 'The whole cast were filming again the next day and in between scenes she started screaming "I don't want to be in the same room as her, she's mugged me off".

'We were eating dinner and she just started screaming at the producers that she didn't want to be around me, the next minute she had left the room and I was left eating my roast with my boyfriend and my friends.

'I just think the whole thing is very strange, it is just petty, immaturity from someone who is more than 10 years older than me.'

MailOnline has contacted Chloe's representatives and TOWIE for comment.

At loggerheads: The reality starlet, 26, and Chloe had a war of words during the Christmas special as they came face-to-face for the first time in eight months to discuss Dan Edgar

The row comes after Chloe accused her one-time love rival of being cruel about her 15-year-old daughter Madison.

The duo have been at loggerheads since the show veteran enjoyed a fling with Amber's now-boyfriend Dan Edgar, 29, earlier this year - during which it was revealed that he had been two-timing the pair.

Chloe shares Madison with her daughter with her ex-boyfriend, and she welcomed the teen when she 18 and he was 24. She first revealed a picture of him in June, having previously remained guarded over his identity.

Fuming: The row comes after Chloe accused her one-time love rival of being cruel about her 15-year-old daughter Madison (pictured in 2016)

In the TOWIE Christmas special, Amber blasted Chloe for 'screaming like a lunatic' when they met for the first time since the pair fell out over Dan.

Amber clashed with Chloe during their first conversation in eight months - after Chloe had a brief fling with Amber's on-off boyfriend. The reunion came ahead of a Christmas party in the upcoming Christmas Special of the ITVBe show.

Amber told The Sun, Chloe 'lost her s**t' during their conversation, before 'screaming and pointing' at her: 'She was screaming like a lunatic. She was squaring up to me like a loon. I was just shocked. I couldn't believe she lost it like that'.

Chloe became close to Dan, 29, during a trip to Thailand in April after he and Amber split however he soon began romancing the pair before reuniting with Amber.

Following the comments, Chloe wrote on social media: 'I haven't reacted to this much on social media, but I feel like I have no choice after reading yet another article from a certain individual...

Love triangle: The duo have been at loggerheads since the show veteran enjoyed a fling with Amber's now-boyfriend Dan Edgar, 29, earlier this year

'Where I've been called a 'crazy lunatic' after being slagged off for being a single mum and even heard she had made mean remarks about my innocent child off-camera, I was absolutely raging like any mother would be...

'I refused to film with her for this reason, I even addressed this on camera which was edited out to protect her? This resulted in her claiming I wouldn't speak to her in many scenes...

'Again playing the viewers to her advantage, I let it go as I didn't want to lose my temper on national TV. After her constantly calling me out for eight months knowing full well why I was so angry I gave in!...

'For the record there is so much said and done off camera as you can imagine it also wasn't my idea to make peace with Dan. The fact she is now claiming cast are scared on me is the best bit!...

'No hun.. I'm a respected cast member and many friends in front and behind the cameras so please stop trying to tarnish my character.'

She then referenced Amber's dismissal from the show earlier this year when she was accused of bad behaviour on set.

Amber soon hit back, saying: 'I have been advised to not comment on some of the things that have been put out on social media. Just to lay the matter to bed, I have not and would never say something nasty or otherwise about a child...

'No matter what my opinion might be about their parent I promise you now I am not that vindictive. So can we all please behave like adults if you have something you want to talk about then my door is always open.'