Incredible footage shows Youtubers pulling off what is apparently the world's largest 'elephant's toothpaste' explosion in the back yard of one of their homes.

The 'elephant’s toothpaste' experiment has gone viral on YouTube with over 1.1 million views and has left people wanting to know how it was done.

Youtube personalities Nick Uhas and David Dobrik wanted to outdo an attempt by YouTuber and former NASA engineer Mark Rober who carried out a similar stunt earlier this year.

Incredible footage shows Youtubers pulling off what is apparently the world's largest 'elephant's toothpaste' explosion in the back yard of one of their homes

In footage, Uhas explains the science behind his experiment, with 200 cubic meters of foam spilling over in the backyard of his home in California.

It involved using hydrogen peroxide, adding soap and food coloring dye, and then 'catalyzing a rapid decomposition of the hydrogen peroxide with the potassium iodide,' according to Nerdist.

The 'elephant’s toothpaste' experiment has gone viral on YouTube with over 1.1 million views and has left people wanting to know how it was done

Youtube personalities Nick Uhas and David Dobrik are seen running for cover as the concoction of hydrogen peroxide, soap and food coloring dye explodes all around them

Footage showed a lava-like concoction of blue foam spreading far and wide as those watching it run for cover

The mixture results in the substances transforming into oxygen gas which grows larger and gets stuck in soapy water which is how the bubbles are created. This subsequently turns into a foam explosion.

In a video, Uhas explains: 'We start with 35 per cent hydrogen peroxide and we add soap and food coloring dye, we then add a catalyst potassium iodine in our case.

'When these two chemicals mix together it strips one of the oxygen's of the hydrogen peroxide which creates oxygen gas.

Youtube personalities Nick Uhas, (left), and David Dobrik, (right), wanted to outdo an attempt by former NASA engineer Mark Rober who carried out a similar stunt

'This gas then gets caught in the soap mixture and creates a tonne of foam very fast if you use the right catalyst.'

The result was 200 cubic meters of foam spilling over into their backyard. Footage showed a lava-like concoction of blue foam spreading far and wide as those watching it run for cover. A bang can also be heard.

The mixture is also eco-friendly which means it would not have damaged any surfaces or foliage that it spilled out on to.