A Mississippi teacher caused outrage when she sent a letter to parents claiming kids 'shouldn't eat anything' if they didn't bring food to a Christmas party.

Takaria Scott, whose daughter Sariah attends a school in Mississippi's Meridian Public School District, shared a letter on Facebook earlier this month which caused distress among the parents.

The letter from a teacher had her daughter's name and a list of food items to bring in for her class party.

A Mississippi teacher caused outrage when she sent a letter to parents claiming kids 'shouldn't eat anything' if they didn't bring food to a Christmas party

Takaria Scott, (pictured), whose daughter Sariah attends a school in Mississippi's Meridian Public School District, shared a letter on Facebook earlier this month which caused distress

But the letter added an offensive comment from the teacher which read: 'My philosophy is: if they don't bring anything, they don't eat anything,' the unnamed teacher's warning read.'

Scott said she was angered by the instruction in her Facebook post which went viral and was seen 6,700 times.

She claimed: 'Now for these kids to be between 6-7yrs this should not be a philosophy. Kids are kids man. This is definitely not acceptable in my eyes.'

Many users expressed their opposition to the remark with one branding it 'outrageous and humiliating.'

One wrote: 'Not acceptable at all. Some may not be able to bring the “elected item”. I teach 4th grade.

'When I have class party, I let my students generate the list of items that they would like to have and I let them volunteer to bring the items they would like to bring.

'If they aren’t able to contribute, they can still participate and I don’t make an issue about it because these are children. Their parents are the ones that need to shop and/or prepare the food.'

The school district's superintendent Amy J. Carter, apologized and claimed their mission is for students to be educated in a 'safe, innovative and learning environment'

Another person claimed: 'I remember how humiliating it was for me as a student when there were class parties and my parents could not afford that luxury for 4 different parties.

'When there is a party for any of my classes, I bring enough for everyone.'

In a letter which was shared by Scott, the school district's superintendent Amy J. Carter, apologized and claimed their mission is for students to be educated in a 'safe, innovative and learning environment.'

She said: 'I can't publicly speak to specifics regarding the teacher however, I can assure our families and students that all students will participate and no students will be made to feel uncomfortable if they don't bring refreshments.'

Scott then posted the letter from Carter with the message: 'And then this happened. thanks too you all that reached out in this matter as well!!! It was handled!!.'