LONDON, Dec 21 (Reuters) - Wolverhampton Wanderers returned to winning ways as they punished relegation-threatened Norwich City with a second-half comeback to win 2-1 in the Premier League on Saturday.

After their 11-match unbeaten run was ended by Tottenham Hotspur the previous week, Wolves were outplayed for an hour but goals from Romain Saiss and Raul Jimenez sealed victory.

Defeat left Norwich second from bottom, six points below the safety zone, while Wolves climbed to sixth, two points behind fourth-placed Chelsea who face Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday.

Roared on by the Carrow Road faithful, Norwich swarmed all over a slow Wolves side in the first half and had they been more ruthless in front of goal three crucial points could have been in the bag before the interval.

"Football can be the most unfair sport in the world," reflected Norwich manager Daniel Farke, whose hopes of keeping his side up are looking increasingly forlorn.

Wolves keeper Rui Patricio produced a smart early save to deny Kenny Mclean and then turned Alex Tettey's low drive against the post as Norwich swarmed forward.

Norwich took the lead in the 17th minute when Wolves failed to clear McLean's cross and Todd Cantwell smashed the ball home.

Teemu Pukki was twice denied by the over-worked Patricio as Wolves staggered to halftime only a goal in arrears.

Predictably, Wolves were a different proposition after the break and equalised after 62 minutes when the increasingly-influential Joao Moutinho whipped in a cross that Saiss met with a powerful header.

Norwich were deflated and Wolves snatched victory in the 81st minute with Jimenez on hand to convert a rebound after keeper Tim Krul saved Matt Doherty's point-blank effort.

Norwich have now not won at home since beating champions Manchester City on Sept. 26.

"You have to grab your reward and we didn't. We missed too many chances today," Farke said, insisting he was "pretty proud" of their performance.

Wolves have played more games than any other Premier League side this season, having begun the Europa League in the midsummer, but continue to show tremendous staying power.

It was the eighth time in 11 Premier League matches this season that they have conceded first yet earned at least a point.

"It is part of us, we are relentless and go to the end. Every game is very important. Every game is a cup final," manager Nuno Espirito Santo said. (Reporting by Martyn Herman Editing by Toby Davis and Ian Chadband)