Wolves manager Nuno Espirito Santo believes his side were lucky to still be in contention before a stirring comeback was completed by Raul Jimenez’s late winner in a 2-1 victory over struggling Norwich.

The Mexican’s strike added to Romain Saiss’ equaliser as Wolves rallied following an opening 45 minutes where Norwich dominated and should have been further ahead.

The Wolves boss admitted his side were lucky to still be in the game at half-time but was delighted with the reaction they showed after the break.

Nuno said: “I think the first half was not good and we let Norwich play and they played so good. They had these vertical lines which caused us so many problems.

“They created so many chances, we were lucky that we stayed in the game. Second half we were much better, we react, we adjust and we controlled the game in the second half.

“We press high, we created chances, we managed the game so (I’m) happy.

Wolves manager Nuno Espirito Santo was happy with the fight his side showed (Joe Giddens/PA)

“Not so happy with the first half, but this is the growing when you learn from your mistakes and you immediately react, that’s the growing process that we want.”

The Canaries started the game strongly and took an early lead when Todd Cantwell broke the deadlock in the 17th minute.

However, in the second half it was a different story as Saiss nodded home the equaliser from a Joao Moutinho cross in the 60th minute.

Following the leveller, Wolves kept pressing for a winner and were rewarded when Jimenez struck nine minutes from time.

The result leaves Norwich without a home win since their shock victory over Manchester City in September, with their recent points having come on the road at Everton and Leicester.

Canaries boss Daniel Farke admitted the result was tough to take, saying: “Today is one of those days when football is like the most unfair sport in the world if I’m honest.

“Football is often decided by one or two goals and if you are a better side you can lose the game and this was exactly one of those days.

“In football you can’t wait for the fair outcome. You always have to grab yourself your well-deserved reward and today sadly we missed an unbelievable amount of chances and missed the opportunity to grab ourselves this well-deserved reward.

“Congratulations to Wolves, they were able to use two out of their three chances and were unbelievably clinical and effective.

“For that we have to accept a loss that is tough to take without any doubt, because performance-wise for most periods of the game we were fantastic.”