Sofia Richie has been making sure to put on a good impression with the Kardashian/Jenner dynasty.

But the model recently focused on some of her other gal pals as she jetted off to Saudi Arabia.

She took to Instagram Friday as she enjoyed the inaugural MDL Beast Festival with some friends and boyfriend Scott Disick.

Scroll down for video

Jetsetter: Sofia Richie took to Instagram Friday as she enjoyed the inaugural MDL Beast Festival in Saudi Arabia with some friends and boyfriend Scott Disick

The 21-year-old posted a set of photos of herself posing in the cream leather seat of a luxurious helicopter.

She donned a leopard-print duster with a black turtleneck as she departed from the music festival.

Referring to one snap of her infectious smile, she captioned the photos: 'The middle pic is how I really feel about the night @mdlbeast.'

It was apparent that she enjoyed the performances, as she took to her story with videos of herself dancing.

Flight positions: The 21-year-old posted a set of photos of herself posing in the cream leather seat of a luxurious helicopter

Pure happiness: Referring to one snap of her infectious smile, she captioned the photos: 'The middle pic is how I really feel about the night @mdlbeast'

She was joined by friends Alexa Dellanos and Kathleen Riley as they sang along to J Balvin.

The group also split a hookah as they lounged around in their private suite overlooking the crowd.

Although it appeared to be a perfect evening otherwise, Richie revealed that her heel broke amid the excitement.

The ladies served looks as they posed for a mirror selfie the next day before heading back to the music festival.

They were also joined on the trip by Alec Monopoly, Matt Osborn and Richie's boyfriend Disick.

He also posted a snap of himself while seated in one of the cream leather seats of the helicopter.

Fan girls: It was apparent that she enjoyed the performances, as she took to her story with videos of herself dancing

Girls night: She was joined by friends Alexa Dellanos and Kathleen Riley as they sang along to J Balvin before jumping back on the chopper

Party foul: Although it appeared to be a perfect evening otherwise, Richie revealed that her heel broke amid the excitement

Serving looks: The ladies served looks as they posed for a mirror selfie the next day before heading back to the music festival

The boys: They were also joined on the trip by Alec Monopoly, Matt Osborn and Richie's boyfriend Disick

Co-pilot: He also posted a snap of himself while seated in one of the cream leather seats of the helicopter

Bidding farewell: Disick closed out the trip with a photo of himself in front of the colorfully-lit stage before heading home for the holidays

Disick closed out the trip with a photo of himself in front of the colorfully-lit stage before heading home for the holidays.

Richie also took to her story with a photo of herself sitting in the back seat of a car, en route to the airport.

A source close to the couple recently revealed what their life is like living together at Disick's Calabasas home.

They told Us Weekly: 'Scott’s home is still very minimalistic and Sofia hasn’t added a ton of her own "homey" things to his place. Scott is in a great place and is the best version of himself with Sofia.'

The source added: 'Sofia and Kylie [Jenner] are still very close and hang out often, and it’s so easy because they live so close to one another.

'Sofia really wants to be liked by the Kardashians and always tries to support any project any of them are working on.'