Advertisement

Lauren Silverman was proudly displaying her bronzed physique in a busty black swimsuit as she took a trip to the beach in Barbados with her boyfriend Simon Cowell and lookalike sons Adam, 13, and Eric, 5.

The star, 42, looked sensational in a geometric swimsuit as she climbed aboard a yacht for a glass of wine with her two children.

Lauren flaunted her ample cleavage in the plunging zig-zag one-piece, which featured a cut-out design at the waist.

Beach babe: Lauren Silverman was proudly displaying her bronzed physique in a busty black swimsuit as she took a trip to the beach in Barbados with her boyfriend Simon Cowell and lookalike sons Adam, 13, and Eric, 5

As ever Lauren displayed her sensational holiday style during the beach outing as she teamed the swimsuit with her printed one-piece.

The star carried her essentials in a chic beach bag as she went barefoot for the relaxing stroll in the sunshine.

Lauren shielded her raven tresses from the sun with a relaxed wide-brimmed hat as she exited a boat on the beach with her sons Adam and Eric, who displayed their remarkable similarity in matching white beach outfits.

Fit and healthy: Simon showed off his slimmer figure in a pair of white board shorts as he hit the jet-ski

Water sports: Simon appeared in his element as he boarded the jet-ski and was pushed out to sea

Busty display: Lauren flaunted her ample cleavage in the plunging zig-zag one-piece, which featured a cut-out design at the waist

She then gave birth to Eric in February 2014, and has been happily dating Simon ever since.

Simon regularly whisks his family off to Barbados every year over the Christmas period, but was not present with his family for the yacht outing.

Soaking up the sun: The American beauty appeared in high spirits as she boarded the boat

Snap-happy: Lauren couldn't resist taking her phone out as she enjoyed a ride in the boat

Gorgeous: Lauren Silverman was proudly displaying her bronzed physique in a busty black kaftan as she took a trip to the beach in Barbados with her lookalike sons Adam, 13, and Eric, 5

He has shed more than 20Ibs in weight thanks to a fastidious vegan diet, which he changed in order to keep up with young son Eric.

He told The Ellen DeGeneres Show: 'I went to see this doctor in London. We did some tests. And then a month later he said, "You have the worst diet I've ever met from any patient."

Simon then added: 'It's like the Eric diet because he actually, apart from ice cream, he actually likes water. I mean, who likes water? And his raw vegetables. So I'm on like, the Eric Cowell diet.'

Fun: She was also seen boarding a yacht with her sons Adam, 13, and Eric, 5, as she enjoyed a glass of wine on a luxury yacht

Lavish: The liner certainly proved to be a jaw-dropping sight as Lauren soaked up the sunshine with her two children

Bronzed: As she emerged from the speedboat, Lauren looked sensational in her plunging black kaftan and a matching geometric bikini, and carried her essentials in a Chanel handbag

Casual: Her sons Adam - with her ex-husband Andrew Silverman - and Eric - with her partner Simon Cowell - displayed their remarkable similarity in matching white tops

Cute: Little Eric looked incredible sweet in his summer outfit as he enjoyed the speedboat ride in the Barbados sunshine

Beautiful: Lauren completed her holiday look with a wide-brimmed Panama hat after jetting to Barbados for the festive beach break

Off they go! Simon jets his family to Barbados every year for the festive season, but was not presenting during the yacht outing

Simon's new physique has impressed his celebrity pals, with his close friend and fellow Britain's Got Talent judge David Walliams joking the star has become a 'skinny b***h'.

Taking to Twitter to share his thoughts on Simon's transformation, David tweeted a picture of his pal shirtless on the beach and said: 'Skinny b***h,' before following his post up with another of Simon that read: 'Vegan diet my a**e.'

Eric is Simon's only child and he has credited his son for changing his life for the better, ever since he was born back in 2014.

Speaking on ITV's Lorraine in September, Simon explained the impact Eric has had on him and said: 'I see my life through his eyes now and it’s much more simple and it’s much more fun.

'When you become a dad, something clicks in you. it’s all about them... You become very protective and importantly, part of the reason I changed everything in my life.'