She regularly shares her recipes and cooking tips and tricks for her millions of followers.

But Chrissy Teigen confessed on Friday that there was one kitchen tool that she hasn't touched in four years, after an incident left both her and husband John Legend in the emergency room.

The 34-year-old shared a dramatic story of how unsafe mandoline use saw them cut their fingers off.

Scroll down for video

Recalling the tragic moment: Chrissy Teigen shared a cooking horror story on Friday that saw her sent straight to the emergency room with her husband John Legend, after they both cut off their fingers in the kitchen

Making some sweet and salty plantains, Chrissy braved the incredibly sharp and dangerous device after sharing her story.

'I'm finally sharing my story,' she captioned on Instagram.

'I haven't used a mandoline for four years,' she began, adding: 'I'm getting emotional.'

Opening up: 'I'm finally sharing my story,' she captioned on Instagram

Memories: Chrissy dramatically recounted what happened on the day that she went to the emergency room four years ago

Victim: 'He cut his finger and when I say he cut his finger, he cut the entire tip off. All John has is his fingers! He doesn't need to use anything else in life really'

'I bought my first mandoline, I brought it home, because I'm so tired of slicing mom's potatoes for her scalloped potatoes.'

She continued to explain cooking in the kitchen was quite the family affair.

'I have John start slicing and he does one of his like "AHH!" he always like makes a big noise because men can't handle pain very well.'

Chrissy went on to say that she was not at all sympathetic to her EGOT winning man who cut his finger on the mandoline.

'He cut his finger and when I say he cut his finger, he cut the entire tip off. All John has is his fingers! He doesn't need to use anything else in life really.'

Lost his gift: Chrissy confessed at first she wasn't very sympathetic to her husband until she saw he had really injured himself

Gone: 'One pass through the mandoline, and I too cut my finger off immediately'

The model went on to take the job off him, and before she knew it, the same thing happened to her.

'One pass through the mandoline, and I too cut my finger off immediately.'

She continued: 'We went to the emergency room. They reattached our fingers and now I don't do anything without my Kevlar gloves.'

Kevlar gloves are resistant cut gloves that ensure their are no injuries to the hands while using sharp tools.

The hilarious video saw many users take to the comments section to share their horror stories after using the cooking device and share their support for the beauty.

Throwback: She continued: 'We went to the emergency room. They reattached our fingers and now I don't do anything without my Kevlar gloves'

Safety in the kitchen: Kevlar gloves are resistant cut gloves that ensure their are no injuries to the hands while using sharp tools

Pal and Modern Family star, Jesse Tyler Ferguson, commented: 'Stop. It. The drama.'

The clip also saw a framed photo of John and Chrissy in the emergency room after their finger's were reattached by hospital staff.

The married couple are regularly seen in the kitchen whipping up delicious meals alongside the Thai beauty's mom, Vilailuck Teigen.

Together, Chrissy and Vilailuck have released two cooking books, a range of equipment including pots and pans and are working on their next project together.

Vilailuck, known as 'Pepper Thai' lives with the duo and helps them raise their two children, Luna, three, and Miles, one.

Family: Chrissy's mom, Vilailuck, known as 'Pepper Thai' lives with the duo and helps them raise their two children, Luna, three, and Miles, one

The Lip Sync Battle host revealed earlier in the year to PopSugar that John didn't have any issues with the arrangement.

'People always ask, "Is John weirded out by it?" But no, he's completely not,' she said.

'It's not a weird thing at all. We've kind of always had a revolving door in our house or an open-door policy.'

She continued: 'People are in and out all day. It's just something we don't really notice. But she's been nothing but great. She is our friend. It's not like Mom is lurking around. She's our buddy.'