Dec 21 (Reuters) - Oliver McBurnie scored the only goal of the game as Sheffield United extended their unbeaten away record in this season's Premier League with a 1-0 win at Brighton & Hove Albion on Saturday.

The run, featuring three wins and six draws, is their longest in the top-flight of English football since 1900.

United's third victory in a row in the league lifted the Blades to fifth in the table on 28 points, one behind Chelsea, who play Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday. Brighton remain in 13th on 20 points.

The visitors had already had a goal ruled out by the video assistant referee (VAR) when McBurnie exploited indecision in the Brighton defence to take control of a long ball and lash home the winner midway through the first half.

After a toothless first-half performance, Brighton boss Graham Potter made a double substitution at halftime, introducing Aaron Connolly for Leandro Trossard and Glenn Murray for Pascal Gross.

Instead it was David McGoldrick who almost made it 2-0 early in the second half, rounding the goalkeeper before shooting into the side netting with the goal at his mercy.

Brighton's attacking fortunes improved slightly in the second half as the rain poured down, with teenage striker Connolly proving a handful with his quick feet and direct style, but they could not force an equaliser.

Potter admitted that the Blades had prevented his side from playing to their strengths and had deserved the three points.

"We didn't play well today. They made it difficult for us and we weren't as good as we like to be," he told the BBC.

"Sheffield United did what they did well. First half they were better than us and deservedly it was 1-0."

Sheffield United boss Chris Wilder was pleased with his side's performance but was not sure their good run of away form could continue much longer.

"We did a job on them, should have had more possession, but we had the better chances on the counter-attack and we're delighted to keep the away run going," he said. "The next two are Manchester City and Liverpool!" (Reporting by Philip O'Connor; editing by Martyn Herman and Ian Chadband)