She is one of the most successful models in the world, having worked in dozens of countries.

So naturally, Joan Smalls, 31, cut a fashionable figure as she enjoyed a lunch in Diriyah on the final day of the MDL Beast Festival in Saudi Arabia on Saturday.

She was joined at the event by American actor Armie Hammer, 33, who appeared to be in high spirits as he posed with the brunette beauty.

Casual: Joan Smalls, 31, cut a fashionable figure as she enjoyed a lunch in Diriyah with Armie Hammer, 33, during the MDL Beast Festival in Saudi Arabia on Saturday

Joan looked fantastic in a bright extremely long-sleeved top which boasted pink and blue stripes at the lunch.

She paired her statement top with some blue denim jeans with rips in the knees and a pair of black and brown high-top vans.

Joan wore her brunette locks perfectly styled into soft waves and added a full face of makeup including a pretty nude lipstick.

Posers: Joan looked fantastic in a bright extremely long sleeved top which boasted pink and blue stripes

Work it: Joan and Armie are in Saudi Arabia for the MDL Beast Festival which was launched this year and features immersive theatrical performances, five music stages and food stands

Armie also kept things casual for the lunch, donning a pair of smart khaki trousers and a long sleeved black top.

He also wore black trainers and completed his laid-back ensemble with a pair of sunglasses.

Joan and Armie are in Saudi Arabia for the MDL Beast Festival which was launched this year and features lots of events such as immersive theatrical performances.

Stunning: The model wore her brunette locks perfectly styled into soft waves and added a full face of makeup including a pretty nude lipstick

Style: Joan wore a trendy pair of Vans with a leopard print panel on the side with her blue jeans

The music bash also boasts five stages and plays hours of non-stop electronic music from a host of DJs and musicians.

Acts on the lineup for Saturday night include Bedouin on the Undercover Beast 2 stage and AZM on the Saudi Beast stage.

While Afrojack and Salvatore Ganacci X Sebastian Ingrosso are among the stars taking to the 45,000 capacity Big Beast stage.

Dapper: Ed Westwick looked smart in a green and black shirt which he left open over a t-shirt

Day trip: The Gossip Girl actor and Hannah Cross, who used to date Brooklyn Beckham, both opted for denim jeans and boots for the lunch

Exploring: Joan, Victoria Brito, Armie, Twan Kuyper and Neels Visser enjoyed a walk around the historical city of Diriyah during the lunch

And as well as music and theatre, the festival had more than 60 food stands including headliner Steve Aoki who opened a pop-up pizza place.

Also at the lunch on Saturday was Gossip Girl actor Ed Westwick, 32, who looked dapper in a green and black striped shirt which he left open over a black t-shirt.

He wore dark blue denim jeans and accessorised with a bracelet, necklace and pair of sunglasses.

Statement: Victoria Brito, left, wowed in a pair of emerald trousers and furry slip on shoes while shoe designer Amina Muaddi, right, donned a cool corseted top

All together: Producer Mohammed Al Turki posed with Joan and Ed against a beautiful sunny background

During the event he posed for a snap with film producer Mohammed Al Turki and supermodel Joan.

While Hannah Cross, who previously dated Brooklyn Beckham, looked effortlessly chic in a leather jacket and a Balenciaga t-shirt.

The brunette beauty completed her outfit with a pair of Dr Martin boots and wore her sleek tresses down for the afternoon.