She recently revealed she has been seeing a marriage councilor with her husband for the past five months.

But Andrea McLean and Nick Feeney put on a united display as they hit Oxford Street for a spot of Christmas shopping on Saturday.

The presenter, 50, braved the weather in a black parka with a fluffy fur hood that framed her cheerful face, while opting for comfort in a pair of white trainers.

United display: Andrea McLean and Nick Feeney put on a united display as they hit Oxford Street for a spot of Christmas shopping on Saturday

Walking closely next to her in a black jacket zipped up to his chin, was the equally casual Nick who sported an umbrella to fight off any rain.

The couple appeared to be in good spirits despite Andrea recently revealing they have been going to couple's counselling 'for the last five months'.

Andrea told Loose Women earlier this month the pair want to learn how to communicate with one another better as 'husband and wife, rather than just business partners.'

Christmas cheer: The presenter, 50, braved the weather in a black parka with a fluffy fur hood that framed her cheerful face

The presenter and her husband run a motivational website called This Girl Is On Fire - and Andrea admitted that working together has had its challenges.

She told her Loose Women co-hosts - Janet Street-Porter, Saira Khan and Coleen Nolan: 'It's difficult to draw the line between a work and home relationship.

'Nick and I have been going to counselling for the last five months or so,' she revealed as the panel discussed whether couples counselling is the perfect wedding gift.

Honest: Earlier this month Andrea revealed on Loose Women they have been going to couple's counselling 'for the last five months'

Andrea admitted her friends were concerned when they heard the couple had sought professional help.

But Andrea was quick to reassure the panel that 'everything is great' in their two-year marriage.

She admitted the issue was learning 'how [to] communicate with each other where we see each other as husband and wife not just work partners.'

Andrea and Nick married in 2017 after meeting on a blind date in 2015. It is her third marriage.