A late charge from Bayern Munich saw teenager Joshua Zirkzee and Serge Gnabry earn the German champions a 2-0 win over Wolfsburg on Saturday.

The Bavarian side go into the winter break on a high, with the same duo that secured them a midweek 3-1 win over Freiburg earning a third Bundesliga win in a row late on.

Zirkzee has played just eight minutes for the first-team since being promoted from Bayern II a month ago, but he already has two goals for Hans-Dieter Flick's side in a remarkable rise.

Joshua Zirkzee (R) and Serge Gnabry both scored as Bayern earned a 2-0 win over Wolfsburg

The 18-year-old teenage sensation Zirkzee came on as a late sub with the score at 0-0

And like he did in his midweek debut against Freiburg, he fired in to earn Bayern another win

Bayern were frustrated for most of the game at the Allianz Arena, with Robert Lewandowski starved for service in a quiet game for the Pole - as Thomas Muller and Philippe Coutinho struggled to link in midfield.

Flick's side have already fallen four points behind Bundesliga leaders RB Leipzig this season in a thrilling title race, and couldn't afford to drop more points in their pursuit.

Flick has impressed the German giants' higher-ups after rising from taking over from the sacked Nike Kovac - and provided another masterstroke against Wolfsburg.

Robert Lewandowski had a rare quiet game as Wolfsburg frustrated Bayern for the majority

Zirkzee wheeled away to celebrate his goal, looking delighted to secure another three points

The former Bayern midfielder called Zirkzee up from the bench in the 81st minute, with the scores still 0-0.

Just four minutes later, the striker powered the hosts ahead - racing to the ball before Gnabry and blasting into the corner.

The game was wrapped up in the 89th minute, as Gnabry latched on to a Lewandowki ball to fire in.

Bayern will return to action on January 19, playing Hertha Berlin as they make their charge to catch Leipzig and Monchengladbach and secure an eighth title in a row.