Jockey Harry Cobden says it was a logical choice to ride 13-8 joint favourite Cyrname in Thursday's Ladbrokes King George VI Chase even though that meant discarding his 2018 winner Clan Des Obeaux.

Virtually no-one has believed that Cobden, stable jockey to trainer Paul Nicholls, would not ride Cyrname since he ended Altior's unbeaten record over fences in the 1965 Chase at Ascot last month.

Cobden confirmed this yesterday with Nicholls saying that Sam Twiston-Davies would step in for the mount on Clan Des Obeaux.

Harry Cobden says it is logical to be ridding Cyrname in the Ladbrokes King George VI Chase

Cobden said: 'It was not really a tough decision even though Clan Des Obeaux won the race last year and gave me one of the best days in my life.

'I think the track will suit Cyrname and he will stay. I went through a fair bit of form and have ridden both horses this week but Cyrname is the highest rated horse in training and the handicapper doesn't normally get it wrong.'

Cyrname shares favouritism with Colin Tizzard-trained Lostintranslation with Clan Des Obeaux 7-2 third favourite.

That is despite riding Clan Des Obeaux to victory last year in the same race

Meanwhile yesterday's Ascot meeting survived by the skin but the heavy, almost waterlogged ground prompted trainer Emma Lavelle to pull long odds-on favourite Paisley Park out of the feature Long Walk Hurdle. The race was won by Tom George-trained The Worlds End.

When Marble Arch won the inaugural running of the Betfair Exchange Handicap Hurdle in 2001, he went on to be second to Hors La Loi III in the Champion Hurdle at Cheltenham in March and his trainer Hughie Morrison is thinking of taking same route with yesterday's nine-length winner Not So Sleepy.

Brian Hughes has taken the lead from four-time champion Richard Johnson in the jump jockeys' title race after his second four-timer of the week at Newcastle. Hughes has 100 to 98 lead over Johnson who is under the most pressure since taking up the mantle of Sir Anthony McCoy.