Laura Whitmore was confirmed as Caroline Flack's replacement on Love Island on Friday morning, following the host's arrest for assault.

And ahead of jetting off, the Irish star, 34, was feeling playful with her followers as she penned: 'Pre-Love Island diet going well', over a snap of a vast portion of fish and chips while wondering around a Christmas market.

Shortly after she tucked in to her delicious treat, she shared a snap with Hollywood star Luke Evans ahead of her latest weekly show on BBC5Live, which she will continue with while also shooting the show in South Africa.

'Diet going well': Laura Whitmore was confirmed as Caroline Flack's replacement on Love Island on Friday morning, following the host's arrest for assault

Laura revealed she will be hosting Winter Love Island in South Africa alongside presenting her weekly BBC5Live radio show.

She thanked fans for their support with a lengthy Instagram post on Saturday, after indulging in chips with curry sauce at Edinburgh Christmas Market - yet admitted the food was a break from her strict diet ahead of the show launch.

She captioned a snap of her chips: 'Pre Love island diet going well...'

The presenter held a carton of steaming hot chips smothered in curry sauce - showing off a glimpse of the fairground attractions in the background.

Joyous: Shortly after she tucked in to her delicious treat, she shared a snap with Hollywood star Luke Evans ahead of her latest weekly show on BBC5Live

Haha! On Friday Laura teased fans with a glimpse of her diet ahead of flying out to host Winter Love Island in sunny South Africa

The television personality cosied up to actor Luke for the post where she teased what fans can expect from her upcoming show. She penned: 'So the last 24hrs have been a bit crazy! Thank you for all the messages. 2020 is going to be a good year.'

And elsewhere in her Instagram post she revealed what her listeners can expect from Sunday's show.

She wrote: 'I'm also excited that I'll still be hosting my radio show on Sunday mornings on @bbc5live - I'll be there live tomorrow from 10am for a Christmas celebration talking the newsfeed with @gracewoodward @stephencomedy music from @natalierushdie and #East17.

'Thanks for all the messages': She penned: 'So the last 24hrs have been a bit crazy! Thank you for all the messages. 2020 is going to be a good year'

'We'll be 'checking in' on our mental health with @mattjohnsons and under the spotlight is actor, singer, BEAUTIFUL man @thereallukeevans.

'Guess we should also talk #loveisland See you there [love heart emoji].'

It comes after Laura was announced as the new Love Island host, taking over from Caroline, on Friday.

Caroline stepped down after she was charged with assault last Friday following a row at the north London home she shares with boyfriend Lewis Burton, 27.

Edinburgh: Elsewhere in her Instagram post she revealed what her listeners can expect from Sunday's show

No doubt Laura, who has a squeaky clean image, was a safe choice for ITV who won't want to take any risks with who they hire in Caroline's place.

On Tuesday, it was first reported that Laura met with bosses in secret to discuss the possibility of the role, following Caroline's decision to quit.

Laura is no stranger to presenting a Love Island-esque reality show for ITV, as she presented Survival Of The Fittest in January 2018.

Presenter Caroline first broke her silence on Instagram earlier in the week and wrote: 'There have been a significant number of media reports and allegations in regard to my personal life.

'While matters were not as have been reported I am committed to co-operating with the appropriate authorities and I can't comment further on these matters until the legal process is over.

'However Love Island has been my world for the last five years, it's the best show on telly. In order not to detract attention from the upcoming series I feel the best thing I can do is stand down from Series 6.

'I want to wish the incredible team working on the show a fantastic series in Cape Town.'

Caroline continued: 'And on a really personal level. I have never experienced such kindness and love in my whole life.

Drama: Caroline stepped down as the host of season six on Tuesday after her assault charge following a row with her boyfriend Lewis Burton (pictured in October)

'Not just from friends and family who are always the greatest but also from total strangers who send messages to me offering help and understanding... Please know that I see them and my boyfriend Lewis. I love you x.'

An ITV spokesperson told MailOnline shortly after her post: 'ITV has a long standing relationship with Caroline and we understand and accept her decision.

'We will remain in contact with her over the coming months about future series of Love Island.'

The former X Factor host is expected to appear on bail at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court on Monday, December 23.