Soccer AM presenter John 'Fenners' Fendley shocked Sky viewers today by telling one of the show's cameramen to 'get the flock out of here', however some of those watching thought he had used a swear word.

The comments came live on-air during the flagship sports' shows 11am slot, hours before the watershed.

Fendley, 52, was joking with co-host Jimmy Bullard and Scottish footballer Caroline Weir.

Soccer AM presenter John 'Fenners' Fendley shocked Sky viewers today by telling one of the show's cameramen to 'get the flock out of here'

The comments came live on-air during the flagship sports' shows 11am slot, hours before the watershed

Just before the show cut to an ad break, his smile suddenly vanished and he whipped round to the cameraman.

Advancing towards the crew member, the presenter said: 'Right, get the flock out of here. Get the flock out of here.'

On air Fedley had stressed he had said 'flock' as he was referring to Derby County fans whose team are known as The Rams.

Fendley had been trailing a football competition to be screened after the ad break.

Father-of-two Lawrence Matheson of Whalley Range, Manchester said: 'I am a big fan of Soccer AM and John Fendley is my favourite presenter. He's very funny and along with Jimmy Bullard, is the star of the show.

'But I was gobsmacked when he threw the F bomb in there. The show is screened at 11am and it's very popular with young football fans, boys and girls alike. My kids love watching it.

'There was no apology and he just threw the F word in there without a moments hesitation.'

'He was saying it in a jokey way, but he was saying "get the f*** out of here' and that is a pretty hostile use of language and I wouldn't want my 16-year-old daughter to think it's OK to speak to me or her friends like that in a jokey way or otherwise.'

Fendley, 52, made the bizarre outburst after joking before with co-host Jimmy Bullard and Scottish footballer Caroline Weir

'It just surprised me because you rarely here presenters swear on daytime TV and if they do you expect an apology.'

'In my opinion Sky need to have high standards as one of the country's leading broadcasters.

'When they screen the live football matches the presenters always apologise if the pitch side microphones pick up swearing from fans or coaching staff.

'But then they let one of their presenters use a word that many think is one of the most offensive in the English language. It's poor standards.

'I thought the show had broadcast delay in order to edit bad language from guests, but I must be wrong if the presenters are now freely using four letter words.'