He is best known for co-creating the acclaimed sitcom The Office alongside funny man and longtime friend Ricky Gervais, 58.

And, Stephen Merchant, 45, attributed the success of the show to the duo's 'arrogance' and unique chemistry while speaking openly about the conception of the BBC comedy.

Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Desert Island Discs, he recalled: 'There was an arrogance about us. For me I think it was just, I didn't know better, I had the arrogance of youth.

Funny man: Stephen Merchant, 45, attributed the success of the show to the duo's 'arrogance' and unique chemistry while speaking openly about the conception of the BBC comedy

'I think with Ricky he had quite happily got into a groove in life. He felt he didn't have anything to lose.'

The writer, director and comedian, recalled being 'dynamic and proactive', and admitted the older and more experienced Ricky was 'willing to walk out of a room if he didn't get his way'.

Stephen continued: 'I would go after him, "What are you doing?", and he would go, "It's all a plan, don't worry"'.

Reflecting on their 13-year age gap, he added: 'I think maybe because he was in his 30s they trusted him a bit more. He seemed like an adult.'

Snap shot: The pair created the BBC sitcom which also saw Ricky Gervais, 58, star as David Brent (R) and Stephen as Nathan Oggy aka The Oggmonster (L)

Proud as punch: The successful show depicts the everyday lives of a group of office workers at a paper company, and first aired on BBC Two in 2001 (pictured in 2003)

But, despite the show's success, Stephen acknowledged that the pair didn't invent the genre.

He said: 'It didn't seem to us like any great revolution it was just, in retrospect, there wasn't anything else like it at the time.'

The pair first met in 1997 when they worked together at a London radio station.

After quitting his job, Stephen later got in touch with Ricky when he had the opportunity to create a film, which lead to the creation of The Office.

Funny duo: Ricky (L) and Stephen (middle) have worked together on various projects since The Office (pictured with Warwick Davis at the HBO Winter 2012 TCA panel in California in 2012)

The mockumentary sitcom, which starred Ricky as David Brent, depicts the everyday lives of a group of office workers at a paper company, and first aired on BBC Two in 2001.

Stephen also made an appearance in front of the camera as the character Nathan Oggy aka The Oggmonster.

After its success, the pair followed up with another sitcom, Extras, before relishing in major Hollywood success, and partnering up again in various projects.