Former West Ham and Tottenham midfielder Martin Peters, who scored England’s second goal in the 1966 final against West Germany, has died aged 76 following a long battle against Alzheimer’s disease.

Peters, whose death was announced by West Ham, was part of the Hammers trio of captain Bobby Moore and Geoff Hurst, who scored a hat-trick in the 4-2 victory at Wembley, in Sir Alf Ramsey’s side.

Renowned as being the complete midfielder, Peters was good in the air, able to cross with either foot and possessed great movement, being able to drift into goal-scoring positions unnoticed by his markers which would later see him nicknamed ‘The Ghost’.

We are deeply saddened to hear the news of the passing of club legend Martin Peters. https://t.co/69IazGy1ZW — West Ham United (@WestHam) December 21, 2019

Peters came through the West Ham academy, having signed as an apprentice in 1959 and went on to help the east London club win the European Cup Winners’ Cup in 1965.

A statement from Peters’ family read: “It is with profound sadness that we announce that Martin passed away peacefully in his sleep at 4.00am this morning (Saturday).

“A beloved husband, dad and grandad, and a kind, gentle and private man, we are devastated by his loss but so very proud of all that he achieved and comforted by the many happy memories we shared. We will be making no further comment and kindly ask that the privacy of our family is respected at this extremely difficult time.”

“Obviously he was one of the three West Ham players who played in the ’66 World Cup winning team. We’ve lost Bobby Moore and now we ‘ve lost Martin Peters.

“I’m really sad, I knew him well, he worked for the club and I got to know him as a friend. As a West Ham man it’s really, really sad news.”

Spurs said they were “extremely saddened” to hear of Peters’ death, adding: “The thoughts of everyone at the club are with his family and friends at this difficult time.”

We’re deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Martin Peters MBE, scorer of the #ThreeLions’ second goal in the 1966 @FIFAWorldCup final, at the age of 76.



Our thoughts are with Martin’s family and friends at this difficult time. pic.twitter.com/0P2aDVRmzZ — England (@England) December 21, 2019

A tweet from the official England account read: “We’re deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Martin Peters MBE, scorer of the Three Lions’ second goal in the 1966 World Cup final, at the age of 76. Our thoughts are with Martin’s family and friends at this difficult time.”