Prime Minister Scott Morrison has seen first hand the devastating bushfire damage that wiped out towns while he enjoyed a relaxing family holiday in Hawaii.

A day after returning from his shortened trip, the Mr Morrison was back in the skies on Monday in an Army helicopter.

He was given an aerial tour of fire-ravaged bushland where the Gospers Mountain megafire destroyed dozens of buildings in the towns of Bilpin, Dargan and Clarence in the Blue Mountains west of Sydney on Saturday night.

He looked solemn as he took in the vast devastation caused while he and his wife relaxed at their hotel.

The Prime Minister had an aerial view of the bushfire damage in the Blue Mountains

Residents were forced to flee their homes as they described as a 'fireball' tore through the Blue Mountains.

Mr Morrison touched down in Mudgee to hear stories from the frontline from NSW Rural Fire Service volunteers.

He also met with evacuated residents who still don't know if they have a house to go home to as they wait for the okay to return.

Firefighters and evacuated residents are divided over whether the prime minister should have flown to Hawaii with his family amid the bushfires catastrophe.

RFS volunteer Peter Selby described Monday's visit as a publicity stunt.

'He really need it (the holiday) because he's going to need all the energy for next year,' one couple told Seven News after meeting the Prime Minister.

The Prime Minister pictured posing for photos on holidays in Hawaii last Thursday while fires destroyed homes in the NSW Southern Highland, where two firefighters lost their lives

Ilford couple John and Nova Cunningham and their three children have been in Mudgee since Saturday night.

'There was a fireball that came through, it was this huge roar and that's when it just hit everybody and we had to leave,' Ms Cunningham said.

'Our house is okay we think and we're hoping to hear an update today if we can return, but the wind has changed the fire's direction so we're definitely not in the clear yet.'

Mr Cunningham said he thought it was 'good' Mr Morrison had visited but felt he shouldn't have gone on holiday last week.

'I believe everyone is entitled to a holiday, but I think as the voice of the people he probably should have stayed,' Mr Cunningham said.

'I think it's a good thing he made the time to come out though.'

The Prime Minister looked solemn as he surveyed the aftermath from Saturday night's Gospers Mountain megafire

Diana and Keith Rutter were pleased Mr Morrison visited the evacuation centre but didn't think he should have cut his holiday on Hawaii short to do so.

'He shouldn't have come back from holiday early, because he's going to be needed so much more in the new year,' Ms Rutter said.

'And what difference does it make, okay it's good for moral but when he came back he would have been refreshed because he's going to have a hard time when this is over and done with, there's so much damage to NSW.'

Mr Rutter said the fire came within a foot of his back door on Saturday, but the blaze has since changed direction and is headed back toward his home.

'So far were okay, some of my animals got a bit singed, but now the worry is the fire is coming back,' he said.

Evacuated residents were divided over whether the Prime Minister should have gone to Hawaii

At least 100 buildings were destroyed across New South Wales on Saturday alone, as the total of homes wrecked nears 1,000 for the season so far.

While the total number of homes lost is yet to be confirmed partly due to the ever-changing conditions, the towns of Balmoral in the Southern Highlands and Dargan north of the Blue Mountains have been all but wiped out.

At least 17 houses were lost in Dargan, a town which has a population of less than 100.

NSW RFS Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons warned more fires may flare up later in the week with Sydney forecast to soar past temperatures in the mid 30s next Saturday.

The Prime Minister touched down in Mudgee where he met with evacuated residents

Mr Fitzsimmons said firefighters would take advantage of better conditions this week, which should include temperatures in the mid-20s, higher humidity and easterly winds.

The biggest focus will be on preparing vulnerable Blue Mountains communities ahead of hotter and more challenging conditions returning next weekend.

The Princes Highway is closed between South Nowra and Lake Conjola on the NSW south coast after the Comberton fire crossed to the other side of the highway.

The fire is currently at watch and act level, as is the Grose Valley fire still burning in the Blue Mountains.

Another 10 fires across NSW are at advice level.