Rowdy office partygoers took to the streets for last weekend before Christmas

A North Yorkshire police force have hit out at abusive behaviour by partygoers after officers were spat at and punched on 'black eye Friday'

A North Yorkshire police force have hit out at abusive behaviour by partygoers after officers were spat at and punched on 'black eye Friday'.

Cleveland Police received 315 emergency calls for service overnight, on one of the busiest days of the year as thousands of office workers took to the streets across the country for their work parties.

But along with 31 people being arrested, the force reported that four of their officers being assaulted.

It is believed that officers responding to calls were elbowed, repeatedly punched and spat at by members of the public in the North East suburb, which includes Redcar and parts of Middlesbrough.

Cleveland Police posted a photo of one of their officers nursing a black eye, saying: 'Four officers assaulted, 31 people arrested and over 300 emergency calls received on Black Friday ... The Force will not tolerate any form of abuse towards our officers!'

Chief Superintendent Emily Harrison said: 'The Force responded to a huge demand yesterday into the early hours of this morning, with over half the calls to our control room needing an immediate emergency response.

'In addition to the high level of demand, four of our officers were assaulted whilst they were working tirelessly looking after our communities whilst most people were out enjoying the festive period.

'One of our officers was repeatedly punched in the face causing swelling to his face and eye. This level of abuse towards our officers is disgusting and the Force will not tolerate it under any circumstances.

'Each of our officers put their life on the line to protect people living in our communities, they work around the clock every day of the year, including bank holidays, Christmas, and all the holidays where people like to be out celebrating.

'They do not deserve to treated like this, they deserve the utmost respect when carrying out their duties. Anyone who abuses or assaults our officers will face the full force of the law.

Dubbed 'Black Eye Friday' or 'Mad Friday', the last Friday before Christmas is typically when workers go out to celebrate the start of their holidays with colleagues. Pictured: Police struggled to contain one reveller who became aggressive during a disturbance in Cardiff City Centre last night

'I would like to thank all of our officers and staff for their hard work on Black Friday, they went above and beyond to keep everyone safe which has resulted in 31 people being locked up.'

Dubbed 'Black Eye Friday' or 'Mad Friday', the last Friday before Christmas is typically when workers go out to celebrate the start of their holidays with colleagues, safe in the knowledge that they have the entire weekend in which to recover.

But as the alcohol flowed late in the night, revellers were seen in not-so-festive bust-ups on streets across the country as police were forced to restrain troublemakers.