Advertisement

The French president's wife Brigitte Macron appeared in high spirits as she met with staff and patients at a mother and child hospital on the second day of her official visit along the Ivory Coast with her husband.

The schoolteacher, 66, was all smiles as she met with children at the Mere-Enfant (mother and child) hospital in Bingerville and was greeted by a group of traditional chiefs on December 21.

Brigitte's appearance comes after she and her husband Emmanuel Macron arrived in West African country to celebrate Christmas with French troops and hold talks with the President of the Ivory Coast Alassane Ouattara.

The mother-of-three appeared calm and relaxed as she spoke with young patients at the hospital and offered them festive gifts.

Brigitte Macron, 66, was all smiles as she met with chiefs dressed in traditional clothing on the second day of her official visit in the Ivory Coast, West Africa

The French president's wife met with children at the Mere-Enfant (mother and child) hospital in Bingerville and offered gifts

The mother-of-three, who was joined by the spoke with wife of the Ivory Coast's president Dominique Ouattara (left), spoke with patients receiving treatment at the hospital

Sporting a vibrant orange dress that featured silver buttons along the side and a pair of black heels, the politician's wife was also joined by the wife of the Ivory Coast's president Dominique Ouattara during her visit of the mother and child hospital.

Her visit comes a day after the French leader Emmanuel Macron was seen enjoying a wholesome Christmas dinner with French troops from the Foreign Legion 2e REP regiment at the Port-Bouet military camp near Abidjan.

Macron donned a white shirt and a black tie as he spoke with soldiers stationed on the African continent and celebrated an early Christmas with them.

Earlier today, the French president announced that France had killed 33 militants during an operation in Mali on Saturday using attack helicopters, ground troops and a drone near the border with Mauritania in a speech to the French community in Ivory Coast's main city of Abidjan.

He later took to Twitter to say that he was 'proud of our soldiers who protect us.'

The mother-of-three, who sported a vibrant orange dress and a pair of smart black heels, spoke with doctors at the mother and child hospital

Brigitte appeared in high spirits as she offered children receiving treatment at the Ivory Coast hospital Christmas presents

The mother played with the children and spoke with staff as she continued her visit of the West African nation today

The attack comes a month after 13 French soldiers lost their lives in a helicopter crash during an operation against Islamic groups in Mali.

France has some 4,500 military personnel in West and Central Africa, much of which was ruled by France during colonialism, and also led a military operation in 2013 to dislodge Islamic extremists from power in several major towns across Mali's north.

In the ensuing years the militants have regrouped and pushed further into central Mali, where Saturday morning's operation was carried out.

The French leader Emmanuel Macron was seen enjoying a Christmas dinner with French troops at the Port-Bouet military camp near Abidjan

The French leader appeared in high spirits as he spoke with soldiers stationed on the African continent and celebrated an early Christmas with them