She won the 2019 series of I'm A Celebrity earlier this month.

And Jacqueline Jossa was back to business on Saturday as she transformed into the Grinch as a festive surprise for her pupils at her Jac Jossa Academy School of Performing Arts.

Making the most of the theatrical makeover, the EastEnders star, 27, also used the opportunity to take a selfie in character with her husband Dan Osborne.

Wow! Jacqueline Jossa gave students at her drama school a festive surprise on Saturday, as she transformed into the famous character The Grinch in a hilarious post

Jacqueline looked unrecognisable as she donned a green wig, huge belly and Santa costume to become the famous children's book character.

Jacqueline's face was painted green and lines were added in to form the famous face.

The actress took to her Instagram Stories to show off her best impression of the Grinch, quoting the film and replicating Jim Carey's famous facial movements from How the Grinch Stole Christmas in 2000.

By the end of her performance even Jacqueline herself was laughing, despite being in the room alone as she stayed in character and joked: 'I'm a psycho!'

In character: The former EastEnders star looked unrecognisable as she donned a green wig, huge belly and Santa costume to become the famous children's book character

Funny: Jacqueline also shared a cute selfie alongside her husband Dan Osborne after donning her Grinch-inspired makeup

Jacqueline, who appeared to be in a dressing room, captioned her first story: 'Current situation.'

As soon as she was in costume she stayed in character and added: 'The things you sign up for. Got to keep the kids entertained you see.'

She then played around on her office chair and shook her fake belly while singing.

Fun and games: The actress took to Instagram to show off her best impression of the Grinch, quoting the film and replicating Jim Carey's famous facial movements from the 2000 film

Jacqueline then sang: 'Where are you Christmas, do you remember?'

After quoting: '6 o'clock, dinner with me, I can't cancel that again. Unless I move the self-loathing to 9? That's it I'm not going,' she started giggling.

It came after the star posted a picture of herself lying on her couch in Grinch pyjamas.

She captioned the snap: 'After the busiest craziest few weeks of my life, this is where you will find me all of CHRISTMAS. (After I finish my Xmas shopping that I am super late with.. been busy in the jungle) GRINCH IS LIFE!! Merry Xmas my lovers!!!!'

Impressions: By the end of her performance even Jacqueline herself was laughing, despite being in the room alone as she stayed in character and joked: 'I'm a psycho!'

It comes after the brand founder of In The Style Adam Frisby teased a potential collaboration with Jacqueline in an Instagram snap this week.

The CEO uploaded a telling post of himself posing alongside Jacqueline, prompting speculation she could be the latest celebrity to sign with the band.

In the snap, Jacqueline cut a chic figure while posing alongside Adam in an on-trend camel coat and boots, as he wrapped his arm around her.

Both wore huge smiles on their faces, prompting fans to speculate that Jacqueline could be bringing out a collection with In The Style very soon.

Role: As soon as she was in costume she stayed in character and added: 'The things you sign up for. Got to keep the kids entertained you see'

One fan commented: 'I spy a collab,' while another wrote: 'Next new range coming.'

Nothing has officially been announced as of yet and Adam made sure to keep fans guessing as he simply teased alongside his photo: 'Little catch up with the queen today.'

If Jacqueline does partner with the brand, she'll be following in the footsteps of a number of celebs who already have collections with In The Style, including Charlotte Crosby, Billie Faiers and former Love Island winner Dani Dyer.

It seems she too is keeping quiet on such rumours and simply added two love hearts alongside Adam's picture, which she shared to her own Instagram story.

Busy bee: She then played around on her office chair and shook her fake belly while singing

Jacqueline, however, did tease that she has plenty to look forward to, without going into specifics, while recently sharing a glamorous selfie with fans.

Alongside a snap of her smiling, she cryptically wrote: 'Good things pending...'

She was crowned the new Queen of the Jungle during this year's series of I'm A Celebrity.

Jacqueline beat the likes of Coronation Street's Andrew Whyment and Capital FM's Roman Kemp to be crowned the show's winner, after becoming a favourite with viewers throughout the series.

New collaboration on the way? It comes after In The Style founder Adam Frisby teased the brand may have snapped up Jacqueline for a new collection as they posted together

While in the jungle, Jacqueline's marriage to former TOWIE star Dan Osborne came under scrutiny, as he was hit by multiple cheating claims while she was filming for the series.

Dan was forced to readdress allegations he had cheated on Jacqueline with Love Island star Gabby Allen, as Jacqueline joined Gabby's ex-boyfriend Myles Stephenson in camp.

Dan also found himself subjected to claims he'd had a threesome with his Celebrity Big Brother co-stars Chloe Ayling and Natalie Nunn - allegations he strongly denies.

In demand: Jacqueline has found herself in demand after winning I'm A Celebrity this month (pictured after winning)

In light of the speculation, Dan issued a public apology to his wife on Instagram, admitting that he has 'made mistakes that almost cost me my family', while assuring fans he and Jacqueline are now 'stronger than ever'.

It read: 'So after weeks, months and years of constant articles & rumours, some true, some very untrue I want to publicly say I know I have made mistakes.

'We all do as humans, but I've made some that have almost cost me my family.

'I have seriously learned from these massively, so I want to publicly apologise to my beautiful wife and my family for the mistakes I've made.

Moving on: Jacqueline has drawn a line under the scrutiny her marriage to former TOWIE star Dan Osborne (pictured above) came under while she was in the jungle

'I am the luckiest man in the world to have what I have with Jacqueline and my three incredible children and I will spend the rest of my life being the best husband and dad that I can be.

'Jac, myself and our families are excited for the future, one filled with love and happiness together. We truly appreciate everyone that has supported us as a couple, we are ending this year stronger than ever.'

Jacqueline, meanwhile, addressed her relationship with Dan during an interview on ITV's Lorraine and insisted the couple are 'fine'.

She said: 'The thing is, it’s really funny because we've been going through it for two years - this isn’t new for me.

'It got brought up again because of Myles but at the same time, I was glad it made me think about it, I didn't have a choice but to think about it... but it helped me.

'I want to hit the restart button, it’s been two years of me giving him hell, he knows he’s done wrong, there's lots of stuff that’s not true that I can’t talk about for legal reasons, but we're OK.'

Jacqueline and Dan married in July 2017 and have two children together, Ella, four and Mia, 17-months.