Few people will have enjoyed this match more than Sean Dyche. The Burnley manager was beaming after this ugly win in the rain, sealed by the only shot on target.

Substitute Jay Rodriguez won it with a late header to move Burnley into the top half of the table.

‘I’m pleased with the result but we can certainly perform better,’ admitted Dyche. ‘It was a very hard game in the sense that the conditions were awful.

Jay Rodriguez scored in the 89th minute to hand Burnley victory against Bournemouth

The Burnley substitute converted Ashley Westwood's cross to seal a win for the visitors

The biggest incident of the first half saw Simon Francis go down with a nasty head injury

MATCH FACTS AND LEAGUE TABLE Bournemouth (4-5-1): Ramsdale; Stacey, Francis, Mepham, Rico; Billing (Solanke 86'), Cook (Wilson 45'), Gosling, Lerma, Fraser; King Substitutes not used: Boruc, Surman, Stanislas, Simpson, Kilkenny Bookings: Rico, Francis Manager: Eddie Howe Burnley (4-4-2): Pope; Bardsley, Tarkowski, Mee, Taylor; Hendrick (Lennon 65'), Westwood, Cork, McNeil (Brady 82'); Barnes (Rodriguez 75'), Wood Substitutes not used: Drinkwater, Hart, Pieters, Long Goals: Rodriguez (89') Bookings: Westwood, Barnes, McNeil, Hendrick Manager: Sean Dyche Referee: Martin Atkinson Attendance: 10,020 Season at a glance Live tables

Fixtures

Scores Premier League

Premier League

Championship

League One

League Two

Scottish Premiership

Scottish Div 1

Scottish Div 2

Scottish Div 3

Ligue 1

Serie A

La Liga

Bundesliga





‘The game wasn’t much better. We expect more from a performance than we got today but we found a way.’

Burnley goalkeeper Nick Pope was completely untroubled all match and it took until the 89th minute for either side to muster an effort on target.

Bournemouth’s keeper Aaron Ramsdale had been impeccable against the visitors’ aerial assault but in the last minute Ashley Westwood’s cross was deftly dealt with by Rodriguez.

Bournemouth captain Francis received the blow after clashing with Burnley's Ashley Barnes

Ryan Fraser was then clattered by James Tarkowski as the fierce challenges continued

But aside from those incidents Sean Dyche (left) and Eddie Howe saw their sides create little

Howe brought on Callum Wilson at half to try and give Bournemouth some attacking impetus

This first shot on target was the longest wait for a shot on target in a Premier League game since May, 2009 (90 minutes, Bolton v Sunderland). And the total of five shots in the match is the lowest tally of attempts in a Premier League game since 2003-04, when this data was first recorded.

Dyche said: ‘I’m delighted for Jay. The lads were absolutely buzzing for him and gave him a massive cheer.’

But there was little to cheer for Eddie Howe. After last week’s win at Chelsea, all the buoyancy was lost from the Bournemouth boss who now has a relegation fight on his hands.

But the scrappy affair in unfavourable weather conditions continued despite his introduction

Martin Atkinson booked six players including Dwight McNeil as both sides struggled to play

But Rodriguez came up with the goods with a minute to go to see Burnley emerge victorious

‘My biggest disappointment is how we played with the ball, especially in the first half,’ he said. ‘We weren’t fluid, not enough risks were taken and we didn’t create anywhere near enough.’

Asked if his side played into the Burnley’s hands, he added: ‘They are very good at what they do. They’re very strong.’

Before Rodriguez’s winner, the only intrigue surrounded the contentious foul count and when the heavens would open.

Referee Martin Atkinson took a relaxed approach from the off. Ashley Barnes’ high boot on Bournemouth’s Simon Francis went unpunished despite him emerging from the turf with a bandage around his head.

And after Philip Billing grappled with Barnes, seemingly catching the striker with a swinging arm, there was no punishment given either.