When the final whistle blew, Jack Grealish slumped to the ground inside the Southampton penalty area after a game that had left Aston Villa on the canvas.

Danny Ings’ double, either side of Jack Stephens’ header, lifted Saints out of the relegation zone and ensured their opponents will be in the bottom three at Christmas. Their squad looks good enough to climb the table while for Villa, the sight of their captain lying flat on his back at full-time was a perfect summary of their predicament, and he stayed there for more than a minute until Douglas Luiz went to console him.

Villa have now suffered four defeats in a row and they were booed off by the fans that remained; many of them had left long before the end.

Danny Ings continued his fine goalscoring form with the opening goal of the game on 21 mins

Jack Stephens then silenced Villa Park for a second time as he made it 2-0 after half an hour

Ings' emphatic finish - his 13th in all competitions - sealed a huge victory for the Saints

Jack Grealish scored a late consolation for Villa but they weren't able to muster a comeback

MATCH FACTS AND LIVE TABLE: Aston Villa (4-3-3): Heaton 6.5; Guilbert 4.5, Engels 4.5, Hause 4.5, Targett 6; McGinn (Nakamba 8, 5) Douglas Luiz 5, Hourihane 5.5 (Kodjia 56, 6); El Ghazi 5.5 (Trezeguet 69, 6), Wesley 5, Grealish 6.5. Subs not used: Nyland, Lansbury, Konsa, Elmohamady. Scorers: Grealish (75) Booked: El Ghazi, Kodjia Manager: Dean Smith 6 Southampton (4-4-2): McCarthy 7; Cedric 7, Stephens 7.5, Bednarek 7, Bertrand 7; Armstrong 7 (Romeu 76) Ward-Prowse 7.5, Hojbjerg 7, Redmond 8; Ings 7.5 (Adams 87), Long 7.5 (Obafemi 82). Subs not used: Gunn, Yoshida, Vestergaard, Boufal. Scorers: Ings (21 & 51), Stephens (31) Booked: Ward-Prowse Manager: Ralph Hasenhuttl 6 Referee: Craig Pawson 5 Attendance: 41,834 Season at a glance Live tables

Fixtures

Scores Premier League

Premier League

Championship

League One

League Two

Scottish Premiership

Scottish Div 1

Scottish Div 2

Scottish Div 3

Ligue 1

Serie A

La Liga

Bundesliga





This was the first of three games for Villa against rivals for survival. They face Norwich here on Boxing Day before travelling to Watford on December 28, but unless they improve dramatically from this, it is hard to envisage a sharp upturn in form. They are likely to be without John McGinn, who was injured after eight minutes, while there is little creative talent beyond the Scot and Grealish, who volleyed a brilliant consolation in the 75th minute.

The result eased the pressure on Saints manager Ralph Hasenhuttl while his Villa counterpart, Dean Smith, has now watched his side pick up one point from five matches since the club announced on November that he had signed an improved contract until 2023.

That deal indicated faith in Smith but incredibly wealthy investors, like Villa owners Nassef Sawiris and Wes Edens, do not pour millions into a Premier League club to be rewarded with relegation.

Ings and Shane Long were a constant menace for Southampton throughout the 90 minutes

Villa were dealt an early blow when John McGinn landed awkwardly and hobbled off the pitch

Villa striker Wesley was anonymous throughout and missed a good first half chance

Ings and Shane Long were a constant menace, and the comparison between their display, and yet another clumsy showing from £22m forward Wesley, will be uncomfortable for the Villa hierarchy.

Hasenhuttl said: ‘We knew if we played calm and [went] behind the last line of defence there would be space for us. We didn’t do it perfectly in the second half like in the first half.’

The home side suffered an early blow when McGinn, one of their most important players, landed awkwardly after challenging for the ball with Cedric Soares.

Ings tapped home from close range after Nathan Redmond's shot was saved by Tom Heaton

Stephens rose highest to head home James Ward-Prowse's perfect in-swinging delivery

The Scotland midfielder was in obvious pain and after lengthy treatment, he was helped down the tunnel by two members of Villa’s coaching staff, unable to place any weight on his left ankle.

Neither side had started particularly well but Villa’s lack of bite in front of goal was laid bare when they failed to make the most of two promising early moments, when Anwar El Ghazi and Wesley wasted chances.

Villa were punished quickly. Shane Long exposed Bjorn Engels’ lack of pace when he raced onto a ball over the top from Nathan Redmond and although Tom Heaton saved his shot, Ings was in the perfect spot to tap in the loose ball.

The goal drained Villa of confidence and Southampton – who had not won away in the league since September 14 – began to enjoy themselves.

‘We can catastrophise goals too quickly,’ said Smith. ‘After the I saw shoulders and heads go a little bit, with the exception of Jack and Douglas Luiz.

Grealish cut an irritable figure as he tried and failed to revive a disappointing Villa side

Ings fired into the roof of the net after Marvelous Nakamba had steered the ball into his path

Grealish scored a brilliant chest and volley late on but it was too little too late for Villa

‘The players have to take responsibility and I do as well,’ said Smith. ‘Whether they like it or not, they are Premier League players and I am a Premier League manager. We have to be more responsible in our performances.’

As Smith had spotted, the Villa players became increasingly agitated after the opener – but in the 31st minute, their afternoon got worse.

James Ward-Prowse sent over the corner from the left and Stephens moved ahead of El Ghazi to meet it, sending his header down past Heaton into the bottom corner.

The home side tried to fight back but, apart from Frederic Guilbert’s rising drive that was pushed over, never troubled Alex McCarthy, and there were sustained boos when the whistle blew for half-time.

Ings was withdrawn late on and given a rousing reception from the travelling Saints fans

To highlight the lack of resources in Smith’s squad, no changes were made at half-time despite their awful performance before the break. It was the visitors – looking composed and confident – who went further ahead, thanks to more appalling defending.

When the excellent Redmond crossed from the left, Marvelous Nakamba – who had replaced McGinn – could only steer the ball into the path of Ings, who fired past Heaton into the roof of the net.

Smith cut a helpless figure on the touchline, frequently putting his head into his hands as his team made mistakes.

Grealish briefly improved spirits with an outstanding chest and volley after a poorly-cleared corner, while there was still time for Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg to miss a sitter after Heaton had parried Ings’ hat-trick attempt.