Police have launched a double murder investigation after two men were stabbed to death only three miles apart.

Officers were first called to reports of a fight involving a number of men at Courtland Avenue, Barnet at 8.11pm on Thursday.

Police arriving at the scene did not find any victims or suspect, however, 16 minutes later officers were alerted by the London Ambulance Service after they began treating a man with stab wounds a short distance from the scene of the first emergency call.

The death of a man whose body was found by the side of a country lane in rural Hertfordshire is being linked to a fatal stabbing in north London. (Pictured: Hogg lane, Hertfordshire, where the body was found)

It is being linked to the body of a man in his 30s, that was found in a car at Scratchwood Park, Barnet. It is believed he was initially stabbed in Mill Hill

Police have linked two murders after a 31-year-old man and a 35-year-old man, both from Eastern Europe, were found stabbed to death less than five miles apart on Thursday and Friday

Officers searching the second scene on Barnet by-pass, near Scratchwood Park discovered a 30-year-old man left for dead in the boot of a car.

A 31-year-old man found at the scene was later arrested by police on suspicion of murder.

The following day, the body of a 35-year-old man was found in bushes at Hogg Lane, Elstree. He had also suffered several stab wounds.

Hertfordshire Police discovered the body at 3.28pm on Friday. This murder has been linked by detectives to the earlier stabbing in Barnet.

According to Scotland Yard, a post-mortem on the second victim is being carried out to determine the time of death to discover whether this man was murdered before or after the victim in Barnet.

Officers are trying to determine whether the murders are linked to organised crime.

According to Scotland Yard, Detective Chief Inspector Simon Stancombe of the Met's Specialist Crime Command is leading both investigations.

He said: 'Our investigation is in its very early stages and at this time we are pursuing a number of leads to try to establish exactly what chain of events has led to two men losing their lives.

'Forensics examination continues and we are being closely supported by our colleagues at Hertfordshire Constabulary to understand the chronology of events.

'At these very early stages, we believe both the deceased men are Eastern European males. While we retain an open mind as to a motive, we cannot rule out whether there might be a potential organised criminal element. We also believe that the two victims might have been known to each other.

The body was found next to a private airfield, Elstree Aerodrome, and a large reservoir. Pictured above are detectives at the scene

It is about a ten minute drive from Scratchwood park to Hogg lane in Hertfordshire. (Pictured: Officers at the scene in Hertfordshire)

Police put a road closure in place on Hogg lane, Hertfordshire, as they carried out their investigation

'I am asking those residents who live in the vicinity of the crime scenes in Barnet and Elstree to think very carefully about anything suspicious you may have seen over the last few days, and to make contact with us immediately.

'I would also like to reassure them that events of this nature are very rare, however if they have any concerns to contact their local neighbourhood officers.

'Police are keen to hear from anyone who may have information around suspicious vehicles being driven erratically in the Barnet/ Elstree areas, or any suspicious activities they may have noticed.'

DCI Stancombe said: 'The scenes at Scratchwood Park and Hogg Lane are around five miles apart, so only a relatively short distance. It could be that you may have caught something via dashcam footage that could prove massively important.

'The slightest fragment of information could prove crucial, so even if it may seem insignificant, please call the incident room or make use of anonymous methods such as the independent charity Crimestoppers.

'What matters most is that you make the call.'

It has been linked to a fatal stabbing in Barnet (pictured). A man was found dead in his car with stab wounds in Scratchwood Park, Barnet

A forensic officer pictured using a search light as they investigate evidence along Courtland Avenue in relation to the stabbing

A police car blocks the entrance to Scratchwood park, Barnet, where a body was found inside a car on Thursday