As the Premier League season ticks towards halfway, the whispers of a European challenge out of south Yorkshire are becoming roars.

This win, as comfortable a 1-0 as a team can wish for on the road in the Premier League, sent Sheffield United fifth in the top flight, one point behind the Champions League places.

Many an upstart have found themselves here before, heading into Christmas with dreams of continental football in the new year before wilting when safe of relegation, but performances like these reinforce the view that Chris Wilder is building a serious contender.

Sheffield United have a top six spot for Christmas as Oliver McBurnie scored to beat Brighton

The Blades' record-signing blasted in in the first-half, later earning them three wins in a row

MATCH FACTS AND RATINGS BRIGHTON (4-2-3-1): Ryan 6; Montoya 5.5 (Bissouma 56min, 6), Webster 4.5, Dunk 6, Burn 6; Stephens 5, Propper 5.5; Mooy 6.5, Gross 5 (Murray 46, 6), Maupay 6, Trossard 5 (Connolly 46, 6.5) Subs not used: Button, Alzate, Bernardo, Duffy Bookings: None Scorers: None Manager: Graham Potter 5.5 SHEFF UTD (3-5-2): Henderson 6; Basham 6.5, Egan 7, O’Connell 7; Baldock 7, Lundstram 7, Norwood 7 (Besic 82), Freeman 6.5 (Osborn 53, 6), Stevens 7; McBurnie 7 (Mousset 63, 6), McGoldrick 8 Subs not used: Verrips, Jagielka, Robinson, Sharp Bookings: Basham, Stevens, McGoldrick Scorers: McBurnie 23 Manager: Chris Wilder 7.5 Man of the Match: David McGoldrick Referee: Robert Jones 8 Attendance: 30,505

An 18th straight away league game without defeat - in the process matching Burnley’s 72-year record for a promoted side of nine unbeaten on the road to start a top-flight season - puts them on 28 points from 18 games, three more than Wolves managed by this stage last season when they short-shifted from the Championship to seventh in the Premier League.

‘It is ludicrous,’ said Wilder when asked to consider his side as European contenders. ‘Because the season ain’t over at 18 games.

‘But it’s about the accumulation of points, moving on to the next game and can we keep it going. It’s very good for a team that was written off to be down by Christmas.’

Mat Ryan was relieved after his spill allowed Jack O'Connell to score, before VAR ruled it out

Although there was only one goal in it, the Blades had a further two chalked off by the video assistant, and David McGoldrick will be haunted by the chance he missed to end his Premier League goal drought.

United were never daunted, never hassled, never truly threatened by Brighton - themselves an impressive outfit under Graham Potter but schooled by the team two years behind them in top-flight experience.

It said much that by the end of the first half, the hosts were so stifled by the relentless pressing of Wilder’s 3-5-2 that they were forced to abandon their short passing style in favour of clearing it long in hope and prayer.

Already one down by this stage, it did not raise the home support’s mood to see 5ft 8in Neal Maupay as the target of those long balls - lost causes against the visitors’ towering centre-back trio.

The defender celebrated with his team-mates but the goal was ruled-out for offside

The only goal, from Oli McBurnie on 23 minutes, showed the gap between the two sides’ confidence. Dean Henderson sent a long pass forward from the Sheffield penalty area, Brighton centre back Adam Webster hesitated in his clearance and McBurnie seized on the opportunity.

The Scot, a £20million record signing in the summer and a former student of Potter at Swansea, charged down Webster’s tame header and raced through on goal before firing in off the right-hand post.

Before McBurnie’s goal each side had had an effort ruled out by VAR, in what quickly became a stern first examination for referee Robert Jones, making his debut at the Premier League level.

The Blades thought they were in front after just eight minutes when Luke Freeman’s corner looped high above Brighton goalkeeper Mat Ryan, who swung a punch and came up empty. John Egan bundled in, but a brief check showed he had done so with his hand.

Graham Potter's men are now without a win in three games, but came alive late-on in the game

‘It’s not football anymore,’ came the response from the visiting support to the technology and while there was a smattering of agreement from the hosts, Egan’s handball was clear, obvious and - it must be said - not football either.

Brighton had their own gripes soon afterwards when Maupay thought he had found the net. But Martin Montoya, who had reacted first to Henderson’s parry from an Aaron Mooy drive, was ruled offside when crossing for the forward to turn in.

The game should have been long past Brighton’s reach just after half-time, when Webster was again caught out by a long ball which McGoldrick beat him to. The forward rounded Ryan and had an empty net to offer him a first top-flight goal in his 14th game, but took the ball too wide and his effort went the wrong side of the post.

United's David McGoldrick missed a sitter after rounding Ryan, as the Blades dominated

Shortly afterwards the video referee made its third intervention of the afternoon, with the visitors having their second goal of the day struck off. Ryan spilled John Egan’s flicked header from a free-kick and the onrushing Jack O’Connell tucked in, but the centre back had moved too soon and the review confirmed the offside.

‘Credit to Sheffield United, they did what they did well and did it better than us,’ said Potter. ‘We huffed and puffed and tried but we weren’t good enough, it’s as simple as that.

‘It didn’t take very long - about 20 minutes - before their pressure came. They attack direct, down the sides and can overload you so it’s not quite as controlled as you’d like it to be.’

For Wilder and his team, everything is controlled right now - even his optimism. But on the basis of this start to the season, it will not be long before Sheffield United as European contenders is anything but ludicrous.