Britney Spears fans have rallied around the artist this year with the #FreeBritney movement, which has been chalked up to a conspiracy theory by many.

But Britney's dad Jamie didn't take the movement so lightly, having gone after the blogger behind it in court.

Jamie has won an injunction against Absolute Britney blogger Anthony Elia, which requires him to stop negatively portraying Britney's conservatorship, according to TMZ.

Hitting back: Britney Spears' dad Jamie has won an injunction against Absolute Britney blogger Anthony Elia, which requires him to stop negatively portraying Britney's conservatorship

Jamie's lawyer Larry Stein argued that Elia's claims were defamation, reports the website.

The blog also apparently sparked several death threats against those involved in the conservatorship, which law enforcement took seriously.

In case you aren't up to date on all things Britney, the #FreeBritney movement started back in April after she was admitted to a wellness facility.

Some fans questioned the circumstances of her stay, suggesting she was being held against her will.

Talking trash: According to TMZ, Jamie's lawyer Larry Stein argued that Elia's claims were defamation

Bold claims: Elia's role in the #FreeBritney movement included claims that Jamie manipulated Britney's social media accounts to make it appear that she needed help

In control: The alleged motive behind this treatment was for Jamie to maintain his role as conservator for Britney's affairs and estate

But a source close to Britney told People: 'She recognized she needed to focus on her own health and sought treatment. No one forced her to go.'

Still, the speculation resulted in an army of fans protesting outside West Hollywood City Hall to demand her release.

Elia's role in the movement included claims that Jamie manipulated Britney's social media accounts to make it appear that she needed help.

He claimed that Jamie would delete the positive comments on her posts in order to highlight the negative comments and make it appear she was doing worse than she was.

The alleged motive behind this treatment was for Jamie to maintain his role as conservator for Britney's affairs and estate.

He's remained her conservator since 2008, allowing him to draw a salary from her fortune, as well as controlling her financial decisions.