You did not need VAR to check the legitimacy of this goal, more the identity of the scorer - had Miguel Almiron really just found the back of the net?

The Paraguayan was in danger of going the entirety of 2019 without a goal and, given he cost £21million in January, that would have been a source of embarrassment, no matter how hard Steve Bruce has tried to celebrate his work-rate.

But then, as his 27th appearance ticked towards another scoreless expiry, he had his chance. It helped that he did not have to think about it, for given the luxury of time Almiron has looked weighed down by his options and has, invariably, chosen the wrong one.

Miguel Almiron broke his Newcastle duck to hand his side a victory over Crystal Palace

In a close contest, Almiron's late strike sent St James' Park into jubilation on Saturday

The Paraguayan international latched onto a knockdown to win the game for Newcastle United

Newcastle boss Steve Bruce was delighted to see the 25-year-old get on the score sheet

MATCH FACTS AND LEAGUE TABLE Newcastle (3-5-2) : Dubravka 8; Schar 6.5, Fernandez 6.5, Lejeune 7; Manquillo 7.5, Hayden 5.5 (S Longstaff 64, 6.5), Shelvey 6.5, Almiron 7.5, Dummett 6.5 (Yedlin 90); Joelinton 5 (Gayle 77), Carroll 7. Subs not used: Atsu, Darlow, Krafth, M Longstaff Booked: Almiron, Schar Goals: Almiron (83) Manager: Steve Bruce Crystal Palace (4-3-3): Guaita 6.5; Kelly 6, Tomkins 6.5, Kouyate 6, Van Aanholt 6; McCarthy 6, Milivojevic 6.5, McArthur 6 (Meyer 80); Zaha 6.5, Benteke 6, Ayew 6. Subs not used: Daly, Hennessey, Pierrick, Riedewald, Wickham, Woods Booked: None Goals: None Manager: Roy Hodgson MOTM: Dubravka Referee: Simon Hooper 7 Attendance: 45,453 Season at a glance Live tables

Fixtures

Scores Premier League

Premier League

Championship

League One

League Two

Scottish Premiership

Scottish Div 1

Scottish Div 2

Scottish Div 3

Ligue 1

Serie A

La Liga

Bundesliga





Not here. There was one avenue to pursue and that was blast it as hard as he could towards goal from 10 yards. The outcome? A goal. At last.

He celebrated by tossing his shirt in the air and sprinting into the arms of a ball-boy, as is in vogue. There was no message on Almiron’s black vest, perhaps it has faded in the past 11 months.

But actions speak louder than words and the manner in which he stood, arms out-stretched in front of the Gallowgate End told of his relief.

Bruce had set off towards his match-winner only to abandon that plan.

‘I nearly did a Jose Mourinho - my hip has come out!’ said the Newcastle boss. ‘Even I got carried away.

‘But I’m delighted for him. Everyone who has seen him play will know he is a very good player, a great lad and very popular - you want people like that to succeed. Thankfully he has got it off his back.’

As the game developed it looked likely to end goalless with neither side creating much

In a physical affair, neither Andy Carroll nor Christian Benteke could make an impact

A mention, too, for the creator, for Andy Carroll made giant strides to connect with Fabian Schar’s deep cross and his leap was just as mammoth, cushioning for Almiron to lash home.

Carroll with his head is just as accurate as most with their feet and, without his mighty nod, Almiron’s drought would have gone on.

He was booked for his shirt-shedding celebration but he did not care, his fist still pumping the air as the card was apologetically flashed by Simon Hooper.

Elsewhere, Palace team-mates Wilfried Zaha and Patrick Van Aanholt were trying to keep their fists in check as they rowed furiously in front of Roy Hodgson’s dugout.

‘They might have had words in how they could have defended the cross better,’ said the manager.

‘They were disappointed to concede the goal so close to the end. So yes, they might have had a word, but that doesn’t surprise you when those things happen.’

Hodgson, though, was surprised by the result. And, to be fair, he had reason to be. Palace were awful in thel first half - yet still fashioned the best chance - and were much improved after the break.

The reason they did not score was entirely down to Newcastle goalkeeper Martin Dubravka as opposed to errant finishing.

The first half saw chances limited for either side as both defences stood strong at the back

Newcastle midfielder Jonjo Shelvey drove his side forward but couldn't find a way through

On three occasions he saved his side - quite literally - blocking Zaha’s low drive in the first half before snaffling at the feet of James McArthur in the second and then keeping out Christian Benteke’s goal-bound drill before Almiron’s winner.

That victory moves Bruce’s side into the top half of the table and, more significantly, 10 points clear of the relegation zone.

It has not been pretty - and it certainly wasn’t here - but it is hard to grumble with results and the Magpies will be as good as safe with a profitable return over Christmas.

Bruce’s decision to revert to a 3-5-2 formation was brave given how badly it had served them earlier in the season. However, with Almiron dropped into midfield three, the forward benefited from the extra space and was key as Newcastle bossed the opening 20 minutes.

But as he faded so did the team and they needed Dubravka to keep them in it before Almiron had his chance to win it seven minutes from time.

Was it worth the wait? Certainly not the best part of 2019. But this felt like the perfect scenario to break his duck. He and Bruce can only hope that, like Christmas, such moments do not come around just once a year.