She recently soaked up some winter sun during a glam trip to Dubai.

Yet Michelle Keegan looked to be settling fine into life back home as she appeared effortlessly chic while departing the Terrance Paul Hair Salon before heading off to run errands in Hale, Cheshire, on Saturday.

The former Coronation Street star, 32, cut a fashionable figure in a cream teddy coat which she left open to show a pale grey jumper underneath.

Style: Michelle Keegan, 32, looked effortlessly chic in a cream teddy bear coat as she left Terrance Paul hair salon to run errands in Hale, Cheshire, on Saturday

Michelle paired her warm jacket with some chic leather leggings and a pair of trendy black boots which had a statement silver zip up the front.

Never one to forget to accessorise, the beauty wore a small black leather bag across her body and donned a stylish pair of aviator sunglasses.

The star wore her long brunette locks down and perfectly styled into soft waves after leaving the salon, letting them cascade over her shoulders.

Stunning: The Our Girl actress wore her brunette locks down and perfectly styled into soft waves

During her outing Michelle was also seen stocking up on essentials before Christmas week by stopping off to buy some groceries.

It comes after Michelle's husband Mark Wright, 32, said he doesn't think she would go on Strictly Come Dancing.

Mark told the Sun: 'I mean never say never. I just think her nerves would go to another level, she gets quite nervous.'

Getting ready: Michelle also stocked up on groceries ahead of Christmas week on Saturday

All in the details: Michelle donned a pair of trendy black boots with a silver zip on the front and some aviator sunglasses to complete her ensemble

The former The Only Way Is Essex star competed on the show himself, reaching the semi-finals in 2014, and will appear in this year's Christmas special.

Mark will be dancing with Janette Manrara, but admits he's a little rusty, having appeared on the show five years ago.

He said: 'I’m a bit older and the joints have stiffened up. I won’t be horrendous but I’m never going to be that good as I’m not the best dancer as it is.

'It’s always nerve-wracking stepping out on to that dancefloor so I’m just nervous in general.

Couple: Mark Wright recently said that he doesn't think his wife would like being on Strictly Come Dancing as she 'gets quite nervous' (pictured together in March)

'I’m nervous I’ll make myself look silly or that I’m not going to dance well, but I’ve got the salsa so you’ve got to have a bit of rhythm for that.'

Mark also praised his dancing partner for the special Janette Manrara, who he first met during his first time on the show.

He said: 'To have Janette is unbelievable. I remember when it first started Janette was so kind to all the celebs on the first day, and she was dancing with Jake Wood that year.

'If I hadn’t have had Karen [Clifton in 2014] that’s who I’d want so now I’ve got the other one I want.'