As two bushfires in the southwest and and southeast parts of Victoria remain under 'watch and act' warnings, the state gets ready to face smoky conditions on Monday.

Mild conditions during the weekend helped firefighters strengthen containment lines, but two blazes were still burning uncontrolled in Tambo Crossing and Hotspur, Digby.

Temperatures dipped on Sunday with about 24C in East Gippsland, and a milder 22C in Melbourne, after a top of 44C in the Victorian capital on Friday.

Several other fires remained under advice warnings across the state.

None of the fires are a threat to lives and homes, but emergency services encouraged residents to remain vigilant as conditions could change quickly

"Emergency Services may not be able to help you if you decide to stay," the VicEmergency website stated.

The Environment Protection Authority forecast hazardous air quality on Monday, with winds forecast to drag smoke from bushfires burning in East Gippsland and New South Wales.

"Melbourne and the Latrobe Valley are expected to experience smoky conditions from the early hours of Monday morning until late Tuesday," the EPA said.

"People who are sensitive to air pollution could have symptoms like coughing or shortness of breath."

The bushfires in East Gippsland have been burning since Thursday - a day of statewide total fire bans which saw a 'Code Red' fire danger rating.

Hundreds of firefighters on the ground and in the air have been working across the state to contain the fires, which are concentrated in steep and largely inaccessible terrain.

"We have had more than 2,200 CFA deployments into New South Wales and Queensland since September and many more thousands of CFA members responding to fires back here in Victoria," CFA Chief Officer and CEO Steve Warrington said.

Mr Warrington will visit the East Gippsland fires on Monday as the final areas of Victoria - Moyne, Southern Grampians and Warrnambool - enter Fire Danger Period.

When a Fire Danger Period is declared, fires can't be lighted in open air without a permit or complying with certain requirements.