Kimberly Walsh has revealed her two sons' - Bobby, four, and Cole, two - sweet friendship with former bandmate Cheryl's toddler Bear, two.

The Girls Aloud star, 38, took to Instagram to share a glimpse of the rarely-seen tot during a magical day out at Lapland UK on Friday together.

Kimberly posted a picture of Bobby, Cole and Bear all sat facing watching a festive show together.

Friendship: Kimberly Walsh has revealed her two sons' - Bobby, four, and Cole, two - sweet friendship with former bandmate Cheryl's toddler Bear, two (pictured with Nicola Roberts in March)

The singer captioned the snap with: '#Boys boys boys' as she tagged Lapland UK, Cheryl and Sally Sheppard.

It comes after Cheryl took to Instagram to share a snap while soaking up the festivities at Lapland UK on Friday.

The former Girls Aloud star, 36, donned a snazzy red coat as she walked along through the idyllic backdrop for a day of fun.

Sweet: The Girls Aloud star, 38, took to Instagram to share a glimpse of the rarely-seen tot during a magical day out at Lapland UK on Friday together

'Too much cuteness': Kimberly posted a picture of Bobby, Cole and Bear all sat facing watching a festive show together

Cheryl appeared to be borrowing from her Fight For This Love days in her military-inspired hat and long red coat for the trip.

Adding to the elegant look was the tot's Spider-Man rucksack which was no doubt laden with his essentials following the day of fun.

The duo were enjoying themselves at Lapland UK, with Cheryl adding a caption reading: 'Walking in a winter wonderland! @laplanduk'.

Cheryl is set to spend Christmas with her son Bear and her ex Liam Payne and she has made sure this festive holiday is one to remember, as she revealed she has pulled out all the stops in preparation for Christmas Day.

Mother and son: It comes after Cheryl took to Instagram to share a snap while soaking up the festivities at Lapland UK on Friday with Bear

Getting in the Christmas spirit: She gave a fleeting glimpse of her son Bear just two days before to show off her stunning Christmas decorations

Cute! The mum-of-one will be sporting a striped pajama set on Christmas Day that matches her baby boy's striped trousers and elf-embroidered top

Taking to Instagram on Wednesday, the former Girls Aloud star, 36, gave fans a little glimpse at her baby boy, as she filled her home with lavish decorations and sought out matching elf-inspired outfits for herself and Bear to wear.

In a cute photo shared to her Instagram story, Cheryl declared: 'Santa, we're ready,' while sharing a snap of the outfits she has prepared for herself and Bear.

While Cheryl will be slipping into a red and white striped two-piece pajama set, little Bear will twin with his mum in matching trousers and a red long-sleeved top with a pair of elf's legs embroidered onto the front.

And it's not just a new outfit that will be putting little Bear into the Christmas spirit, as mum Cheryl revealed the tot has been given his own tree.

There he is! Bear's head was just about visible in Cheryl's story as she shared a video of her grand red and gold themed Christmas tree

Adorned with Disney decorations, including decorations from The Lion King and Winnie The Pooh, Bear's tree sits pretty in her home alongside a much larger red and gold themed tree.

While showing off her grand design, Cheryl managed to steal a look at Bear as he excitedly ran in front of the tree - his head is just about visible at the bottom of the screen.

To help get her home looking festive, Cheryl enlisted the help of London-based company Early Hours London, to decorate her home with stunning wreaths, festive fireplace center pieces and, of course, a giant glittering Christmas tree.

It seems she was inspired by her fellow celebs, as the same company was used by Peter Crouch and wife Abbey Clancy, as well as Rochelle and Marvin Humes.

Clearly thrilled with their efforts, Cheryl commented: 'You don't know how happy this makes me.'

It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas: Cheryl revealed that little Bear has his very own Christmas tree, filled with Disney-themed decorations

'So happy': The former Girls Aloud star enlisted the help of London based company, Early Hours London, to help transform her home into something more grotto-inspired

The Crazy Stupid Love singer is set to spend Christmas Day with her family, son Bear and his dad, her ex-boyfriend, Liam.

Former One Direction star Liam revealed he'll be cooking Christmas dinner for Cheryl and Bear this year - something he is looking forward to, as it helps to bring him 'back to normality'.

Speaking on This Morning, he said: I’m going to go down and see Bear and maybe cook a Christmas dinner. I like to do Sunday roasts, brings you back to normality.

Stunning: She was clearly thrilled with their efforts and commented: 'You don't know how happy this makes me,' while flaunting her new wreaths and centre pieces

'I’m at home with my girlfriend at the minute but we’re going to go down and have some food and chill out.'

He added: 'It’s the first time he [Bear] really gets Christmas now. I want to see if he really gets unwrapping presents this year. Otherwise it’ll just be Cheryl by the tree again.

'I can really remember it from last year, she wrapped them all up and then unwrapped them, I was just sat there going "Right, what is this?"'

Finishing touches: Christmas wreaths were placed in position for Christmas dinner on Cheryl's dining table

Family Christmas: Cheryl's ex, Liam Payne, who is dating model Maya Henry (pictured above), has said he will spend Christmas with the singer and son Bear this year

Liam is now dating 19-year-old model Maya Henry, following his split from Cheryl in July 2018.

Things between the exes have remained amicable since their split, with Liam recently stating he hopes Cheryl finds 'happiness' in the future.

Speaking on Ant Middleton and Liam Payne: Straight Talking, Liam said: 'I hope she’s happy, she deserves it, she’s a great mum, she works hard, she deserves to find happiness.

‘I have thought long and hard about [her moving on with someone else]. We will find our own peace with it, for now, it’s good.'