The £150,000 sports car was launched at an event to encourage more women to start up their own business

Advertisement

A custom-made Ferrari is turning heads after its Welsh designer decided she wanted it to be bright pink.

Lisa Marie Brown, 38, from Cardiff, Wales, is behind the UK's first pink Ferrari which was launched at an event to encourage more women to start up their own business.

The entrepreneur went viral after becoming the proud owner of a pink Maserati which cost a hefty £58,000 so the matching Ferrari California is another addition to her collection of pink supercars. You may even see her driving the high-speed Italian car through the streets of Cardiff.

She said: 'People thought it was quite extravagant but a lot of people liked the colour of the car and think it's brilliant.

'We thought it would be a quirky way to launch the car and to link it in training and upskilling young people.

'I'd say around 70 per cent of people liked it but 30 per cent were not too keen but many women who said they liked it said they felt inspired.

'I have always had a passion for cars and I have always enjoyed driving fast cars so being able to custom-make and design them is something I enjoy doing and to have the opportunity to work on a Ferrari is amazing.'

Lisa Marie Brown, 38, from Cardiff, Wales, is behind the UK's first pink Ferrari which was launched at an event to encourage more women to start up their own business

The entrepreneur went viral after becoming the proud owner of a pink Maserati which cost a hefty £58,000 so the matching Ferrari California is another addition to her collection of pink supercars

Lisa refused to be drawn on exactly how much the car cost but motoring website Autocar says the Ferrari California is capable of hitting speeds of 196mph, can go from zero to 60mph in three seconds, and sells for in excess of £150,000

Lisa refused to be drawn on exactly how much the car cost but motoring website Autocar says the Ferrari California is capable of hitting speeds of 196mph, can go from zero to 60mph in three seconds, and sells for in excess of £150,000.

As the founder and managing director of Abercynon-based business Pinkspiration, Lisa has run a number of projects to mentor women to get involved in business and so far she has trained 10,000 young people, many of whom have gone into employment.

She also has her own television show, Superstars and Supercars, on Cardiff TV, which gives advice on how to start and grow a business while also showcasing some amazing cars. Lisa said she had been in touch with national TV stations who have expressed interest in running an online series.

It was through the programme that Lisa had the opportunity to work on the Ferrari with Stratstone Ferrari, in Wilmslow, to campaign for women to make up 50 per cent of industry and business.

As the founder and managing director of Abercynon-based business Pinkspiration, Lisa has run a number of projects to mentor women to get involved in business

She also has her own television show, Superstars and Supercars, on Cardiff TV, which gives advice on how to start and grow a business while also showcasing some amazing cars

Lisa said: 'It's really important to inspire young women because there are only 2 per cent of female directors in Wales, 3 per cent of women working in manual trades, and only 5 per cent of women working in engineering

Lisa said: 'It's really important to inspire young women because there are only 2 per cent of female directors in Wales, 3 per cent of women working in manual trades, and only 5 per cent of women working in engineering.

'It's really important we change the perception of industry and a 50/50 gender split in construction and business. It's good for the economy and it's good for the community as well.

'It's a positive thing to train and upskill young people into industry and to aim for a more diverse workforce.'

Speaking about whether she had any other pink supercars in mind, Lisa said she was willing to work with any car manufacturers.

She added: 'We're happy to work with any supercar brands, whether that is McLaren or Lamborghini, and we're talking to Ferrari about other models, and Aston Martin, so we're open to new ideas and new concepts.'