A series of Instagram videos reveals the last events of the evening three women spent together before dying in a tragic accident when their car rear-ended a tractor trailer in New Jersey Friday night.

Police identified driver Brianna Martinez, 23, and passengers Michaela Powell, 23, and Uchechukw Chukwuma, 24, all of Somerset, New Jersey, as the victims in the collision Friday at about 11.50pm in Woodbridge.

The fatal incident was said to have occurred when Martinez, who was driving a 2012 Nissan Altima, slammed into the rear of a tractor trailer that was pulling away from a stoplight, according to ABC 7.

Michaela Powell, 23 (left), and Uchechukw Chukwuma, 24 (right), died after the car they were riding in rear-ended a tractor trailer Friday night

Police said Brianna Martinez, 23, was driving the car when it rear-ended the tractor trailer

Powell and Chukwuma posted videos to Instagram Stories chronicling their evening out with Martinez and their friends. Powell is seen at left, while Martinez is at right

Chukwuma was seen in the videos toasting her friends (left). Powell (far right) and Chukwuma (in blue) are picture together at right

Powell and Chukwuma were declared dead at the scene. Martinez was taken to the hospital, where she later died.

The driver of the tractor trailer was said to have stayed at the crash scene, News 12 New Jersey reported.

It's unclear if the truck driver suffered any injuries during the collision and police have not revealed how fast Martinez's car was traveling at the time of the crash.

A series of videos Powell posted to Instagram Stories starting at about 6pm Friday night revealed that the three women had spent the evening out with friends, toasting each other while at bars or restaurants.

First responders were seen at the incident scene as they worked to separate the car from the rear end of the tractor trailer

The entire front half of the car the women were in was totaled during the collision

The tractor trailer can be seen here at the stoplight, surrounded by emergency vehicles

In the last video Powell posted Friday, apparently at about 11.41pm, she can be seen in the backseat of a car singing along to a song playing in the background.

Chukwama also posted videos from the evening on Instagram Stories, showing friends toasting the camera with drinks, as well as reposting clips of herself raising glasses and dancing.

Police called the incident 'a tragic accident,' according to the New York Post.

Martinez and Chukwuma graduated from Somerset's Franklin High School in 2014. Chukwuma graduated from Syracuse University and was a legal intern, according to her Instagram bio.

A GoFundMe for funeral arrangements has been set up and raised $9,000 of the $30,000 goal as of Sunday.

Police are investigating the crash and anyone with information about the incident is asked to call the Woodbridge Police Department’s Traffic Enforcement Unit at 732-634-7700.