She recently split from her boyfriend of one year, Grant Mellon.

And Nina Dobrev didn't let her romance woes affect her as she put on a stylish display as she joined her parents on Monday to catch a flight out of Los Angeles ahead of Christmas.

The Vampire Diaries star, 30, donned a long grey coat and rounded dark sunglasses as she and her family strolled through the LAX terminal alongside her dog.

Jetting off: Nina Dobrev nailed casual chic in a long grey coat and rounded sunglasses as she joined her parents on Monday to jet out of LA for Christmas

Nina teamed her chic coat with a navy and black striped cardigan layered over a white top.

She added black leggings and a pair of chunky, black lace-up boots, while she carried her essentials in a large tan tote bag.

The actress appeared lost in thought as she accompanied her parents through the airport ahead of their flight.

The outing comes shortly after her split from Grant Mellon, with an insider telling E! News last month: 'Nina hasn't brought him around to any of her events in over a month and hasn't mentioned Grant.'

Looking good: The Vampire Diaries star, 30, looked effortlessly stylish as she and her family strolled through the LAX terminal alongside her dog

'She has been partying and hanging out with friends without him. He has been shooting a Netflix film outside of Los Angeles and they haven't been hanging out together,' the source said.

'Nina seems to be doing fine but none of their friends have seen or talked to Grant.'

Another source leaked to the publication that their break-up was very much swept under the rug.

'Nina hasn't mentioned a breakup,' the source said.

Over: The outing comes shortly after her split from Grant Mellon, with an insider telling E! News last month: 'Nina hasn't brought him around to any of her events in over a month and hasn't mentioned Grant' (pictured in March)

'But she hasn't spoken about Grant in several weeks. She seems to be quite happy and has recently been out socializing with friends, each time without Grant.'

The news comes after the Vampire Diaries alum was seen packing on the PDA with Grant during a beach day in Maui, Hawaii, at the beginning of September.

Later that month the pair roamed the streets of Paris hand-in-hand, appearing to still be very-much an item.

While it's not known the exact date Nina and Grant began dating, he attended her 30th birthday party back in January and they pair sat front row at a LA Laker's game in March.