For many of us the Christmas season is an opportunity to indulge, as we enjoy extra helpings of turkey, chocolate and mince pies.

But experts have warned revellers need to be aware of the 'empty' calories in their favourite festive tipple, too.

Speaking to FEMAIL, Alexandra Clark, of Slimming World, and Mark Gilbert, of The 1:1 Diet by Cambridge Weight Plan, revealed just how many calories are in your Christmas party drinks - and the best way to make them as healthy as possible.

How many calories are in YOUR favourite festive drink? Mark Gilbert, of The 1:1 Diet by Cambridge Weight Plan said: WINE: 145 calories per small glass of wine (175ml). Sparkling / Champaign / Cava is similar but usually in a smaller serving BEER: 125-160 calories per bottle of beer; 70-110 calories per bottle of lite beer SPIRITS: 61 calories per 25ml (one shot). 84 calories per 35ml (often used by pubs and bars as one 'shot'). COCKTAILS: This depends entirely on mix you add to the base spirit you use – it could be zero-calorie mix or something full of sugar, so the sky's the limit

COCKTAILS

NUMBER OF CALORIES: 'Sky is the limit'

Experts from the UK's leading weight management programs shared advice for staying on track with healthy nutrition throughout the festive season (file image)

'Cocktails can be surprisingly high in calories, thanks to their combination of sugar, fruit juices, cream and spirits,' Alexandra said.

'Typically, creamy cocktails will be higher in calories, as well as those which are heavy on the sugary syrups. This is on top of the calories from the various spirits and liqueurs which make up the base of traditional cocktails.

Low calorie cocktails Mark said: 'Martinis are excellent – as long as you make the base with vodka and vermouth, you can add a splash of anything – cranberry, coffee, any juice, chocolate milk, etc – the beauty of it is that you are only going to add a bit of the 'third' ingredient, so even if it does contain calories, it is only likely to be a small amount. 'Cosmopolitans can be made with lite cranberry (in addition to the vodka, Cointreau and lime juice) and thus be quite low in calories. Alexandra 'Or if you have a favourite cocktail you just can't imagine Christmas without, enjoy one or two spread out with lower calorie options between to help manage your intake overall.'

'These calories don't fill us up and they can quickly add up, especially when we're combining various drinks in a cocktail.'

Mark explained cocktails can be particularly tricky to judge as the calorie count varies wildly depending on the mixer.

He said: 'It could be zero-calorie mix or something full of sugar, so the sky's the limit.'

SPIRITS

NUMBER OF CALORIES: 61 calories per 25m (one shot).

Mark said: 'If you intend to have several drinks, stick to straight/'neat' spirits (or with ice) or add a calorie-free mixer.

'A popular option is to drink gin and tonic with a calorie-free tonic – there are now several such options.

'There are any number of calorie-free beverages you can mix with vodka or rum, etc. So you could experiment with calorie-free cranberry juice, sparkling water (to add fizz), or any number of orange, cola, lemon or other fizzy drinks that are sugar free.'

Alexandra said: 'Where possible swap for low or no calorie mixers instead of creamy, sugary drinks, or fruit juices; or add slices of orange or cinnamon sticks for that extra festive flavour without the added calories.

'Or, why not aim to alternate each of your chosen cocktails with a low calorie soft drink – great for reducing calories and potentially the next day's hangover!'

Speaking to FEMAIL, Alexandra Clark, of Slimming World, and Mark Gilbert, of The 1:1 Diet by Cambridge Weight Plan, revealed just how many calories are in your Christmas party drinks - and the best way to make them as healthy as possible. Stock image

WINE AND BEER

NUMBER OF CALORIES: 125-160 calories per bottle of beer; 70-110 calories per bottle of lite beer. 145 calories per small glass of wine (175ml).

Mark said: 'One light beer or glass of wine is unlikely to foil your calorie-constraining efforts this holiday season.'

However, as with any drink, over-indulging can create problems.

Red wine is high in antioxidants, and lower in sugar than white wine and champagne. It is even beneficial for heart health (when enjoyed in moderation).

Mark added: 'Good old mulled wine is only slightly higher in calories than normal fare.'

Meanwhile, when it comes to beer, 'lite' versions are less calorific than regular ones, although all beer is best avoided if you want to trim down.

That's because beer is made with gluten, sugar, and yeast which can all have adverse effects on the gut.