Jack P. Shepherd has been inundated with messages from an over-amorous fan telling him they 'love' his hands and nails.

The Coronation Street star, 31, shared a screen grab from one fan who has been messaging him since September to compliment his 'hands and nails', even going as far as to say, 'I want to do things to your hands and nails'.

Jack, who has played David Platt for almost 20 years, eventually gave in and responded to the messages before taking a screen grab seen by The Sun.

'I want to do things to your hands and nails': Jack P Shepherd has been inundated with messages from an over amorous fan telling him they 'love' his hands and nails

He replied: 'REALLY!? Would never have guessed!'

His admirer responded to various Instagram Stories showing Jack with a glass of fizz, as his hands were on prominent display.

They repeated 'I love your hands and nails' three times within one screen grab, prompting Jack's sarcastic response before he posted it to his Instagram Stories.

It comes after it was revealed Jack charged his fans £3 for a meet-and-greet at a Christmas nightclub appearance last month.

Hand model? His admirer responded to various Instagram Stories showing Jack with a glass of fizz, as his hands were on prominent display

Events: It comes after it was revealed Jack charged his fans £3 for a meet-and-greet at a Christmas nightclub appearance last month [pictured on Coronation Street]

It was claimed Jack realised there was 'a lot of money to be made' from personal appearances, a source told The Sun On Sunday.

Fans stumped up £3 for an autograph and a selfie at Electrik Warehouse where they were also given a Gail Platt mask, ahead of further appearances this month.

Jack appeared at the club on a Saturday night where posters promised: '1000 free Gail Platt masks, to make Jack feel at home', in reference to his on-screen mum, played by Helen Worth.

Cough up! Fans stumped up £3 for an autograph and a selfie at Pandamonium nightclub where they were also given a Gail Platt mask, ahead of further appearances this month

The source added: 'It's easy money. All you have to do is turn up, pose for photos and sip free drinks.

'It’s a very lucrative business - especially because the biggest stars can expect to rake in up to £10,000 from a venue to make a single appearance.'

The star is listed on Prime Performers Speakers Agency as 'available for Light Switching on Ceremonies, personal appearances and where contracts allow promotions and advertising'.

Happy days: Jack performed at the club on Saturday where posters promised: '1000 free Gail Platt masks, to make Jack feel at home', in reference to his on-screen mum, played by Helen Worth (pictured)