A volunteer firefighter broke down in tears on live radio over 'offensive' suggestions the Rural Fire Service 'failed' the decimated town of Balmoral.

New South Wales Premier Gladys Berejiklian said there 'wasn't much left of the town' in the state's Southern Highlands after a firestorm roared through the area twice in three days.

The town has about 150 properties, and the total number destroyed is still unknown.

But the RFS volunteer, known only as Greg, insisted Balmoral 'has not been wiped off the map'.

The small town of just 400 people was decimated during the fires last Thursday and then again on Saturday

Train rails were among the structural damage in Saturday's catastrophic bushfires in the Southern Highlands village of Balmoral, 120km south west of Sydney

A house is seen barely standing after the catastrophic bushfires that swept through the tiny town of Balmoral

'It was horrific... It is not almost gone. It is all still there,' he told 2GB Radio on Monday.

'The suggestion that we failed in defending that village… I don't know how the other guys [in the fire crew] take that, but me personally, I'm quite offended at the suggestion that we lost that village because we didn't.

'I can only speak for me, I'd rather not speak for my crewmates, but the suggestion by the Premier and the media … Balmoral has not been wiped off the map. It is not almost gone. It is all still there.'

Eerie photos show the charred remains of Balmoral, in the New South Wales Southern Highlands. This car was one of dozens lost in the blaze

Flames were 200 metres tall as fire-fighters battled the blaze which hit the town of Balmoral in the New South Wales southern highlands at the weekend

Conditions in the town on Saturday reached a catastrophic warning level, and as temperatures soared past 40 degrees fire approached Balmoral from three different directions.

Local RFS Captain Brendon O'Connor estimated 18 homes were destroyed - more than 10 per cent of the village, and 90 per cent of the surrounding bush.

Captain O'Connor also said as conditions hit their worst they ran out of water.

'We're on tank water here… We were desperately trying to get more water into us, desperately calling for more to come in. A member from another brigade spoke to his boss about getting another truck into us really quick,' he told the Guardian.

Locals set up a sign in response to NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian's comments that the small village had been destroyed

The town of Balmoral in the New South Wales southern highlands suffered significant loss of property after fires swept through at the weekend