A California teacher was placed on leave for a second time after allegedly telling students she wanted to 'bring back slavery' and made other racist remarks.

Students at Space and Aeronautics Gateway to Exploration Magnet Academy claimed the teacher, who has not been named, was full of praise for Donald Trump's border wall.

They told officials she claimed she would torture students and made comments about eating human flesh, according to the Los Angeles Times.

Yaretzy Martinez, (left) and Jossylin Villegas, (right), were distressed by remarks made by a teacher at Sage Academy Magnet School which they claimed were racist

A California teacher was placed on leave for a second time after allegedly telling students she wanted to 'bring back slavery' and made other distressing remarks

The history teacher at Space had returned to class for just week week after being placed on an earlier administrative leave for making inappropriate remarks.

Students then came forward to officials with other remarks she allegedly made which they had not been told of.

Ryan Beardsley, assistant superintendent of human resources at the Palmdale School District, confirmed Friday that the teacher is on leave, according to the LA Times.

He would only say that the remarks were 'racial in nature.' Officials claimed that 'appropriate action has been taken' about the first investigation.

However more information and what the outcome of inquiry was would not be disclosed as they were confidential.

'Employees are entitled to contractual rights, labor law and due process,' Beardsley said.

Students said the teacher’s classroom had Trump paraphernalia such as mugs and posters on the walls.

One parent told ABC7 that the children were severely traumatized and very upset at the remarks made the teacher, which led to her being placed on administrative leave

One student explained that the teacher asked them to highlight phrases which mentioned Mexicans, immigration and Donald Trump at the school, (pictured)

One student explained that the teacher asked them to highlight phrases which mentioned Mexicans, immigration and Donald Trump in a report about the U.S.-Mexico border.

The largest student population in the school district is made up of Latinos followed by black students, according to the Los Angeles Times.

At a conference, one student called Jossylin Villegas said: 'It would be uncomfortable for me as a child of an undocumented person to go in that class and suck up all her words and her nasty comments.

Parents and activists have demanded the teacher's removal from the school over her remarks

A student called Miguel Gonzales claimed the teacher would call Latino students racist names

'Imagine being an hour in that class and having to hear her talk about how we shouldn’t be here, about how we live off of white people’s money and we’re just stealing their jobs.'

Yaretzy Martinez, 13, claimed that she got detention as she did not attend history class because of what the teacher would say.

'I didn’t want to go to my teacher’s class that would talk bad about Hispanics,' she said.

'I don’t think I was supposed to be in there. I feel like she has no right to talk bad about our race.

She added: 'She was saying we don't belong in this country, she would say we used the Government for welfare and food stamps, we would take white people's jobs.'

Another student called Miguel Gonzales claimed the teacher would call Latino students racist names.

One parent told ABC7: 'The kids were severely traumatized, very upset and extremely angry to the point that they were literally crying.'