It's the time of year for treating yourself.

And Jemma Lucy made sure this Christmas season would be one to remember as she gifted herself a very impressive new set of wheels and showed it off on Sunday.

The Ex On The Beach star, 31, kept things casual in a grey tracksuit and black gilet as she filled up her £155,400 Lamborghini Huracan in Manchester.

Running errands: Jemma Lucy, 31, kept things casual in a grey tracksuit and black gilet as she filled up her Lamborghini Huracan in Manchester

Jemma looked relaxed as she flaunted her curves in a tight marl-grey tracksuit set and a black puffed body warmer.

She paired her laid-back ensemble with some comfortable black sock trainers which had a white sole and donned some trendy mirrored sunglasses.

The reality TV star tied her long black locks into a high ponytail for her trip to the garage and ensured that her nails were perfectly painted with a light blue colour.

Jemma's trip out comes after she defended using the N-word, citing the fact that her daughter is mixed-raced.

New wheels: The Ex On The Beach star looked pleased with her new black Lamborghini

Style: To complete her laid back ensemble Jemma tied her long locks into a high pony tail

She shocked fans on December 8 when she filmed herself singing along to a rap song, which used the slur.

After receiving a fierce backlash from her followers, Jemma hit back with a video claiming it was 'not her fault' as she was simply singing along to the lyrics, before referencing that she has black friends and a mixed race child.

Jemma, who welcomed her first child in May, shared a clip citing: 'So the moral of the story is, it's not my fault when the rappers use the N word in songs.

Slur: Jemma recently defended using the N-word, citing the fact that her daughter is mixed race after she was slammed for singing the slur in a video on Sunday

'I'm just singing along to the songs because I really like the songs. And I like - well I'm not gonna say the word - but I have friends who are that ... My daughter is a quarter ... so yeah, f**k you!'

Jemma also shared a screengrab of a conversation she had with a concerned follower, who had told her, 'Stop saying n**** in your vids it's embarrassing and disgusting just because it's a song doesn't give you the justification to say it. Do your research.'

To which Jemma responded: 'Sorry hun didn't realise it was my fault rappers say n***a f**k off borin packet of s**t'.

Defence: She hit back with a video claiming it was 'not her fault' as she was simply singing along to the lyrics, before referencing that she has black friends and a mixed race child

The Celebrity Big Brother contestant went on to share a conversation she had with one of her supporters. Jemma began the chat by stating: 'U know me. I ain't no racist. Just like the ghetto music! [sic]'

Shocked followers rushed to Twitter to condemn the star for her choice language, sharing: 'I know Jemma Lucy didn't just take to her insta story to say her daughter is quarter n***a so that means she can say it LMAOOOOOOOO HUH????

'Just because Jemma Lucy's daughter is 1/4 black does not justify her using the n word. I am mixed race half black and I NEVER say that word. It's not an entitlement, you just don't do it. Get educated, admit your wrong and say sorry. P***es me off.'

Moral: Jemma, who welcomed her first child in May, shared a clip citing: 'So the moral of the story is, it's not my fault when the rappers use the N word in songs'

Hitting back: Jemma also shared a screengrab of a conversation she had with a concerned follower as she told the fan to 'bore off'

Fan: The Celebrity Big Brother contestant went on to share a conversation she had with one of her supporters as she referenced her love of ghetto music

'omg Jemma Lucy is actually deranged on her instagram stories purposely saying the n word ??? what the actual f**k'; 'Jemma Lucy. She basically called her own daughter the n word'; '

Jemma Lucy is not only ignorant for thinking she can say the n word however she pleases just cuz it's a song as a white person, she also calls her daughter a half n word, WOW, cannot make this s**t up'; 'Jemma Lucy and all these other wannabes are the same. They beg off the culture, bred our slang and all the rest then feel entitled to say words that aren't for them'.

Jemma was caught up in another race row two years ago, when she was filmed saying the N-word whilst on a night out with Jordan Davies and Kieran Lee.

At the time, she told Mirror Online: 'I'm just singing along to a rap song, as I love rap music. I was at a house party I am so sorry if it has offended anyone.'

Outrage: Shocked followers rushed to Twitter to condemn the star for her choice language as they insisted the star shouldn't be justifying the use of the slur

MailOnline contacted Jemma's representatives for comment at the time.

Back in December, Jemma stunned fans when she announced she was pregnant, and the controversial star admitted she debated not going through with having her first child yet decided to 'do the right thing'.

In her initial pregnancy announcement, she vowed to never reveal the father's identity after a secret two-year romance yet has now divulged details of their 'toxic' relationship which included a kidnap attempt and bids to abort her child.

She welcomed her daughter on May 25, and has chosen not to disclose her baby girl's name or share any pictures of her face.