She's had an incredible 2019 after marrying Justin Bieber in a star-studded second wedding ceremony.

And Hailey Bieber took to Instagram to reflect on the past year as she posted a stunning mirror selfie in preparation of 2020.

Clearly feeling nostalgic, the model, 23, also shared a sweet throwback photo of herself as a child as she joked about her haircut.

New year, New Hailey: Hailey Bieber took to Instagram to reflect on the past year as she posted a stunning mirror selfie in preparation of 2020

In the recent selfie, Hailey styled her blonde locks into a voluminous blow-dried hairdo as she added a slick of glamorous make-up.

The star's 23.9M followers were quick to compliment the beauty as she posed is a black crop top and skinny high-waisted jeans.

Hailey captioned the photo: 'Almost done with work for 2019.. can’t believe how fast it’s gone! READY for 2020'.

Throwback: Clearly feeling nostalgic, the model, 23, also shared a sweet throwback photo of herself as a child as she joked about her haircut

One fan wrote: 'Wow... that’s such a beautiful picture!!'

With another saying: 'Smoke show', followed with a flame emoji.

Clearly feeling nostalgic, the model, 23, went on to share a sweet throwback photo of herself as a child as she joked about her past haircut.

The blonde beauty expressed her appreciation of her hairstyle, with a caption that read: 'Dang, that haircut!!'

Sweet: This year saw Hailey say 'I do' again to her singer boyfriend Justin Bieber in a secret religious second wedding ceremony surrounded by close friends and family (pictured in August)

This year saw Hailey say 'I do' again to her singer boyfriend Justin Bieber in a secret religious second wedding ceremony surrounded by close friends and family.

The nuptials came a year after the pair secretly exchanged vows just two months after their proposal in 2018.

Only recently, Justin posed shirtless showing off his muscular back and Calvin Klein underwear with his doting wife peering over his shoulder in a close embrace.

This comes as a part of a Calvin Klein campaign the pair are involved with.

The in-demand model and occasional actress was last seen in the 10,000 hours video for the release of the same name by Dan + Shay & Justin Bieber which dropped in October this year.

She has also graced the covers of Vogue magazine across the world, and has modelled for various names including Top Shop, Sonia Rykiel, Tommy Hilfiger, Ralph Lauren and Moschino among many others.

The celebrity is also the new face of Levi jeans.