Two people have died, 54 others are injured, and 15 homes have been burned as bushfires cause carnage across South Australia.

More than 40,000 hectares has been burned across the state with 1500 firefighters being dispatched to battle the blazes.

Paramedics have transported 29 members of the public who needed treatment due to the raging fires.

Emergency crews have also suffered injuries with 23 firefighters injured, one seriously, and two police officers needing treatment.

Two people have died, 54 others are injured, and 15 homes have been burned as bushfires cause carnage across South Australia

Residents put out spot fires on Station Road in Woodside in the Adelaide Hills in Adelaide, South Australia, Australia, 20 December 2019

An aerial view shows a bushfire at Adelaide Hills near Adelaide, Australia December 20, 2019

A man's body found at a property near Charleston in the Adelaide Hills has been identified as that of Ron Selth, aged in his 60s, reports 9News.

His family have been notified.

The massive Cudlee Creek fire in the Adelaide Hills has ravaged 25,000 hectares of country.

Neighbour Michael McFarlane told 9News Mr Selth was a 'nice bloke'.

'I didn't know the gentleman was up there. Now, if I had have known, I would have jumped in this machine behind me, went and picked him up and brought him back here as the fire was getting closer,' he added.

A general view shows smoke from a bushfire near Gumeracha in the Adelaide Hills, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia, 21 December 2019

A man's body found at a property near Charleston in the Adelaide Hills has been identified as that of Ron Selth (pictured), aged in his 60s

Another fatality was also reported at Lameroo when a car hit a tree sparking a grass fire.

As of Saturday 15 houses have been confirmed to have been destroyed, along with 28 other buildings and 16 cars.

Two blazes on Kangaroo Island at Menzies and Duncan have burned more than 9,500 hectares and are still burning uncontrolled.

South Australian premier Steven Marshall said the scale of the devastation was not yet known.

'The initial damage assessment is very significant for South Australia,' he said.

'There has been devastation right across the Adelaide Hills and the extent of that is yet to be seen,' he said.

Building destroyed by a fire in Lobethal in the Adelaide Hills, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia

Burnt paddock in Lobethal in the Adelaide Hills, Adelaide, South Australia

A Woodside resident battles a fire as it crosses Ridge Road at Woodside in the Adelaide Hills in Adelaide, South Australia

Building destroyed by a fire in Lobethal in the Adelaide Hills, Adelaide, South Australia

'Many people in the affected areas haven't had the opportunity to go back and assess the damage and I think there will be some pretty devastating scenes ahead of Christmas.'

'We know in addition to those losses there are very significant losses of livestock, animals, crops and vineyards.

'It's going to be a scene of devastation, especially for those people in the Adelaide Hills who've been most affected.'

The cause of the Cudlee Creek fire is still being investigated but is believed to have been caused by a branch falling on a powerline.

Residents put out spot fires on Station Road in Woodside