Ronald Reagan's daughter has slammed President Donald Trump over his remarks suggesting the late congressman John Dingell is in hell.

Patti Davis, 66, blasted Trump in an op-ed on Thursday for the Washington Post, writing that Trump was 'showing that his cruelty really has no limits.'

It is just the latest response to Trump's remarks at a rally on Wednesday night, when he said that Dingell's widow, Rep. Debbie Dingell, should have voted against impeachment because Trump had authorized full funeral honors for her husband in February.

'Maybe he's looking up, I don't know, but let's assume he's looking down,' Trump quipped as he boasted of signing off on funeral honors for the Democrat, who served longer in Congress than any other member ever has.

Patti Davis, 66, blasted Trump in an op-ed on Thursday for the Washington Post, writing that Trump was 'showing that his cruelty really has no limits'

Davis (far right) is seen as a child with her father Ronald Reagan, mother Nancy, and brother Ronald Jr in an undated family photo

At a rally on Wednesday, Trump suggested the late congressman John Dingell is in hell

Davis, an actress and author, wrote that she knew well the pain of hearing a dead loved one publicly mocked and scorned, as she experienced when her father passed away in 2004.

'I know the humiliation and hurt when cruel comments are lobbed from a public forum, and my heart goes out to Debbie Dingell,' Davis wrote.

'Maybe some of those in his audience on Wednesday finally began to perceive that his [Trump's] cruelty is limitless, his sense of decency nonexistent,' she continued.

In her criticism, Davis joins Senator Lindsey Graham, one of Trump's staunch Republican allies, as well as Never Trumper Meghan McCain of The View.

Graham took issue with Trump's comments, telling Fox News's Bret Baier: 'Well, number one, this joke is not funny.

'I like the president. I think his sense of humor doesn't play well here,' he said.

McCain also heaped scorn on Trump on Thursday's episode of The View, saying that his wife Melania and daughter Ivanka are 'complicit' for failing to rein him in.

'The Be Best, anti-bullying c**p -- I don't want to hear any more from anybody,' said McCain, who has long expressed fury over Trump's unkind remarks about her own deceased father, Senator John McCain.

'I don't want to hear it from Ivanka, I don't want to hear it from Melania,' added Meghan McCain. 'Until you get him in line when it comes to disparaging people ... when you are disparaging widows and people who have served the country and war heroes who have passed -- again, I know something about it -- it is, until you get them in line, you are complicit in this as well.'

Rep. Debbie Dingell (Democrat of Michigan) finishes a television interview on Capitol Hill on Thursday in which she reacted to Trump's remarks about her late husband

John Dingell was the longest serving member of Congress and his wife Debbie replaced him in his congressional seat - the couple is seen together in 2014

Debbie Dingell is seen following her husband's casket during services in February

'There is a special kind of horrific monstrosity in [Trump] that does this type of thing to widows,' McCain said.

Dingell, the longest-serving member of Congress, died in February aged 92 after representing his House district outside Detroit for 59 years.

After his death, Trump said he gave the family the 'A-plus treatment' with a memorial and funeral service honors for Dingell.

John Dingell's wife Debbie also criticized the President's jokes in an emotional post on Twitter.

She said: 'Mr President, let's set politics aside. My husband earned all his accolades after a lifetime of service.

'I'm preparing for the first holiday season without the man I love. You brought me down in a way you can never imagine and your hurtful words just made my healing much harder.'

White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham said after Trump's controversial comments that he was 'just riffing' and he was 'counter-punching' after being impeached.