Interim boss Duncan Ferguson has revealed Carlo Ancelotti gave a 'lovely' speech to his new Everton players after Saturday's draw with Arsenal.

Ferguson has led the side since the sacking of Marco Silva but news of Ancelotti's appointment arrived pre-match, with the 60-year-old Italian sat in the directors' box to watch his new side.

And while he had no say over the tactics or team selection with Ferguson in the dug-out for a third straight game, Ancelotti did address the squad after the full-time whistle.

Carlo Ancelotti gave a 'lovely' speech to his Everton players according to Duncan Ferguson

'[Ancelotti] is a brilliant appointment,' Ferguson said. 'I've said all along we want a world class manager at Everton - and we've got one.

'I've had a word with me and I'm still in a job! I can't wait to start working with him.

[Ancelotti] came into the changing room after the game. He made a lovely speech - everyone is onboard and we're all looking forward to starting work on Monday.'

The former Napoli boss watched Everton's match against Arsenal from the stands at Goodison Park alongside majoirity shareholder Farhad Moshiri after being confirmed as the Toffees' new manager.

Ancelotti waves at the Everton fans after taking his seat in the directors' box at Goodison

Ancelotti flew in to Liverpool from Italy on a private jet on Saturday morning and Everton made the official announcement of his appointment at 11.20am.

The 60-year-old smiled and waved at the waiting fans as he arrived at the stadium some 45 minutes before kick-off.

Flanked by Everton chairman Bill Kenwright and owner Moshiri, Ancelotti then took in the game.

He was sat just a couple of rows in front of the new Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta.

Ancelotti has agreed a four-and-a-half year contract with the club until June 2024.

Everton have been searching for a new manager since the sacking of Silva on December 5, in the wake of a 5-2 Merseyside derby defeat to Liverpool that left the team down in 18th place.

Ancelotti watched the game alongside chairman Bill Kenwright and owner Farhad Moshiri

The performance will have given him plenty of room for thought after Everton failed to register a shot on target over 90 minutes.

He will get down to work on Monday morning and his first game in charge will be a home game against Burnley - a good opportunity to give the fans a late Christmas present and help lift them up the table.

Ferguson will remain on Ancelotti's staff and his son Davide will also come in as part of the coaching alterations.