Gerard Deulofeu believes Watford must forget about their dreadful start to the season and focus on rectifying it by securing Premier League survival.

The top flight’s bottom club have won only once all season, sacked two managers and sit six points from safety ahead of Sunday’s clash with Manchester United.

Hornets winger Deulofeu admits individual and collective performances have been unacceptable but feels there is still time to make amends under new boss Nigel Pearson.

“It’s not enough – my individual performance and also the team performance,” said the Spaniard, according to his club’s website.

“We are in a really bad situation and we have to change it, but what I have to say is it’s not about how we started the season, it’s about how we finish it.

“We have time to change and for me to improve my individual statistics and help the team.”

Gerard Deulofeu is determined to transform Watford´s fortunes (Aaron Chown/PA)

Watford boss Pearson was brought in following the dismissals of Spaniards Javi Gracia and Quique Sanchez Flores.

His tenure began with a 2-0 loss at leaders Liverpool last weekend and he is set for another tough test when Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s United side visit Vicarage Road.

Deulofeu, who is part of a squad which has not won on home soil in the league since April, has been impressed with the early impact made by former Leicester, Hull and Derby boss Pearson and is eager to play in a more attack-minded team.

“We are all really happy with the coach because he likes to be really organised and he controls everything,” said Deulofeu.

“He has good organisation outside the pitch but also inside the pitch, and that’s the main thing. He wants to press high and play in the other part of the pitch, and that’s what I like.

“Earlier in the season we defended a lot and with the quality of players we have I think we have to go forward, press high and put the other team in difficulty.”

In-form United travel to Hertfordshire with a top-four spot firmly in their sights on the back of six league games unbeaten, including statement wins over Tottenham and champions Manchester City.

Deulofeu expects a stern test but feels his club’s success-starved fans “deserve” an overdue home victory.

“We know it’s going to be a really tough game but we have to play with intensity and power. We know we will have chances, even though they’re a really good team,” he said.

“We have the chance to win for the first time at home this season and we have to do it, because the fans deserve it.”