Advertisement

Harrowing footage from the middle of a raging bushfire dubbed 'The Monster' shows the moment firefighters had to escape inside a shed while a wall of flames surrounded them.

The terrifying video was captured from the frontline of the Bilpin fire, northwest of Sydney, which is part of the 460,000 hectare mega-blaze covering Gospers Mountain where firefighters worked tirelessly through the night in abominable conditions.

The incredible footage shows a wall of flame race rapidly towards properties while embers float through the deep-red sky, moving so quickly firefighters had to take shelter inside a shed before the flames passed and they made it out alive.

Rural Fire Service Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons on Saturday night said the Gospers Mountain blaze was still 'extremely active and busy' and continues to spread at a rapid rate. He estimated 'at least 10 to 20 properties' were destroyed and shared a grim warning that conditions would get worse.

Meanwhile, in South Australia, two people died and at least 54 people were injured as bushfires continued to wreak havoc just 40 minutes from Adelaide.

Thousands of volunteers will continue to battle blazes on Sunday as Scott Morrison meets with fire chiefs in Sydney after covertly landing from his Hawaiian holiday on Saturday night.

The Gospers Mountain mega blaze is continuing to tear through Bilpin (pictured), northwest of Sydney, with firefighters expected to work tirelessly through the night as conditions are not expected to ease

More properties are under threat in Bilpin and Bells Line of Road into the night while firefighters were seen battling the flames

Harrowing footage taken from the frontline of the mega-fire known as 'The Monster' by locals shows the reality of the speed of the fires

RFS Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons on Saturday night said the blaze(pictured in Bilpin) is still 'extremely active and busy' and continues to spread at a rapid rate

More properties are under threat in Bilpin and Bells Line of Road into the night while a man is feared to be missing from Dargan, near Lithgow, after his home was engulfed in flames.

Commissioner Fitzsimmons said areas such as Bilpin still needed to be on high alert into Sunday as a southerly change blew through the region north-west of Sydney.

'Temperatures will drop but the humidity will rise. The vegetation, the landscape is so dry we are still seeing pretty significant fire behaviour and that is going to continue,' he said.

In a stark warning that the crisis could last months, he added: 'We will not get on top of these fires until we get some decent rain'.

Towns around Lithgow were impacted by an ember attack in the afternoon, either damaging or completely destroying dozens of properties.

Desperate police scrambled to get people out of their homes and to safety as the huge mega blaze threatened 20,000 lives.

Fire crews and police spent Saturday door-knocking and warning residents of the imminent danger and urging them to leave, as between 10 to 20 homes were destroyed.

But defiant residents remained at their properties, using their garden hose and buckets to attempt to save their houses, despite the fire destroying an area six times the size of Singapore.

Horses are seen in a paddock as the Gospers Mountain Fire impacts Bilpin, northwest of Sydney, on Saturday

At one point the blaze moved so quickly the firefighters had to take shelter inside a shed while flames surrounded them (pictured)

Chilling footage was captured from the frontline of the fires, shows just how rapidly the fire has been moving towards properties

Fire crews and police spent Saturday door-knocking and warning residents of the imminent danger and urging them to leave

A large bushfire is seen burning scarily close to homes in Bargo, southwest of Sydney, on Saturday afternoon

On Saturday afternoon, police were seen pulling people out of their homes as the flames inched closer, with footage captured by Seven News showing officers running to houses.

Five firefighters were injured on Saturday, with three suffering smoke inhalation and breathing issues, one treated for heat exhaustion and one was hit by a car in thick smoke.

Go-pro footage captured by Sydney Morning Herald photographer Nick Moir showed the moment the Fire and Rescue NSW officer stumbled after he was hit by a car in the heavy smoke in the middle of Gospers Mountain fire.

'My understanding is he's okay, there may be a fracture but we're not sure yet,' Commissioner Fitzsimmons told reporters.

While conditions are expected to remain dire overnight, favourable weather conditions are beginning on Sunday and should allow firefighters to try and get fires under-control before the heat returns later in the week.

As of 1am Sunday just two fires remained at emergency level, the Kerry Ridge bushfire in the Wollemi National Park, and the Upper Turon Road fire in Palmers Oaky near Lithgow.

There are still eight fires at a Watch and Act threat level, including the Gospers Mountain mega-fire, the Green Wattle Creek fire on the outskirts of Sydney and the Tianjara and Currowan fires in the Shoalhaven.

The Gospers Mountain mega blaze is moving rapidly at Bells Line of Road, northwest of Sydney, with the Rural Fire Service predicting a grim night on Saturday

The Gospers Mountain Fire is seen impacting a property in Bilpin, northwest of Sydney, as the blaze remains out-of-control on Saturday

NSW Rural Fire Service crews fight the Gospers Mountain Fire as it impacts a structure at Bilpin, northwest of Sydney on Saturday

A southerly wind of up to 90km/h began rolling through the southern coast of NSW on Saturday afternoon, hitting Sydney at 5pm causing the fires to pick up speed.

While the cool change could be seen as a nice reprieve, Commissioner Fitzsimmons said as long as the state is in drought, the fires will continue to wreak havoc.

What is a fire-generated thunderstorm? A fire-generated thunderstorm occurs when clouds form from the intense heat of a fire. The rising, turbulent air draws in cooler air and causes lightning, winds and sometimes rain. But the rain does not fall directly over the fire, with the lightning causing further damage elsewhere as it can set off more fires.

'We will not get on top of these fires until we get some decent rain, we have said that for weeks and months,' he said.

The Currowan and Tianjara fires in the Shoalhaven were so powerful they caused fire-generated thunderstorms which happen when rising, turbulent air draws in cooler air and causes lightning, high winds and sometimes rain - but not directly over the blazes.

'This is a very dangerous situation. Monitor the conditions around you and take appropriate action,' RFS wrote on Twitter.

One of the fire-caused thunderstorms brought a splash of rain to Bargo, south of Sydney and prompted firefighters to dance and cheer with joy as they felt the first drops of water fall from the sky.

On Saturday, 'The Monster' continued to rage as temperatures soared to 40C and strong westerly winds whipped across the fireground, with the fire in the Wollemi National Park merging with other fires.

It also spawned new fires including the Grose Valley fire which is coming from the northeast to threaten the Blue Mountains suburbs of Mount Victoria and Blackheath.

NSW Rural Fire Services Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons said about 8.30pm there were still 120 fires burning across the State.

In this raw GoPro footage, @nampix is on the front line of the Gospers Mountain 'mega fire' at Bells Line of Road. About 20 seconds in, a firefighter from Fire and Rescue NSW stumbles after being hit by a vehicle in the heavy smoke. Photos: https://t.co/XwY7LkU1Vx #NSWfires pic.twitter.com/JDBQT9RRlT — The Sydney Morning Herald (@smh) December 21, 2019

Police were seen running up to houses and pulling people out as the flames inched closer to properties in Lithgow

Horses in a paddock as the Gospers Mountain Fire impacts Bilpin as conditions are expected to worsen across much of the state

A chilling satellite image of New South Wales shows fires south of Sydney in Shoalhaven

The Currowan and Tianjara fires in the Shoalhaven were so powerful that they caused fire-generated thunderstorms which happen when rising, turbulent air draws in cooler air and causes lightning, high winds and sometimes rain - but not directly over the blazes

Commissioner Fitzsimmons said areas such as Bilpin (pictured) still needed to be on high alert into Sunday as a southerly change blew through the region north-west of Sydney

An record number 4,000 volunteers from the NSW Rural Fire Service were on the ground as they bravely kept the death toll at zero despite catastrophic conditions.

Another 6,000 members of the emergency services have been fighting the fires as four firefighters suffered heat exhaustion and another sustained burns to his hands and face.

A chilling satellite image of New South Wales shows fires south of Sydney in Shoalhaven.

Other towns across NSW were issued with the terrifying warning it is now 'too late to leave' as firefighters endured one of the worst bushfire days yet.

Residents in the Blue Mountains were warned on Saturday morning it would be time to evacuate as the fires inch closer to homes.

Firefighters stare down a raging bushfire at Bilpin in NSW's Blue Mountains (pictured), next to a major road and dangerously close to homes

The Bilpin fire, on the outskirts of Sydney, is threatening homes and communities (pictured) as firefighters struggle to contain the blaze

Chris Hemsworth and Elsa Pataky raise eyebrows with Byron Bay locals as 'a fleet of water trucks' for their '$1million garden' arrive at their new mega-mansion amid bushfire and drought crisis Chris Hemsworth and his wife Elsa Pataky have raised eyebrows after 'a fleet of water trucks' arrived at their $20million mega-mansion. The trucks have reportedly been arriving to tend to a garden worth $1million at their new home in Broken Head near Byron Bay - as Australia battles through intense drought and harsh water restrictions in much of New South Wales. A macadamia nut farmer estimated water costs would set the Hollywood power couple back 'millions of dollars'. Daily Mail Australia has reached out to Chris' representatives for comment in relation to the claims. Thor blimey! Chris Hemsworth, 36, and Elsa Pataky, 43, have raised eyebrows with locals as 'a fleet of water trucks' for their '$1million garden' arrived at their $20million mega-mansion in Broken Head, near Byron Bay, Australia A macadamia nut farmer estimated water costs would set the Hollywood power couple back 'millions of dollars'. 'I wish I had millions of dollars to buy that amount of water, all the demand (from the bushfire crisis) has put the prices through the roof,' the farmer told The Sydney Morning Herald. 'I've seen his gardens - it's a green, lush oasis in there,' the farmer added. Byron Shire is under level one water restrictions as of December 7, which comes with a range of rules for urban and rural residents. The restrictions bar people from using irrigations systems for more than 15 minutes a day and lawns and gardens can only be watered for one hour a day. Chris, 36, and Elsa, 43, have also however been doing their part to support local firefighters. 'I wish I had millions of dollars to buy that amount of water': A farmer estimated that water costs would set the Hollywood power couple back 'millions of dollars', when speaking to The Sydney Morning Herald on Saturday. Pictured: an aerial view of the mega-mansion

Evacuation centres opened in Bomaderry, Sanctuary Point, ulladulla and Batemans Bay for those in the Shoalhaven area after residents in the are were told to stay on alert.

On Saturday night, a Big Bash League game between the Sydney Thunder and Adelaide Strikers had to be stopped half-way through due to thick smoke at Manuka Oval in Canberra.

The issue of players' visibility and health was discussed during the pre-match medical briefing but officials decided it was good to begin.

However, wind continued to push smoke into the ground and conditions got worse so play was stopped at 9.14pm.

The southerly wind change caused thick smoke and strong winds at Sydney Airport, causing major delays of more than an hour for both the international and domestic terminals.

Southerly winds swept through the state on Saturday evening and made it too difficult for planes to land or take-off, Nine News reported.

Rain begins to fall on the Green Wattle Creek fire near Bargo tonight, Mikaela Kramer from the Glenbrook-Lapstone crew dances a jig or joy @GuardianAus pic.twitter.com/PKItfTLlph — Mikearoo (@mpbowers) December 21, 2019

A NSW Rural Fire Service firefighter is seen fighting the Gospers Mountain Fire as it impacts properties at Bilpin on Saturday

A water bombing helicopter battles the Green Wattle Creek Fire as it threatens homes in Yanderra in the south west of Sydney

The raging infernos continue to close in on Sydney, with the Gospers Mountain fire now burning across 450,000 hectares

NSW Rural Fire Service crews fight the Gospers Mountain Fire as it impacts a property at Bilpin northwest of Sydney

New South Wales motorists who plan to load up their cars and drive to family and friends have been warned to cancel all travel plans.

NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian said families should avoid travel, as the 'unpredictable' conditions could see fires become 'very dangerous quickly'.

Christmas is likely to be cancelled for the hundreds of Australians forced to flee their homes, and others have been told not to risk travelling to see friends or family.

'We know it might be stressful to change your plans. We would much rather everybody was safe and not in harm's way.'

New South Wales Fire crews are still mourning the loss of two brave volunteers who died after battling the Green Wattle Creek fire on Thursday evening.

Andrew O'Dwyer, 36, a father-of-three and Geoffrey Keaton, 32, also a father, had courageously fought the fire as part of the Horsley Park RFS bridage.

On Saturday morning, the brigade went back out to tackle the blazing inferno, dedicating their battle to their fallen mates.

'In true Horsley Park spirit, our crew are heading out today as part of a Cumberland Zone Strike Team in memory of Geoff and Andrew,' the team wrote on its Facebook page.

'To all crews in the field today, stay safe and look after each other.'

NSW Rural Fire Service crews fight the Gospers Mountain Fire as it impacts a structure at Bilpin, northwest of Sydney on Saturday

On Saturday night, a Big Bash League game between the Sydney Thunder and Adelaide Strikers had to be stopped half-way through due to thick smoke (pictured)

The issue of players' visibility and health was discussed during the pre-match medical briefing but officials decided it was good to begin

Play is suspended as bushfire smoke covers the ground during the Big Bash League match between the Sydney Thunder and the Adelaide Strikers at Manuka Oval

A property is lost as The Gospers Mountain Fire impacts, at Bilpin, north-west of Sydney on Saturday night

Meanwhile, at least 54 people were injured on Saturday at the Cudlee Creek fire in South Australia, 23 of those including firefighters and two police officers.

Two people were declared dead after a night of raging bushfires in South Australia, and hundreds of homes are on the brink of destruction.

One resident died in the Adelaide Hills as a fire ripped through the area, and another in a car crash in Lameroo.

At least 23 firefighters have been taken to hospital with injuries after battling more than 100 fires across South Australia, some just 40 minutes from the centre of Adelaide.

As of Saturday 15 houses have been confirmed to have been destroyed, along with 28 other buildings and 16 cars.

Two blazes on Kangaroo Island at Menzies and Duncan have burned more than 9,500 hectares and are still burning uncontrolled.

South Australian Premier Steven Marshall told reporters: 'There has been a further death in the Charleston area in Adelaide.

'This is of course on top of the death which occurred in Lameroo. This was a result of a car crash in the Lameroo area which ignited the fire which was in that area yesterday.'

'My fear is this is only the tip of the iceberg. It is going to a real scene of devastation, especially for those people in the Adelaide Hills who have been most affected to date.'

John Glatz, the former Oakbank Racing Club chairman, is in an induced coma in an intensive care unit, ABC reported.

At least 54 people were injured on Saturday at the Cudlee Creek fire in South Australia (pictured), 23 of those including firefighters and two police officers

A view of a building destroyed by a fire in Lobethal in the Adelaide Hills as residents helped to put out spot fires

Smoke from a bushfire is seen near Gumeracha in the Adelaide Hills (pictured) on Saturday

A view of a building destroyed by a fire in Lobethal in the Adelaide Hills, Adelaide on Saturday

Properties have been lost as the Gospers Mountain Fire continued to ravage homes north-west of Sydney on Saturday

He is thought to have suffered burns to 60 per cent of his body as he stayed behind in a desperate attempt to save his horses and home.

In Victoria, after days of blistering heat a cool change has brought dangerous dry lightning, increasing the fire danger for firefighters tackle more than 100 blazes across the state.

Fire Services Commissioner Craig Lapsley said the 21,000 hectare Grampians bushland fire was so intense it had 'created its own weather', triggering lightning and spot fires.

On Saturday morning, a 47-year-old man was charged with lighting three bushfires in the Roxburgh Park area on Friday night.

He has been charged with 11 charges including intentionally cause bush-fire and criminal damage by fire.

The charges also relate to a series of fires dating back to October this year.

Fires in Victoria's East Gippsland region that have been burning for weeks have flared up after a cool change, prompting emergency warnings for nearby towns.

Residents of the small community of Brookville - about 390 kilometres east of Melbourne - were told on Saturday it was too late to leave their homes and to shelter indoors.

A Woodside resident battles a fire (pictured) as it crosses Ridge Road at Woodside in the Adelaide Hills in Adelaide on Friday

Other towns across NSW have been issued with the terrifying warning that it is now 'too late to leave' as firefighters endure one of the worst bushfire days yet. Pictured: a water bombing helicopter in Yanderra, south-west of Sydney

A burnt Christmas decoration lies on the ground (pictured) in front of a house recently destroyed by bushfires on the outskirts of the town of Bargo on Saturday

Residents in Bilpin (pictured) have been told to evacuate as the Gospers Mountain fire reaches emergency levels on Saturday

A resident (pictured) uses a commercial watering machine to hose down his property as the Grose Valley Fire approaches Bilpin on Saturday

'You are in danger and need to act immediately to survive,' the warning reads.

On Friday 110 fires were already burning, but another 33 started in the early hours of Saturday morning.

A cool change swept across the state on Friday night, bringing dry lighting and an increase in fire danger to the area, where bushfires have been burning since November 21.

A similar warning for nearby Stirling, Tambo Crossing and Wattle Circle was downgraded to watch and act level on Saturday evening after a bushfire at Tambo Crossing, which is now almost 37,000 hectares in size, began 'creating its own weather'.

Residents of the largely farming community have been told to leave while they can.

'Don't wait, leaving now is the safest option - conditions may change and get worse very quickly. Emergency Services may not be able to help you if you decide to stay,' the new warning reads.

The Cudlee Creek fire destroys a plot of land at Woodside (pictured), just 40 minutes outside of Adelaide, on Friday

A firefighter struggles to tackle a fire in the NSW town of Bargo on Friday evening, which is reported to have destroyed more than 50 homes

Surrounding roads and tracks have been closed and residents have been told to avoid entering forested areas as the situation may change rapidly due to spot fires.

A relief centre has been set up at the Omeo Memorial Hall, 60 kilometres north, for those who have already left.

Residents in neighbouring Ensay have also been told to leave their homes, while a number of townships have been told to monitor conditions on the VicEmergency website.

Authorities said the fires are in steep and inaccessible terrain, making it hard for firefighters on the ground and in the air to reach.

In the state's west, residents of Lexton, near Ballarat, were told to evacuate overnight after the cool change threatened to push a nearby bushfire towards the town.

The warning was lifted on Saturday morning and there is no current threat to communities.

'Fire crews, aided by heavy machinery have managed to significantly slow the spread of the fire,' the advice message says.

Firemen inspect a house recently destroyed by bushfires (pictured) on the outskirts of the town of Bargo on Saturday

Fires swept areas of Lexton, Victoria on Friday (pictured) as conditions worsened thanks to high temperatures