A Christmas Carol's Lenny Rush, has insisted that 'anybody can play a role' regardless of whether they have a disability or not.

The 10-year-old actor, from Essex, who has a rare form of dwarfism, appeared on Good Morning Britain today where he spoke about his upcoming role as Tiny Tim in the BBC series

He said that he's 'very proud' of what he's accomplished and explained that disability should not be a factor when considering somebody for a part.

He feels that all actors should have 'the same opportunities' before revealing he;d love to eventually play a 'crime boss'.

Lenny was praised by viewers who insisted he had 'won Christmas' and said that he was an 'uplifting' and 'impressive' young man.

A Christmas Carol's Lenny Rush, 10, from Essex, has insisted that 'anybody can play a role' regardless of whether they have a disability or not

Lenny explained on GMB how he suffers from Spondyloepiphyseal Dysplasia congenita (SEDc), which affects bone growth while causing aches and pains

Speaking of his role, he said: 'Yeah I am very proud, but I think disability or not, I think anybody can play a role.

'I think its good for people with disabilities to have the same opportunities as other people - because why not? I’d love to play some sort of crime boss.'

Viewers quickly took to Twitter to praise Lenny, with one writing: 'What a lovely kid, I wish him all the best in his career and look forward to seeing him in future movies. He's absolutely brilliant. His parents should be so proud, they've raised a great kid.'

'Such an uplifting and inspiring young man! #lennyrush', said another.

What is Spondyloepiphyseal Dysplasia congenita (SEDc)? Spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita is an inherited bone growth disorder that results in short stature (dwarfism), skeletal abnormalities, and problems with vision and hearing. This condition affects the bones of the spine and the ends of long bones in the arms and legs. Congenita indicates that the condition is present from birth. People with spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita have short stature from birth, with a very short trunk and neck and shortened limbs. Their hands and feet, however, are usually average-sized. Adult height ranges from 3 feet to just over 4 feet. Abnormal curvature of the spine becomes more severe during childhood. Source: NIH

'OK, Lenny Rush has just won Christmas as far as I’m concerned', another raved.

Lenny explained how he suffers from Spondyloepiphyseal Dysplasia congenita (SEDc), which affects bone growth while causing aches and pains, as well as a cleft palate that returned after being operated on as a child.

He said that he has always been interested in acting, and says it was 'incredible' seeing himself in his forthcoming TV series.

Lenny was praised by viewers who insisted he had 'won Christmas' and said that he was an 'uplifting' and 'impressive' young man

'It takes so much work to get into it and then when you watch it you're so proud of it,' said Lenny.

He went on: 'I've sort of always been interested in acting, but Mum signed us in for a documentary called "Our Family" and it's got my whole family.

'I did that and loved being in front of the camera, so I went to an acting school and signed up with an agency called Quirky Kids'.

He said that he has always been interested in acting, and says it was 'incredible' seeing himself in his forthcoming TV series

As well as the show, Lenny has appeared as Tiny Tim at London's Old Vic Theatre in the stage production of Jack Thorne's adaptation of 'A Christmas Carol'.

Speaking of the difference between the two, he said: 'In the theatre, you have that immediate reaction.

'But with film, you don't know how it's gonna come out and if audiences are going to like it or not like it.'

Viewers quickly took to Twitter to praise Lenny, with one writing that he wished him 'all the luck' in his future projects

When quizzed on how he coped with acting alongside such big stars, such as Stephen Graham and Guy Pearce, he admitted: 'I don't know to be honest'

More viewers praised the young actor, with one raving: '#lennyrush on @GMBWhat an impressive, nice lad.'

'Lenny you are a shining star', said another.

A third wrote: 'Omg what a cute young man.... so grown up his parents must be so so proud.... happy Christmas young man.'