She's taken a break from her busy schedule to enjoy a pre-Christmas break with her beau Chris Hughes.

And Jesy Nelson put on a racy display as she lounged inside their luxury festive cabin while not wearing any underwear on Saturday morning.

The Little Mix star, 28, smiled as she realised the cheeky former Love Islander, 26, was filming her while they sat in bed as she donned just a T-shirt with nothing on her bottom half - with a duvet just about protecting her modesty.

Scroll down for video

Relaxed: Jesy Nelson, 28, put on a racy display as she lounged inside a luxury festive cabin not wearing any underwear with her beau Chris Hughes, 26, on Saturday morning

Chris looked very pleased with himself as the camera span back to his face to show him laughing as his girlfriend laid next to him and he rested his arm on her leg.

Jesy also shared several clips of her beau excitedly showing her around the stylish cabin which was decorated with huge candy canes.

In Jesy's clip Chris was seen running across a bridge and even stopped to do a little jump as he made it half way across.

On his way Chris inspected candy cane decorations along the side and appeared extremely impressed as he told Jesy 'come inside my house'.

Joker: The Little Mix star smiled as she realised the cheeky former Love Islander was filming her while they sat in bed

Loved-up: Jesy and Chris couldn't stop smiling at each other in the clips shared on Instagram

As he got to the door Chris told Jesy there is fire wood and made his way towards the bed which had a huge platter filled with sweets with his name spelled out.

More decorations are also seen inside, with a stunning garland complete with red baubles covering an arch where the bed was.

As Jesy moved her phone around a stunning copper bath which looked out to the trees is also seen, with Chris saying 'it will fit the two of us'.

Feeling festive: The cabin was completely decked out and looked amazing with a stunning garland complete with red baubles covering an arch where the bed was

Chris also shared several glimpses of the trip, which the couple took with pals annd agents Rossella Castellana and TOWIE star Chris Drake.

On Friday night, the four pals played an intense game of Monopoly, which saw Chris win after everyone else ran out of money.

He proudly told his Instagram followers about his victory and explained that he had put hotels on all his properties so be was raking in the cash.

Weekend away: Chris was very excited to show Jesy their cabin and appeared extremely impressed with the decorations

Stunning: A copper bath, left, which looked out onto a balcony area was also seen in the room

And Chris also provided some musical entertainment on Sunday morning by singing the words to Little Mix's hit Salute while Jesy danced at speed.

The couple's trip comes after Chris revealed he doesn't think he will ever 'kiss anyone else again' after Jesy.

He spoke candidly about his relationship and even answered a question about his sex life in a recent interview with Fabulous Magazine.

When asked how often he has sex, Chris honestly replied: 'If I can, every day. It’s good for you!'

Sweet! On the bed was a platter filled with treats such as doughnuts and cookies placed to spell out Chris' name

Views: An outside waterfall shower looked out over a pretty view of green trees

The loved-up reality star also admitted that Jesy was the love of his life and that he admires her for being so down-to-earth after going through tough times.

His answer to which celebrity he would love to snog was also touching, with Chris being quick to name his girlfriend.

Chris answered: 'Jesy! I don’t think I’m going to kiss anyone else again. I’m only 26, so that’s a very bold statement.'