Molly Meldrum and Elton John ended their seven-year feud earlier this month.

And on Saturday, Molly, 76, revealed the phone call that reignited the spark of their complex friendship.

Speaking to the Herald Sun, the TV host said of the 72-year-old rock legend: 'The call came out of the blue. I picked up and this voice said: "How are you?"

Mates again: On Saturday, Molly Meldrum (pictured) described the phone call that ended his seven-year feud with Elton John

'I said: "Who are you?" "It's Elton," the voice at the other end said. "Oh, for f***s sake. Get real. Who is it?"' Molly asked.

Molly revealed that Elton then said: 'Listen, you silly old queen, it's me!'

The former countdown star added: 'That's when I knew it was him, and we were going to be okay.'

The pair, who famously fell out in 2012 after footage of Elton criticising Madonna during an interview with Molly accidentally went to air, reconciled last week during a private meeting in Melbourne.

Speaking to the Herald Sun, Molly said Elton (pictured) called him and said: 'Listen, you silly old queen, it's me!'

Speaking to Confidential, Molly revealed that the 'lovely' conversation happened backstage hours before Elton's Farewell Yellow Brick Road show at Rod Laver Arena.

'It was just Elton and I, talking about the old days and our wonderful friendship,' Molly said.

'We talked about when we first met, all the things we've been through, and how important our friendship is,' the Australian music icon gushed.

Molly also confirmed that Elton knew the 'interview thing' wasn't his fault- presumably referring to the airing of Elton's off-the-record comments about Madonna.

Fractured friendship: The pair, who famously fell out in 2012 after footage of Elton criticising Madonna during an interview with Molly accidentally went to air, reconciled last week during a private meeting in Melbourne. Pictured during that 2012 interview

Burying the hatchet: Speaking to Confidential, Molly revealed that the pair had a 'lovely' conversation backstage hours before Elton's Farewell Yellow Brick Road show at Rod Laver Arena. Pictured together on Seven's Sunday Night in 2012

After their meeting, Elton also took to the stage to share a heartfelt speech about Molly with his audience.

'We've had tears, we've had laughter, but we've had a friendship that's lasted so long. I don't think anyone has done more for music in Australia than Molly Meldrum,' he said to the packed-out audience.

'Molly, I love you, I thank you dearly for everything you've done for me. Bless you, he added.'