Advertisement

Shocking images have emerged of Afghan security forces 'arresting around 700 Isis fighters and family members' in Afghanistan and parading them in blatant sight.

They have been arrested or surrounded in eastern Afghanistan over the past six months, according to the Afghan government, and presented in plain view today.

The Afghan intelligence service, the National Deteriorate for Security, said at least 17 women and 159 children, most from foreign countries, are in custody.

Family members of Isis militants were allegedly arrested by the Afghan intelligence service, the National Deteriorate for Security, earlier today

More than 159 children, mostly from Pakistan, Jordan and central Asian countries, are being held in custody

There was no way to confirm that the prisoners the government presented to reporters are affiliated with the Islamic State group.

Most of the arrested IS members are from Pakistan, Jordan and central Asian countries, said an NDS officer who not be identified.

As many as 277 foreigners are among the arrested militants, he said.

The Islamic State Militants held their heads low as they gathered on a patch of grass before their arrest, earlier today. As many as 277 foreigners are among the arrested militants, according to an NDS officer

US Senator Lindsey Graham claimed President Donald Trump may reduce American troops numbers from 12,000 to 8,6000 in Afghanistan starting next year

Washington's peace envoy Zalmay Khalilzad tweeted earlier this month that IS in eastern Afghanistan has been weakened by the Taliban as well operations in the US.

US Sen. Lindsey Graham said President Donald Trump may announce an American troop drawdown from Afghanistan before the year's end, which would likely begin next year, last week.

Graham, speaking from the Afghan capital of Kabul, said the president could reduce troop numbers to 8,600, down from the current estimated 12,000.

This comes just days after Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad rejoined diplomatic talks with the Taliban which broke down three months ago.

Khalilzad said the US was 'taking a brief pause' in talks following an attack near Bagram which killed two Afghan civilians and wounded 70.

The 'arrests' (pictured) come days after Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad rejoined diplomatic talks with the Taliban. Khalilzad said he was taking a 'brief pause' in talks following an attack near Bagram which killed 70

A child looks nervous as they peer through the crowds of families which were gathered by the National Deteriorate for Security