Monique Morley has given her fans a glimpse at how she maintains her sensational figure.

The former Bachelor star, 26, took to Instagram this week to share a series of photos showing exercises targeted at toning her muscles.

She dressed up for the fitness session in a green sports bra and legging ensemble by activewear label Kate Galliano, which she matched with white trainers.

Work it honey! The Bachelor's Monique Morley took to Instagram on Wednesday to share snaps of her sensational physique in a raunchy training session

In one photo, the blonde beauty tied her hair up in a pony tail, while posing with to two heavy-looking dumbbells.

The following image showed the stunner turned around and holding a squat pose with the weights in both hands.

She followed that with a picture of herself carrying a kettlebell while doing what appeared to be a strenuous squat and lift.

Getting toned: The stunner shared a picture of herself carrying a kettlebell while doing what appeared to be a squat and lift. In her caption she said that using 'weights to define my hidden muscles'

Monique rounded out her training session by doing what appeared to be a lunges with slide boards.

She wrote in the caption: 'Thought I’d mix it up a little, usually I box 4 times a week, although I’ve been off for two - my body isn’t toned so I’ve gone to weights to define my hidden muscles.'

'Thanks to my bae for helping me with my indoor and outdoor activities at the new @virginactiveaustralia,' she added.

Working on her glutes: In another snap the blonde beauty turned around holding a squat pose with the weights in both hands

Tim and toned: Monique rounded out her training session by doing what appeared to be a lunges with slide boards

Monique made headlines earlier this year thanks to her unfiltered opinions on The Bachelor.

She was infamously booted from the show after Matt Agnew discovered she had called him a 'dog c**t' behind his back.

Despite denying the incident on the show, she has since admitted she did say it.

'I'll walk you to the car': Matt (pictured) told Monique to leave the mansion after she was unable to deny calling him a 'dog c**t' behind his back