A real-life Rapunzel with hair nearly six foot long has revealed fans often ask if they can 'sniff' it - and claims a woman's beauty lies in her locks.

Alena Kravchenko, 34, of Odessa, Ukraine, has been growing her mane since the age of five and washes it once a week, which takes around an hour.

The mother-of-twins, Valeria and Miroslava, both seven, started her Instagram page @alenuwka_longhair last year, posting incredible pictures of her luscious blonde locks in scenic backdrops to her 13.3K followers.

She claims to receive dozens of marriage proposals from men online who offer to travel abroad to see her - however Alena said she she usually laughs off such requests.

Alena Kravchenko, 34, of Odessa, Ukraine, has been growing her mane since the age of five and washes it once a week, which takes around an hour

The hair model revealed fans often ask if they can 'sniff' her 6ft long mane - and claims a woman's beauty lies in her locks

Alena has been obsessed with keeping her hair long since she was a child, taking on board her mother's advice that a long braid 'adorns a woman'.

And though she has a trim now and again, she has no intentions of cutting it any time soon - despite the fact she sometimes steps on it.

'From childhood, my mother told me how long a braid adorns a woman, her words live in my heart and soul throughout life,' she said, adding that her 1.8m long hair is 'the manifestation' of her soul.

'When people see the length of my hair, they can't hide their enthusiastic looks and emotions, it's very nice. Also, many come up and say how unusual and beautiful it is nowadays.

The mother-of-twins, Valeria and Miroslava, both seven, started her Instagram page @alenuwka_longhair last year, posting incredible pictures of her luscious blonde locks in scenic backdrops to her 13.3K followers

'My subscribers are the best and always delight me with positive and good comments addressed to me. The most unusual comments are a request to sniff my hair.

'A lot of men admire my hair, want to meet, travel, invite me to visit their country... often I don't answer messages so as not to give a man hope.'

Alena has no plans to grow her hair longer, but said the most important thing is that she 'stands out against ordinary women' and maintains her 'personality and originality'.

She washes her hair once a week, which takes her about an hour each time, and uses both natural and professional haircare products to make her hair strong and frizz-free.

Alena has no plans to grow her hair longer, but said the most important thing is that she 'stands out against ordinary women' and maintains her 'personality and originality'

To keep her hair out of her way, Alena usually braids it. Pictured here wearing her long locks in a bun on her head

Alena also combs her hair twice a day to get rid of any tangles and trims her ends every six months to keep her locks healthy and strong.

Speaking about her haircare process, Alena said: 'I usually braid my hair, make a bun.

'I use both natural products and hair care products, as well as professional products.

'I trim the ends twice a year, the last time I did it was in July, where I had 15cm cut off.'

Alena washes her hair once a week, which takes her about an hour each time, and uses both natural and professional haircare products to make her hair strong and frizz-free

Alena combs her hair twice a day to get rid of any tangles and trims her ends every six months to keep her locks healthy and strong

Alena stressed the importance of loving and protecting your hair to allow it grow and stay radiant

Alena experiences no discomfort with her long hair but said she does accidentally step on her locks from time to time.

She added: 'Given that the braid grew with me all my life, my body is used to it.'

In a word of advice on how to grow long hair, Alena stressed the importance of loving and protecting your hair to allow it grow and stay radiant.

According to Alena, if you protect your hair and treat it with love, it will be 'healthy and beautiful' in return

Alena experiences no discomfort with her long hair but said she does accidentally step on her locks from time to time

She said: 'The main secret in long beautiful hair is a great desire to have such beauty. You cannot doubt it for a moment.

'How much you love and protect your hair (equals) how much it will be healthy and beautiful in return.

'All women need to remember that at all times the real beauty of women was evaluated precisely by the beauty and length of her hair (sic).'