Rose Byrne will soon hit the stage with her partner, American actor Bobby Cannavale, in a modern retelling of the Greek Tragedy, Medea.

And in the lead up to their stage play, Bobby, 49, took to Instagram on Saturday to share a fun Christmas selfie of himself with his Australian love, 40.

In the selfie, the talented couple smiled as they showed off their hilarious festive sweaters.

'Happy Holidays!' Bobby Cannavale and Rose Byrne got into the festive spirit by wearing fun Christmas sweaters as shared by The Irishman actor on his Instagram on Saturday

The Bridesmaids actress wore a red pullover that appeared to have Santa Claus wearing red glasses.

Meanwhile, The Irishman star dared to ruffle feathers with his jumper featuring what seemed to be Jesus riding a shark on a giant wave.

In the caption Bobby wished his legion of followers a 'Happy Holidays!'.

Acting together: Bobby and Rose recent revealed in a joint interview with Vanity Fair that they are very conscious of their family life when taking on new acting roles in the modern retelling of the Greek Tragedy, Medea

He also proudly spruiked the dates of their limited run play at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in New York, where they are based with the two young sons.

This comes after Bobby and Rose recent revealed in a joint interview with Vanity Fair that they are very conscious of their family life when taking on new acting roles.

'You have the kids, the kids are getting bigger, and you don't want to spend the time apart,' Bobby told the publication.

What drew them in: Rose noted that the convenient location of where Medea was being produced was what ultimately lured them in. '[Bobby] was like, "We should do this. This is exciting. You know - this is 10 minutes from our house"

In the interview Rose noted that the convenient location was what ultimately lured them in.

'[Bobby] was like, "We should do this. This is exciting. You know - this is 10 minutes from our house,"' she told Vanity Fair.

Rose and Bobby began dating in 2012, the couple share two young sons - Rocco, three, and Rafa, age two. Bobby also has an older son, Jake, 24, who he shares with his ex wife, screenwriter Jenny Lumet.