Advertisement

Love Island presenter Caroline Flack hit her boyfriend over the head with a lamp while he was sleeping after looking at text messages which made her think he was having an affair, a court was told today.

Flack, 40, and her partner Lewis Burton were both allegedly covered in blood when police arrived at their flat in Islington, North London, on December 12 - with one officer describing the chaotic scene as 'like a horror movie'.

The ITV host was accused of 'going mad' and smashing a glass at 5am - with former tennis player Mr Burton saying in a 999 call that she 'tried to kill me, mate' and called him an 'a***hole', Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court heard.

Mr Burton was said to have been 'almost begging the operator to send help' with his face 'covered in blood', while Flack - who has now been replaced as Love Island host by Laura Whitmore - allegedly had two cuts to her wrist.

After being taken into custody, Flack – whom the court heard was 'manipulative' towards Mr Burton and accused him of ruining her life - allegedly flipped over a table and had to be restrained on the ground by police.

Flack has now been released on bail until her trial on March 4 next year. She allegedly said 'I did it' and claimed under caution that she would kill herself - also admitting she 'whacked him round the head', the court was told.

Her boyfriend was allegedly left with 'significant head injuries' and claimed in the 999 call that Flack had 'cracked my head open', but the court heard Flack wants to 'spend time' with him over the Christmas and New Year period.

But a judge refused an application to remove bail conditions preventing her from contacting Mr Burton directly or indirectly and from attending his address - which left both Flack and Mr Burton with their head in their hands.

Flack broke down into floods of tears after she entered the court lobby this morning, and was sobbing as a friend supported her. She also cried again when she sat in the dock - and pleaded not guilty to common assault.

Love Island host Caroline Flack leaves Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court in North London today with two police officers

Flack leaves Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court today after she pleaded not guilty to assaulting boyfriend Lewis Burton.

Flack leaves Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court today following the hearing. She is next due to appear in March

Caroline Flack arrives at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court in North London today

Flack, 40, was charged with common assault after a 5am bust-up at her flat earlier this month

Flack arrives at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court today (left), where she appeared in the dock (right, in a court sketch)

Flack (centre) is escorted by police as she arrives at Highbury Magistrates' Court in North London this morning

Flack (pictured today) and her partner were both allegedly covered in blood when police arrived at their flat

Earlier, Flack, wearing high black leather boots and a black coat, walked into the court with an unidentified woman amid a large group of photographers. She arrived shortly after Mr Burton, who was wearing a winter parka coat.

Arriving in the courtroom, Flack walked past the packed public gallery accompanied by a police officer and a member of her legal team, and wiped her eyes as she sat down before confirming her details.

The court gallery was full of observers and supporters, including Mr Burton. Flack appeared before District Judge Julia Newton and spoke only to confirm her date of birth and address. She gave her nationality as British.

Paul Morris, defending, said Mr Burton was not a victim of assault and that he did not support the prosecution. He said: 'Mr Burton has never supported this prosecution. He is not the victim, as he would say, he was a witness.'

But Katie Weiss, prosecuting, replied: 'Mr Burton is a victim, he received significant injury to his head.' Ms Weiss added that the Crown are pursuing the case. Flack sat in the dock with her hands to her mouth.

Wrapped up in a black coat and scarf, Flack appeared distressed throughout the hearing – and the court went silent as District Judge Newton looked through the court papers.

A police officer helps Flack get into court today as she arrived with an unknown woman (right)

Flack, wearing high black leather boots and a black coat, arrives at the court in London today

Flack broke down in tears as she sat in the dock. Holding her hand in front of her eyes, she sniffed. The judge gave Flack's legal team until January 20 next year to provide further evidence to the court.

Mr Morris continued: 'He would not suggest that the injuries are significant in the way the prosecution submit.' Ms Weiss said the trial would use body-worn footage from the police officers at the scene and a 999 call.

Flack's solicitor applied to have a bail condition banning her from talking to Mr Burton lifted. Mr Morris said: 'They had been in a relationship all of this year and he appears in court today to support her and they remain a couple.

'She wants to spend time with her partner. If the conditions were lifted there would be no concerns. It's not an irrelevant point, it's Christmas, it's New Year, she's suffered enough.'

Flack began to cry into her hand as Mr Morris spoke. 'She is in the public eye - this case has been scrutinised, she will conduct herself properly,' Mr Morris added.

Outlining the prosecution case, Ms Weiss told the court: 'At 5.25am on the 12 December he (Lewis Burton) made an allegation against his girlfriend Caroline Flack. Police then made their way to the address.

'Police then knocked on the door eight minutes later and it was opened by both of them. Both were covered in blood. And in fact one of the police officers likened the scene to a horror movie.

Flack arrives at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court in London today charged with assault

Flack arrives at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court to face the assault charge this morning

Flack gets out of the back of a car after arriving at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court today

'He (Burton) said he had been asleep and had been hit over the head by Caroline by a lamp. It cut his head and his face was covered in blood. He said that Caroline smashes a glass and caused injuries.

'She had two lacerations to her left wrist. She took his phone while he was sleeping. She had seen text messages which made her think he was cheating. In the 999 call the complainant said quite clearly that his girlfriend was beating him up.

'He asked repeatedly for help. He was almost begging the operator to send help. He said: She is going mad, breaking stuff. I've just woken up. She's cracked my head open.'

The defendant is calling him an a***hole saying 'It's all your fault, you've ruined my life', calling him an a***hole repeatedly.' He said 'you've cracked my head open'. He told the operator 'she tried to kill me mate'.

The prosecutor told court that police body worn cameras revealed their first encounter with the couple. Her lawyer Mr Morris told the court that Flack and Mr Burton are still a couple.

Ms Weiss continued: 'It is clear the defendant is manipulative towards him. She calls him an a***hole and vile and says he has ruined her life when she has ruined her own life by committing the assault.'

Ms Weiss told the court Flack was disruptive while in police custody. She said: 'Her behaviour gets worse, she flips over a table and then has to be restrained on the ground.'

Mr Burton arrives at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court in North London this morning

Flack was charged with common assault at the flat she shares with her partner Mr Burton (pictured) in Islington, North London

Mr Burton is photographed as he arrives at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court this morning

The prosecutor added that Flack had 'flouted' her bail condition not to have any direct or indirect contact with Mr Burton. 'She breached this almost immediately by posting a message on Instagram by writing to my boyfriend I love you,' Ms Weiss said.

Judge Newton adjourned the hearing for a 'risk assessment' to be carried out on Mr Burton.

After the hearing, Flack took to Instagram to say: 'It's going to be a relief when I am able to give my side of the story'

Flack put her head in her hands as the judge refused an application to remove bail conditions preventing her from contacting Mr Burton directly or indirectly and from attending his address.

Mr Burton, in the public gallery, also put his hand to his face, before the couple left the courtroom separately. She was released on conditional bail before her trial on March 4, which is expected to last a day-and-a-half.

District Judge Newton told her: 'You pleaded not guilty to a charge of assault by beating. We have heard the application to vary bail conditions but the risk remains a medium, albeit reduced from a high risk.

'The bail conditions will remain the same as they are necessary to protect Mr Burton.' One woman, who sat in the public gallery during the hearing, heckled Ms Weiss as she left court by saying 'shame on you' repeatedly.

After the hearing, Flack took to Instagram to say: 'Thankfully I know a lot of you will not believe all that you read following today's court hearing... Thank you for your continued support and love... It's going to be a relief when I am able to give my side of the story, when I'm allowed to.'

It comes after Flack and Mr Burton unfollowed each other on Instagram - and the presenter said she did not know 'where to go' or 'who to trust' in an emotional Instagram post yesterday.

She wrote: 'This is the worst time of my life. I don't know where to go to. Where to look. Who to trust. Or who I even am.'

Caroline Flack and Lewis Burton leave Sexy Fish restaurant in London's Mayfair on October 16

Flack no longer has Mr Burton as a contact on Instagram

Mr Burton also no longer has Flack as a contact on Instagram

Miss Flack said she did not know 'where to go' or 'who to trust' in an Instagram post yesterday

Blood drops on the front door of Flack's London flat following the incident earlier this month on December 12

Police were called to the 40-year-old's flat in the early hours of December 12 after reports a man had been assaulted. Flack was charged the following day.

Laura Whitmore, pictured on December 2, was announced as the new Love Island host

Model and ex-tennis player Mr Burton has defended Flack on Instagram describing her as 'loyal and kind', and criticised the 'witch hunt' following the incident.

The couple, who became an item this summer, reportedly remain together and are going to work through this together.

Following the incident Flack stepped down from the upcoming winter series of Love Island in South Africa.

On Friday ITV confirmed that TV presenter Laura Whitmore will replace Flack as the face of the popular ITV2 programme which sees young singletons find love in the sun.

Flack voiced her support for Miss Whitmore, who is the girlfriend of the show's narrator Iain Stirling, and told how she is going through a 'really rough time'.

The 34-year-old also paid tribute to Flack, who she said 'pushed' her to accept the role.

She said: 'I want to thank ITV for trusting me at the helm of this huge show. I wish it was in better circumstances. Caroline is a brilliant host and also a friend.

'She has been very kind to me and strongly pushed me for this role. I've watched her host every series and I know I have big boots to fill. I will try and do it justice.'

Flack, who has presented the series since 2015, wrote on Instagram that she is 'glad it's Laura'.

She added: 'Thank you for your continuous messages of support. It's a really rough time... but I'm doing all I can to keep my head above water and sort this all out.'

ITV has not confirmed whether Flack will return for the summer series next year.

Miss Whitmore has already replaced Flack in a job before, when she took over I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here! NOW! - the programme's follow on show - in 2011.

In 2018 she hosted ITV's first attempt at a winter version of Love Island, Survival Of The Fittest, also in South Africa, which included eventual Love Island winner Dani Dyer among its contestants.

It was dropped after one series amid poor ratings. Miss Whitmore has dated Stirling since 2017. Love Island begins on ITV2 on January 12.