An Alton Towers crash victim who had to have her leg amputated after the rollercoaster she was in crashed into an empty carriage has shared her joy at being able to purchase her first home.

Vicky Balch, 24, from Preston, Lancashire, who lost her right leg when The Smiler hit an empty carriage on the tracks in June 2015, has revealed that she has been able to buy her very first property with her fiancé Dino Manciocchi, 25.

The purchase comes after Ms Balch received a multi-million pound pay-out from the theme park in Staffordhshire, which is owned by Merlin Entertainments, after four-and-a-half years of 'stressful and depressing' negotiations.

Vicky Balch, 24, from Preston, Lancashire, lost her right leg when The Smiler hit an empty carriage on the tracks in June 2015

The beautician (pictured with fiancé Dino Manciocchi) has shared her joy at being able to purchase her first house

The 24-year-old shared a picture of her new set of house keys along with a card had the words 'new home' across it

Taking to her Instagram page to announce the news, Ms Balch shared a picture of her new set of house keys and a card along with the caption: 'Can't contain my excitement anymore!!!! @dinomanciocchi love you babe.'

Following the announcement, Vicky told The Sunday Mirror that she was relieved that the ordeal with the courts was finally over.

She said: 'I'm so relieved that it was all over and I'm never going to have an expert report done again.'

'The money it's not anything at all like a lottery win. The money it's all accounted for so its going on physio, prosthetics, care when I'm older, care now, It's basically all taken up with things that I need to spend it on.

'I cant just go out on a whim and buy whatever I want just because that is there for me to live the rest of my life normally.'

Ms Balch took to her Instagram account to her excitement in a message that read: 'Can't contain my excitement once more'

Ms Balch told The Sunday Mirror that the money she had received was not a 'lottery win' and said she was relieved that the ordeal with the court case was finally over

Ms Balch (left and right) was one of 16 injured when he Smiler hit an empty carriage on the tracks in June 2015.

In November, Ms Balch announced that she planned to use part of the money she had received from her court case to fund her upcoming wedding in Italy with her fiancé Dino.

Dino proposed to the beautician while the pair enjoyed a romantic retreat to Mottram Hall in Cheshire.

She later shared a photograph of her ring on Instagram along with the caption: 'Can't believe my best friend asked me to marry him Friday.'

In June 2015, Ms Balch was one of 16 people injured when the rollercoaster they were sitting in collided with another empty carriage that was stationary on the track.

Leah Washington, from Barnsley, South Yorkshire, also had her leg amputated as a result of the crash.

Ms Balch's compensation money is earmarked primarily for physio, treatments and prosthetic limbs for the rest of her life.