In the blue corner, Carlo Ancelotti. Er, actually no, it's Duncan Ferguson. And managing Arsenal today, please welcome Mikel Arteta. Wrong again. It's Freddie Ljungberg.

The Premier League has never seen anything like it. One new manager sat up in the directors' box assessing the team he has taken over, yes. But two of them, sat just yards apart? How peculiar.

It used to be the case that a newly appointed coach couldn't wait to get to work. To get out there on the touchline to give his team 'the bounce' that so often happens at football clubs when there is a change in the dugout.

Mikel Arteta also watched on after being confirmed as Arsenal's new boss on Friday

Both he and new Everton boss Carlo Ancelotti took in the game from the stands

These days there seems to be a growing trend in the game - like snoods or players talking behind their hands - towards managers sitting out their first game in charge and opting instead for the comfort zone of the directors' box.

Win and the new man can nick a bit of the credit, as Sam Allardyce once did here after watching Everton beat West Ham following his appointment in November 2017.

Lose, and simply blame it on the caretaker.

To be fair to Ancelotti, it may have been asking too much for the Italian to step in when he was only installed a couple of hours before kick-off.

He hasn't met the players yet, let alone taken a training session. And while you would expect the 60-year-old to have developed a good understanding of what is required to turn Everton's fortunes around while his representatives have been negotiating a four-and-a-half year contract, even a coach of his experience can only do so much in the limited time available.

Duncan Ferguson was in his last game in charge as interim manager of Everton against Arsenal

It's also worth considering that Duncan Ferguson's record as Everton interim coach wasn't too shabby: a win over Chelsea, a draw at Manchester United and a Carabao Cup exit to Leicester on penalties.

Best leave the jacketless one in charge and let Ancelotti start afresh on Sunday.

But what about Arteta? Arsenal have won just once in six games since Ljungberg took temporary charge following the sacking of Unai Emery last month. This is a team in urgent need of leadership and the new leader was nowhere to be seen.

Arteta was only unveiled on Friday but his appointment had been widely expected throughout the week. Surely the former Manchester City No 2 must have known it was likely to happen before kick-off here and could have taken charge.

Arteta was an Arsenal player as recently as 2016 who, unlike Ancelotti, knows his club inside out. It was, he acknowledged on Friday, like coming home.

Freddie Ljungberg was on the touchline but the Gunners could have done with Arteta

'I have been preparing for a few years for this challenge to come. I know the expectations, level and stature of this club and what it deserves. I am ready for that challenge,' said Arteta who also spoke of the need for an 'immediate impact'.

So what was holding him back?

Get cracking and get this Arsenal team back up the table.

Given the mess he has inherited at the Emirates, there really was nothing to be gained by watching this game from upstairs.

He could have analysed his new players all he wants afterwards, even though he must know a lot about them already. What Arsenal needed at Goodison Park was the new manager out there alongside them, and it felt like he took the safe option alongside Ancelotti. The A-team.

How did that old TV show used to go? 'If you have a problem, if no one else can help, and if you can find them, maybe you can hire the A-Team.'

Just don't expect them to start at once.