Advertisement

Sat high up in the directors' box, flanked by their new executives, neither Carlo Ancelotti nor Mikel Arteta looked particularly impressed by a grim Caretaker derby.

Interims Duncan Ferguson and Freddie Ljungberg got plenty of effort in their final games in charge, but not much quality.

'It was a bit of a struggle out there,' admitted Ferguson as the evidence was laid out why Everton and Arsenal have recruited new leaders following the disastrous reigns of Marco Silva and Unai Emery.

Arsenal striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who is seeking a move away from the club, looks dejected after the 0-0 draw

Everton defender Lucas Digne, whose set piece deliveries were dreadful throughout, looks frustrated during the match

Interim coach Duncan Ferguson risked the wrath of his players again as he subbed off substitute Cenk Tosun for Moise Kean

New Everton boss Carlo Ancelotti was in the stands with Duncan Ferguson taking charge of the game against the Gunners

New Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta was also in the stands and back at his old stomping ground at Goodison Park on Saturday

MATCH FACTS, RATINGS AND LIVE LEAGUE TABLE Everton (4-4-2): Pickford 7; Sidibe 7.5, Holgate 6, Mina 6, Digne 6; Sigurdsson 7, Davies 5.5, Delph 6.5 (Keane 72, 5.5), Iwobi 6 (Tosun 12, 6, Kean 80)); Richarlison 6, Calvert-Lewin 6 Subs not used: Stekelenburg (Gk), Baines, Coleman, Bernard Booked: Davies, Sigurdsson Arsenal (4-2-3-1): Leno 6; Maitland-Niles 6, Chambers 6, Luiz 6, Saka 6.5; Torreira 6.5, Xhaka 5.5; Nelson 5.5, Smith Rowe 6 (Willock 66 6), Martinelli 7; Aubameyang 6 (Lacazette 78 6) Subs not used: Martinez (Gk), Mavropanos, Mustafi, Guendouzi, Pepe Booked: Saka, Chambers, Willock Referee: Kevin Friend 6.5 Attendance: 39,336 Season at a glance Live tables

Fixtures

Scores Premier League

Premier League

Championship

League One

League Two

Scottish Premiership

Scottish Div 1

Scottish Div 2

Scottish Div 3

Ligue 1

Serie A

La Liga

Bundesliga







Ancelotti, true managerial royalty with three Champions Leagues on his CV, was sandwiched in between Farhad Moshiri and Bill Kenwright, sporting a pinstripe club tie having been confirmed as Everton's manager on Saturday morning.

He popped into the dressing-room after the game to introduce himself to his new players and make a speech congratulating them on their fantastic 'fighting spirit'.

There are 10million annual reasons Ancelotti has taken the job but even the most diehard Evertonian would acknowledge their current squad is a step down from training every day with Andrea Pirlo or Cristiano Ronaldo.

Their best hope of a goal on Saturday was foiled by VAR when they ruled Lucas Torreira hadn't deliberately handled a shot by Dominic Calvert-Lewin.

David Luiz tries to organise a shaky Arsenal backline as they prepare to defend a set piece against the Toffees on Saturday

Arsenal forward Gabriel Martinelli challenges Everton midfielder Tom Davies in the air during a cagey first half at Goodison

Arsenal youngster Reiss Nelson, who was back in the side in a 4-2-3-1 formation, contests with Everton's Lucas Digne

Arsenal defender Luiz made a number of needless fouls in the first half as Everton looked to target the Brazilian defender

Along the posh seats, Arteta sat impassively next to Gunners managing director Vinai Venkatesham with 87-year-old Ken Friar, club secretary during the glory years of George Graham and Arsene Wenger, also in the travelling party.

Arteta has learned from the very best, Pep Guardiola, at Manchester City and is a former Arsenal player, but it looks a monumental challenge to get Arsenal challenging the rest of the Big Six.

Ljungberg picked a young team featuring five starters aged 22 or under and a first clean sheet in 15 was very welcome. But there was little of the attacking fluency associated with the club and their only clear-cut chance was spurned by skipper Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang shortly before he was substituted.

The Swede is backing Arteta to keep the club's DNA made famous by Wenger. 'We are Arsenal. We have to keep the ball and I know Mikel is a great coach,' he said.

'I felt we have taken strides in the last few games in how we want to play football. We put out a very young team here. Everton had beaten Chelsea here so well done to the boys for a point.'

Arsenal midfielder Granit Xhaka grabs hold of Everton forward Richarlison who tries to keep hold of the ball for his team

Martinelli was down on the floor for a long time receiving treatment from physio Chris Morgan after injuring his ankle

Arsenal midfielder Ainsley Maitland-Niles who was deputising at right back skips away from Everton's Fabian Delph (right)

Match highlights were brief. Richarlison had a couple of shots wide and Ferguson repeated his trick of substituting the substitute, Cenk Tosun making way for Moise Kean in the second half after he'd earlier replaced Alex Iwobi, who limped off with a hamstring problem.

Jordan Pickford was marginally busier in Everton's goal making two saves from Aubameyang. The first was a brilliant reflex stop after an Arsenal corner had fallen to their top striker four yards out.

Mesut Ozil wasn't in the 18 because of a foot injury though Ljungberg said he wouldn't have been picked anyway for throwing a hissy-fit after being substituted against Manchester City.

As the final whistle blew, attention immediately threw forward. Ferguson, an Everton legend unbeaten in his four games as manager against Chelsea, Manchester United, Leicester and Arsenal, is set to stay as part of Ancelotti's backroom team, possibly as assistant-manager.

'I've had a word with the boss. He looks happy with me,' he smiled. 'It looks like I am still in a job and I am sure he will spell out what he wants from me on Monday.

Arsenal forward Martinelli (left) puts Everton defender Djibril Sidibe (right) under pressure as the Gunners seek an opening

Everton's Alex Iwobi leaves the pitch as a substitute after sustaining a hamstring injury in the first 10 minutes of the match

Everton interim manager Duncan Ferguson with Cenk Tosun, who comes on as a substitute to replace Iwobi in the first half

'There is no point in kidding ourselves. The league table doesn't lie. We are near the bottom and have to work very hard to push up to sixth, eighth, tenth. I am sure they will get recruitment in January.

'He (Ancelotti) came into the dressing-room after the game and made a lovely speech. It was fantastic how he spoke to the players, in a broad sense it was about the fantastic fighting spirit.

'I've said from day one we wanted a world-class manager and we've got one.'

Arsenal are higher up the table than Everton but more divided if anything. The travelling Arsenal support chanted against Arsenal Fan TV, a provocative YouTube channel which ferments dissent when the club needs unity.

Ljungberg, who worked alongside Emery before taking temporary charge, confirmed the club would like him to stay and help Arteta.

They will chat on Sunday to see if that's feasible and the Swede is also being courted by hometown club Malmo.

If he does leave, his last line-up featuring 18-year-olds Bukayo Saka and Gabriel Martinelli will be a decent legacy.

Arsenal youngster Emile Smith Rowe of Arsenal battles for possession with Gylfi Sigurdsson of Everton in the early exchanges

Aubameyang of Arsenal battles for possession with Yerry Mina (left) of Everton during the lunchtime Premier League match

'I've tried to fill the gaps and get us organised. We are a big club that's been a bit low on confidence,' said Ljungberg.

Arteta gave a brief rallying call to the team before kick-off, asking them to be brave and take responsibility, and returned to see his new players afterwards.

The real work begins on Monday. As for Ancelotti, his last visit to Goodison in 2011 saw him sacked by Chelsea after a 1-0 defeat. This was a more pleasurable return, but he'll be under no illusions of the challenge having sealed his new four-year contract just before kick off.