She's the former Love Island Australia star who has become an Instagram sensation.

And Shelby Bilby revealed her jaw-dropping curves in her latest post shared to the social media site on Sunday.

Posing inside her Gold Coast home in nothing but a skimpy yellow print bikini, the 26-year-old alerted fans in the caption to her new TikTok video account.

Jaw-dropping curves: Former Love Island Australia star Shelby Bilby, 26, (pictured) revealed her ample bust in a skimpy yellow bikini, in a photo shared to Instagram on Sunday

Shelby played with the ends of her blonde tresses in one hand, and used the other to capture the perfect selfie on her iPhone from above.

She added tortoise-shell spectacles to the look, and her makeup palette included a flawless base, bold brows, false lashes and a natural colour on her very plump pout.

Excited to have joined the trending video sharing app TikTok, Shelby wrote in the post's caption: 'GUYS! I finally downloaded TikTok and I'm addicted.'

Popular: Since starring on last year's season of Love Island Australia, Shelby has become an Instagram sensation

TikTok is a social networking service that allows users to create lip-sync, comedy and talent videos.

Meanwhile, Shelby's Instagram page is littered with sizzling pictures in scantily-clad attire.

But the beauty entrepreneur has admitted her racy photos often create problems with Instagram's strict censorship policies.

Body-confident: The blonde's Instagram page is littered with sizzling pictures in scantily-clad attire

In October, she revealed one of her photos had been removed by the social media app for being in breach of their nudity rules.

'Take #2 cause apparently me holding my boobs is "sexual activity" yet there is 7192929293 accounts way worse than mine,' Shelby captioned a photo of herself covering her naked breasts with her arms.

She added: 'What's wrong with a woman being confident in her own body? Stop being a prude and block yourself hun... Whyyyy you be like this @Instagram? #Haters #JogOn.'