Substitute Cenk Tosun was hauled off in place of Moise Kean despite only being introduced in the first half by Everton caretaker boss Duncan Ferguson against Arsenal.

The 47-year-old, at the helm of the club for his final game before Carlo Ancelotti takes charge, had opted to remove a substitute for the second game in a row in his short tenure.

And the Turkish striker, who has struggled for form since moving to Goodison Park, appeared furious with Ferguson's decision and headed straight down the tunnel.

Everton's first half substitute Cenk Tosun was hauled off in place of Moise Kean against Arsenal

Moise Kean returns!



For the second game in a row Duncan Ferguson takes off a substitute.



Carlo Ancelotti can see the funny side. pic.twitter.com/9WqGpUPXpP — Football on BT Sport (@btsportfootball) December 21, 2019

The pair failed to offer each other a handshake, with Tosun appearing to not even acknowledge Ferguson before walking inside.

Kean, a summer signing from Juventus, had received similar treatment against Manchester United last week - with the young striker removed despite being sent on just 19 minutes beforehand.

At Old Trafford, Kean had reacted similarly to Tosun - with the starlet snubbing the manager and refusing to take his place on the bench before storming off down the tunnel.

Tosun did not acknowledge Ferguson as he was subbed and he stormed off down the tunnel

Tosun failed to impress in the clash against the Gunners on Saturday, with the hosts failing to register a shot on target.

The 28-year-old replaced former Arsenal star Alex Iwobi in the early stages of the game, after the winger had sustained an apparent hamstring injury.

And an evident feeling of discontent had greeted the final whistle, with Everton having not tested Arsenal stopper Bernd Leno across the 90 minutes with the new permanent boss watching on from the stands.

Duncan Ferguson used the same trick against Manchester United with Moise Kean the victim

Ancelotti has penned a four-and-a-half year deal to join the top flight strugglers, following his sacking from Napoli earlier this month.

The 60-year-old Italian also ensured Ferguson remains part of Everton's coaching staff, and the Scot was full of praise for the club's appointment.

Speaking after the goalless draw, Ferguson said: 'Carlo Ancelotti is a brilliant appointment. I've said all along we want a world class manager at Everton - and we've got one. I've had a word with him and I'm still in a job! I can't wait to start working with him.

'He came into the changing room after the game. He made a lovely speech - everyone is onboard and we're all looking forward to starting work on Monday.'

Freddie Ljungberg had also taken charge of his final game as Arsenal caretaker manager

Freddie Ljungberg had also overseen his final game as Arsenal's caretaker manager at Goodison Park.

Mikel Arteta was present to watch two of his former clubs face each other, just a day after the ex-midfielder was officially unveiled as Arsenal's new head coach and Unai Emery's permanent successor.

The Spaniard, who had worked alongside Pep Guardiola at Manchester City for three years, is believed to have spoken to his new players in the dressing room after the game - with Ancelotti also addressing his charges.