A teenage girl brutally attacked by her ex-boyfriend has slammed the 'demon girl' who ordered him to stab her to death to 'prove his love'.

Iman Nassir, 17, has spoken out after her ex-boyfriend and the father of her baby Rhett Carty-Shaw, also 17, was jailed for 16 years after repeatedly knifing her and leaving her with terrible injuries.

His girlfriend Kyro Mori Akihiro, then known as Sarah Mohamed, was also jailed for 16 years after she encouraged Carty-Shaw to launch the attack at Ms Nassir's home in Openshaw, Manchester in May.

Mohamed had learnt that Carty-Shaw, who has a child with Ms Nassir, was seeing his ex behind her back.

She was 'incensed' and sent more than 50 text messages to encourage Carty-Shaw to carry out the brutal attack including one that read: 'Why you taking so long? Hurry up and do it.'

Iman Nassir, 17, (pictured in hospital) spoke to reporters after her ex-boyfriend Rhett Carty-Shaw, also 17, was jailed for 16 years for a knife attack which left her with terrible injuries

Iman Nassir, 17, spoke out after her ex-boyfriend Rhett Carty-Shaw, also 17, (left) was jailed for 16 years for a knife attack in May which left her with terrible injuries. Kyro Mori Akihiro, then known as Sarah Mohamed (right), was also jailed for 16 years after she encouraged Carty-Shaw to launch the attack in Manchester

Mohamed had first plotted the murder after she discovered that her boyfriend was continuing his relationship with the victim, 17-year-old Imam Nasir (Ms Nasir is pictured with Rhett Carty-Shaw while they were dating)

Sarah Mohamed, 17, loitered outside the victim's home in Openshaw, Manchester for two hours while she waited for her boyfriend, Rhett Carty-Shaw, also 17, to kill the mother of his child (Carty-Shaw is pictured with his and Ms Nasir's child)

Ms Nassir has since moved away from the home where the attack unfolded. She underwent surgery and spent four days in hospital after receiving multiple stab wounds.

Months after her ordeal, Ms Nassir takes painkillers and antidepressants.

She says the baby boy she shares with Carty-Shaw, now aged about nine months, is a constant reminder of him as they look alike.

But she is feeling positive after the conclusion of the case, and has hopes of returning to her studies and is considering becoming a police officer after being inspired by the help and support she received.

'It's hard to move on because I have his child,' she said. 'Moving on I feel like it's my year to shine now.'

'It has put my mind at ease to know that they are in prison now. I can do all the fun things I want to do.'

Phone analysis showed that Mohamed was constantly pressuring the boy, repeatedly texting him instructing him to video what he was doing and send the footage to her video so that she knew that it had been done

Ms Nasir, who is said to have been lucky not to have been killed in the attack, was taken to hospital where she was treated for serious injuries (pictured, injuries underneath her armpit)

Carty-Shaw inflicted numerous blows that left her with wounds to her face, neck and armpit plus three to her back and was lucky to escape with her life

Ms Nassir describes Mohamed as a 'demon type of girl' who influenced Carty-Shaw.

She went to Manchester Academy with Carty-Shaw, and they began dating when they were in Year 9.

Ms Nassir said she was aware of Mohamed, but didn't know her personally.

Mohamed started seeing Carty-Shaw when they were in Year 11.

'I feel like she had it in her, but I never felt like he had it in him,' said Ms Nassir.

'I would say she is more manipulative.

'He went from being this nice bloke to this kind of Jekyll and Hyde kind of thing.'

During parts of the court proceedings, Mohamed appeared to be smiling or laughing at certain points.

Ms Nassir claims she is 'living her own fairytale', describing her as 'somebody that is stuck in their own head'.

'She doesn't want to come to terms with the fact that this is reality. He (Carty-Shaw) did cheat on you.'

Both Mohamed and Carty-Shaw are now serving lengthy periods of detention. The pair could not be named during their trial because of their age.

The wounds sustained in the brutal attack weren't fatal but left Ms Nassir with serious injuries

Ms Nassir (left) had started dating Carty-Shaw (right) in 2013 but their romance began to fizzle out in 2018

Ex-girlfriend: Imam Nassir (left). Sarah Mohamed, 17 has been jailed for 16 years for intentionally encouraging a person to commit murder (right)

Ms Nassir claims she is 'living her own fairytale', describing her as 'somebody that is stuck in their own head' (she is pictured outside court following the sentence yesterday)

But after their conviction, and after submissions from the press, Judge Alan Conrad QC ruled that there was a 'strong public interest' in revealing the identities of defendants sentenced for such serious crimes.

During Friday's sentencing hearing, Ms Nassir bravely spoke out in court in front of Carty-Shaw and Mohamed, telling how her life has been changed by her ordeal.

In her statement, she said: 'I find this so difficult to talk about because words can't describe how I feel.

'I have a son with Rhett, I feel empty but I try not to let this feeling overpower me because I have a beautiful son to raise.

'For that reason I had to move away from Greater Manchester to feel safe and to keep my son safe.

Pictured: Text messages sent between Sarah Mohamed and Rhett Carty-Shaw

'My mum, myself, my son and my three siblings have all moved away. This has not only affected me but my whole family.

'My two younger siblings have had to change schools, they are currently going through therapy as they witnessed me with stab wounds bleeding heavily before the ambulance came.

'I also worry that my son will grow up like his dad and be violent.

'The incident has dramatically changed and my life and the outlook of living.

'I can't do things I want to do anymore because I'm too scared, I'm scared that someone is going to come after me and finish off the job that Rhett and Sarah both started.

'I stopped going to college because we have moved away and because my mental health isn't great anymore.

'I'm too scared to go out on my own, I always have to have someone with me, I am even too scared to be in the house on my own.

'I don't trust anyone as if Rhett, the person I loved, can do that to me, then anyone can.

'Sometimes I wake up sweating and screaming in my sleep, I find it hard to breathe because I'm so traumatised, I suffer with headaches that just won't go away.

'Night time is a particularly hard time for me as I am alone with my thoughts and they overpower me.

'I'm taking baby steps to get my life together, this is something I never thought would happen to me.'

Ms Nasir (pictured) had started dating Carty-Shaw in 2013 but their romance began to fizzle out in 2018 before she realised she was pregnant with his child

Carty-Shaw began dating his new girlfriend but continued seeing his Ms Nassir (pictured outside Manchester Crown Court) behind the his latest partner's back

She added: 'I find it difficult to carry my son, I still struggle to carry heavy objects and the doctor has told me it will take time to get my strength back due to the stab wounds in my back and under my arm, my Mum does the majority of daily care like lifting and bathing my son.

'I was in hospital for four days after the incident, I had surgery performed by three different doctors due to my wounds being on my face, head and back.

'The wounds to my face have healed but I still have scars that are visible,

'I try to cover these up with make-up as I don't like the way they look, I also don't like people asking me about them as then I have to relive what happened.

'I try to wear clothes to cover the scar on my neck, if I don't I do put make-up on it to try and cover it up.

'The large wound to my right cheek is still effecting my right eyebrow, the nerve was cut and despite the doctor fixing it back together. I still have no movement in it.

'I cannot raise my eyebrow and I don't know if I ever will, the doctor cannot say for sure.

'The wound under my arm took three months to close as it would not heal, I had lots of trips back and forth to the doctors to keep having it dressed.

'Physically now my wounds have healed but I still have to take painkillers to deal with the day to day pain that still comes.

'I also now take antidepressants to try and help me get through day to day life until I find a new normal way of living.

'I find it very frustrating that I can't do things that I didn't think twice about before.

'My life is going through many phases and I am going to rise from this, going through so much at a young age I am not going to let it beat me.'