A record number of volunteer firefighters have stepped up to take on the massive blazes burning on Sydney's doorstep.

Between ten and 20 properties are believed to have been lost in New South Wales as the state battled as many as seven emergency level bushfires on Saturday.

An unprecedented 4,000 volunteers from the NSW Rural Fire Service were on the ground as they bravely kept the death toll at zero despite catastrophic conditions.

NSW Rural Fire Service crews watch on as on as the Gospers Mountain Fire hits Bilpin on Saturday as 4,000 volunteer firefighters stepped up to take on the massive blazes burning on Sydney's doorstep

NSW RFS Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons said areas like Bilpin (pictured burning on Saturday) - which is at the heart of the Gospers Mountain blaze - still needed to be on high alert into Sunday

Another 6,000 members of the emergency services have been fighting the fires as four firefighters suffered heat exhaustion and another sustained burns to his hands and face.

NSW RFS Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons said areas like Bilpin - which is at the heart of the Gospers Mountain blaze - still needed to be on high alert into Sunday as a southerly change blew through the region north-west of Sydney.

'We need to be mindful areas like Bilpin and the Bells Line of Road are being heavily impacted by fire as we speak as a result of that strong southerly change,' he said, according to The Daily Telegraph.

As of 9pm, four fires remained at emergency level including the Currowan fire near Ulladulla in the Shoalhaven, the Green Wattle Fire south-west of Sydney, Gospers Mountain Fire north-west of Sydney and the Upper Turon Road fire near Lithgow.

Mr Fitzsimmons said the Gospers Mountain Fire is still 'extremely active and busy' and continues to spread at a rapid rate.

Go-pro footage captured by Sydney Morning Herald photographer Nick Moir shows the moment a Fire and Rescue NSW officer stumbled after he was hit by a private vehicle in the heavy smoke.

Mr Fitzsimmons said the Gospers Mountain Fire (pictured) is still 'extremely active and busy' and continues to spread at a rapid rate

'My understanding is he's okay, there may be a fracture but we're not sure yet,' Commissioner Fitzsimmons told reporters.

A man is feared to be missing though from Dargan, near Lithgow, after his home was engulfed in flames on Saturday.

Meanwhile, at least 54 people were injured on Saturday at the Cudlee Creek fire in South Australia, 23 of those including firefighters and two police officers.