Lewis Burton appeared downcast on Saturday after it was announced that Laura Whitmore would be replacing his girlfriend Caroline Flack on Love Island.

The tennis player, 27, appeared to be having a tense-looking phone call after taking a taxi to a leafy suburb in London following his girlfriend's assault charge last week.

A strained-looking Lewis looked stylish in a pair of skinny jeans, a blue trench coat and white trainers.

Downcast: Lewis Burton appeared downcast on Saturday after it was announced that Laura Whitmore would be replacing his girlfriend Caroline Flack on Love Island

He finished his look with a blue and tan chequered scarf and a Peaky Blinders-inspired grey baker boy hat.

It comes after Caroline shared her support for pal Laura after she was confirmed as the replacement host for Winter Love Island on Friday.

Taking to Instagram Stories, the presenter, 40, voiced her support for the Irish star, while admitting she's still going through 'a really rough time' after stepping down as Love Island host following her arrest for assault last week.

Laura's appointment comes amid mass-speculation, with MailOnline exclusively revealing on Wednesday that she was lined-up to be presenter.

Tense: The tennis player, 27, appeared to be having a tense-looking phone call after taking a taxi to a leafy suburb in London following his girlfriend's assault charge last week

Strained: A strained-looking Lewis looked stylish in a pair of skinny jeans, a blue trench coat and white trainers

Arrival: The boyfriend of Caroline was seen arriving via a taxi as he appeared downcast

Scandal: Lewis girlfriend Caroline has been rocked by scandal since last week when she was arrested and charged with assault after the argument with him

Hinting that she was struggling with the aftermath of her departure, Caroline wrote: 'I'm glad it's Laura... She loves the show as much as I do... again...

'thank you for your continuous messages of support... it's a really rough time... but I'm doing all I can to keep my head above water and sort this all out...'

Caroline's post also comes after a source exclusively told MailOnline she's turned down aftercare from Love Island bosses, despite reports they had offered to pay for 'therapy' for the star.

A source told MailOnline: 'She has had one meeting with ITV execs and they said they are there for her if she needs them, but she assured them she is fine.'

'Glad it's her:' It comes after Caroline shared her support for pal Laura after she was confirmed as the replacement host for Winter Love Island on Friday (pictured together in 2015)

Candid: Taking to Instagram Stories, the presenter, 40, voiced her support for the Irish star,

Close: When Laura was announced as the Love Island host, Caroline said she was 'happy' to see the Irish star land the job (pictured in January)

On Friday, ITV finally confirmed the news that Laura would be replacing Caroline as Love Island's newest host for the winter series.

Following Caroline's arrest and charge for assault after a fight with her boyfriend Lewis, 27, it had been widely-speculated who would replace Caroline, with fans sharing their picks on social media

Taking to both social media and in an official statement, Laura confirmed the news which MailOnline revealed exclusively on Wednesday.

It's her! On Friday ITV finally confirmed the news that Laura would be replacing Caroline as Love Island newest host for the winter series

Referencing both her friendship with Caroline and the host's efforts to get her the job, Laura said: 'To say I'm excited to be heading to Cape Town to host Love Island, the biggest show on television, is an understatement...

'I want to thank ITV for trusting me at the helm of this huge show. I wish it was in better circumstances; Caroline is a brilliant host and also a friend.

'We've spoken a lot in the last few days since she stepped down. She has been very kind to me and strongly pushed me for this role. I've watched her host every series and know I have big boots to fill. I will try and do it justice...

'Above all, I am a massive fan of this show. I've never been to a Love Island villa, and I can't wait to get in there to meet all the new Islanders looking for love.'

Happy days! Taking to both social media and in an official statement, the Irish star confirmed the news which MailOnline revealed exclusively on Wednesday

Excited: As she shared a snap of the famous Love Island bottle, Laura also took to Instagram to write about her excitement to take over the role

The Love Island team are the best in the business… including the voice and heart of the show, Iain. He thought he was getting a holiday away from me… not a chance!'

Head of Digital Channels and Acquisitions, Paul Mortimer, said: 'I'm delighted that Laura is able to step in this winter on ITV2's biggest show.

'She is the best person for the job and is a popular and experienced presenter of live television. Whilst Caroline is away, we know that Love Island will be in very safe hands.'

Soon after the announcement Laura's boyfriend and Love Island voiceover Iain Stirling voiced his support, as she shared a selfie and jokingly wrote: 'The new #loveisland host seems nice... I wonder if she's single.'

Happy days! Laura's boyfriend Iain Stirling is the voiceover for the show, which led many fans to insist she would be the perfect choice

Close: She wrote: 'I want to thank ITV for trusting me at the helm of this huge show. I wish it was in better circumstances; Caroline is a brilliant host and also a friend' (pictured 2016)

Caroline has been rocked by scandal since last week when she was arrested and charged with assault after the argument with Lewis.

She has only been pictured out once in the week since she was arrested, seen just outside the Soho hotel in London with her PR Nathan Charles.

The channel has cut her from the Love Island promo ads which she filmed ahead of the show's confirmed start date on January 12.

Meanwhile, Caroline's romance with tennis player and model Lewis, appears to have been patched up.

Sweet: Soon after the announcement Love Island voiceover Iain Stirling shared a selfie with his girlfriend and jokingly wrote: 'The new #loveisland host seems nice... I wonder if she's single'

He took to Instagram Stories to call her 'loyal and kind' and shared various pictures of her on social media along with a love heart. It's unclear if Caroline has been able to have contact with Lewis or if her bail conditions dictate otherwise.

Standing down from the series on Tuesday, Caroline broke her silence on Instagram and wrote: 'There have been a significant number of media reports and allegations in regard to my personal life.

'While matters were not as have been reported I am committed to co-operating with the appropriate authorities and I can't comment further on these matters until the legal process is over.

'However Love Island has been my world for the last five years, it's the best show on telly. In order not to detract attention from the upcoming series I feel the best thing I can do is stand down from Series 6.'