The Holiday Guru is always on call to answer your questions.

This week's topics also include the best places to stay for a relaxing break in Greece and how to correct a visa application error.

Q. I mistakenly clicked the ‘no’ box when asked whether the details I had given were correct while applying for an Australian tourist visa — and I was rejected. Is there a way to change this?

Helen Wood, via email.

If you make an error while applying for an Australian tourist visa and get rejected, the Holiday Guru says you should simply make another application

A. Simply make another application for the ‘visa’, known as an Electronic Travel Authorisation (ETA), which is required for tourist visits to Australia and is free for UK citizens: immi.home affairs.gov.au/visas. If you have any trouble, contact the Australian High Commission (uk.embassy.gov.au).

Q. I would like to take the children, aged six and eight, to Egypt. Are you aware of any family tours, or is there a child-friendly Nile cruise ship that has a pool?

Katherine Merrick, via email.

A. For safety reasons, most Nile cruise ships will not allow children under the age of eight. Instead, book a twin-centre break with three nights in Cairo and four in Luxor staying at hotels with pools.

Sign up for a day-long tour of the pyramids and the Egyptian Museum in Cairo and for two half-day tours of the sights on the West and East Banks of the Nile in Luxor. With flights, transfers and tours, the price is from £3,093 for the three of you (discoveregypt.co.uk).

Q. We want to go to Greece next September, but not to Crete, Mykonos or Santorini, and we don’t want to spend time transferring by boat. Can you suggest a relaxing break in a boutique hotel, possibly on Kefalonia?

Jane O’Neill, via email.

The Emelisse Nature Resort, just outside the picturesque harbour village of Fiskardo (above) in the north of Kefalonia

A. Try the Emelisse Nature Resort, just outside the picturesque harbour village of Fiskardo in the north of Kefalonia; there are lots of fine tavernas close by. Rooms are sleek and minimalist, and the hotel has infinity pools and a spa. A week for two is from about £1,500 B&B (emelisseresort.com). Or, closer to the centre and cheaper, the Fiscardo Bay Hotel is charming, from about £800 for a week B&B (fiscardobay.com). Direct Heathrow-Kefalonia flights are from £192 next September (ba.com).

Q. I have replacement hips and a replacement knee so use a walking stick and have mobility problems. Is there a nice seaside place not too far from where I live in Herts you could recommend? The cost is no problem.

Josie Shingles, via email.

A. The Swan at Southwold, Suffolk, has designer rooms, lifts and rooms with walk-in showers. It is connected to Adnams brewery (tours available) and is just a short stroll to the beach as well as a pleasant promenade. Dinner B&B stays from £260 a night (theswansouthwold.co.uk).

WE’RE HERE TO HELP

For advice, send your questions to holidayplanner@dailymail.co.uk or write to Daily Mail Travel, Northcliffe House, 2 Derry Street, London W8 5TT. Please include your contact details.