Janine Allis has revealed that her son Samuel Allis has had to flee his home due to the bushfires.

In a blog post written for her official website, the 54-year-old discussed the devastation engulfing the region near her 28-year-old son's Northern NSW property.

The millionaire Boost Juice CEO wrote: 'My eldest son Samuel, was directly affected by the NSW fires.

'He is still out of his home': Boost Juice founder Janine Allis (centre, holding her granddaughter) revealed on Friday that her son Samuel Allis (right) had to flee due to bushfires

'We often see people on the news who are affected by these events and you feel for them as they struggle through things that are often out of their control but having Samuel and his family in danger was another thing all together.'

The Shark Tank star went on: 'As I write this, he is still out of his home with his wife and children and any day his house may be destroyed'.

However she added that he, 'has a great outlook on life and what really matters is that him and his family are safe.'

The 54-year-old discussed the devastation near her 28-year-old son's Northern NSW property. The Boost Juice CEO wrote: 'My eldest son Samuel, was directly affected by the NSW fires'

She wrote: 'Having Samuel and his family in danger was another thing all together. As I write this, he is still out of his home with his wife and children and any day his house may be destroyed'. Samuel is pictured on his property

Janine has several times shared Instagram snaps taken with her son and his children, taken at the property.

Less than a week ago, she shared snaps from the home before the family had to leave.

She captioned a set of photos of the family: 'Visiting northern NSW to see Samuel's children (my grandchildren) and land.

Home: A week ago, she shared snaps from the home before the family had to leave (pictured with her granddaughter). 'Visiting northern NSW to see Samuel's children (my grandchildren) and land. 'NSW fires came within 100 meters of the house so so lucky' she wrote

The entrepreneur added: 'NSW fires came within 100 meters of the house so so lucky. Love the Bush'.

Janine is happily married to husband Jeff Allis, and the two share four children; Samuel, 28, Oliver, 22, Riley, 20 and Tahlia, 10.

She appeared on Australian Survivor earlier this year but was knocked out of the competition in sixth place.