Sam Allardyce slammed Everton's 'basic' first half showing against Arsenal in front of new boss Carlo Ancelotti.

The Italian was in the stands at Goodison Park to run the rule over his new side following his unveiling as the new Everton boss after the sacking of Marco Silva.

However, the highly-acclaimed coach will have been left unimpressed by the Merseyside club's opening 45 minutes, in which they failed to find their rhythm to cause the visitors any real problems.

Sam Allardyce took aim at Everton's first half performance in front of Carlo Ancelotti

The Italian (left) has signed a four-and-a-half-year deal to become the new Toffees manager

And Allardyce, who was in charge of the Toffees for six months, has said that Ancelotti will be wondering what he has let himself in for after signing a new four-and-a-half-deal with the club.

'(Carlo will be thinking) 'Oh dear'', Allardyce said during punditry duty for BT Sport. 'I don't think he would have expected the basic errors from a Premier League outfit.

'It has shocked me. Maybe they are down and out and a bit leggy because they played in midweek.

However, Allardyce said the Italian will be questioning his decision after the first 45 minutes

'I think as professionals they need to deliver more than they have today.'

Meanwhile, Arsenal legend Martin Keown was equally scathing in his assessment of both sides, with new Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta also watching on from the directors' box.

'The quality just isn't there,' he said. 'There are two managers in the stands and if this is an interview process, they haven't done too well.

'It's exactly the same for Arsenal. The game is there to be won. It's in danger of breaking into a football match.

'Arteta will know there is a lot of work to do. Okay it's a lot of kids playing but they're not running into the spaces behind the Everton defence.'

Martin Keown was equally scathing of his former club who showed very little promise

Things did not improve much in the second half as Everton finished without a single shot on target over 90 minutes, ending a run of 71 Premier League games getting at least one on target.

Ancelotti will now get down to work on Monday morning and will take charge of his first game back at Goodison Park on Boxing Day for the visit of Burnley.

The stalemate leaves Everton 15th, just four points above Aston Villa in the relegation zone.