Fans hoping to watch a great version of A Christmas Carol on the BBC last night took to Twitter to share their disappointment.

British Twitter users took to the social media site to say that the sound was poor and the actors seemed to be mumbling.

In the BBC's adaptation of the Charles Dickens classic, where Guy Pearce stars as Ebenezer Scrooge and Stephen Graham as Jacob Marley, many said that the sound was 'rubbish'.

While another tweeted that the mumbling was so bad that they had to turn the volume down and try and 'lip read' what the actors were saying.

BBC's adaptation of the Charles Dickens classic started last night , where Guy Pearce (pictured) stars as Ebenezer Scrooge - but many said that this scene had poor sound quality

British Twitter users took to the social media site to say that the sound was poor and the actors seemed to be mumbling. Pictured: Bob Cratchit in the TV show last night

The first episode, of the three part mini series, aired last night and saw Guy Pearce's Ebenezer Scrooge character visited by the first of three ghoulish visitors, in an attempt to transform him into a kind man.

However, it was early on in the episode, when Scrooge was talking to Bob Cratchit about why he hates Christmas, that many people started to complain on social media.

One person who was watching the adaption said: 'Once again the BBC don't know how to record sound, or hire actors that can talk without mumbling.... Volume turned way up.'

While another said of the trendy new BBC adaptation: 'More bbc mumbling at #ChristmasCarol or am I going deaf?'

Many took to social media to say that they couldn't hear the sound very well and the actors were mumbling

Others went on to complain:' #ChristmasCarol. I agree with the complaints about the mumbling so we're deafening the neighbours here!'

While one more said: 'Sorry BBC but I couldn’t stick with this adaptation. Could barely hear the sound , the Jacob Marley scenes were unnecessary and Cratchit unconvincing. Bored after 15 minutes in. Keep it tight and spare. '

Another gave suggestions to the BBC: 'Bit slow. And why doesnt the Beeb employ decent sound recordists?'

While others just complained how boring it was: 'How can the BBC have made such a brilliant story so boring?'

Many also went on to say that they found it boring and that they preferred the Muppets version of A Christmas Carol

While some even compared it against the Muppets Christmas Carol: '#ChristmasCarol as much as I like Guy Pearce... I have to say I much prefer the Muppets version.'

Another added: 'New bbc adaptation of a #ChristmasCarol is awful. Not scary, not funny, not sad, but boring and as usual ticks all the required boxes for diversity no matter how incongruous. Muppets did it better.'

Episode one of the BBC mini series begins with a boy urinating on the grave of Jacob Marley and features dialogue littered with expletives, including the F-word.

Earlier in the month is was revealed that Tiny Tim, in the adaptation, would be played by Lenny Rush, 10, who has a rare form of dwarfism.

He revealed that he hopes his appearance on the BBC series will inspire other people with disabilities.

The first episode, of the three part mini series, aired last night and saw Guy Pearce's Ebenezer Scrooge character visited by the first of three ghoulish visitors, in an attempt to transform him into a kind man.

Earlier in the month is was revealed that Tiny Tim, in the adaptation, would be played by Lenny Rush (pictured) 10, who has a rare form of dwarfism

The 10-year-old Essex actor, who has Spondyloepiphyseal Dysplasia congenita (SEDc), which affects bone growth, wants viewers to see that 'anything is possible if you try hard enough'.

Talking to the Daily Mail, Lenny said: 'I think why not cast a disabled actor in the role of a disabled person if they are good at what they do? It raises awareness and shows that everyone is different.'

He added: 'I hope that in five years I’ve been able to work with some more amazing directors and actors, and that I am still acting as I love it so much.'

The mini-series will continue tonight and conclude on Christmas eve on BBC One.