Australian Idol winner Stan Walker was forced to get his stomach surgically removed after he developed cancer in 2017.

Since then, the 29-year-old has had to adjust a 'whole different life'.

And on Saturday, Stan has shared the inspiring message that his life has 'gotten better' than what it was before his cancer diagnosis.

'It's gotten better': Stan Walker has shared the inspiring message that his life has 'gotten better' than what it was before his cancer diagnosis

'It's been interesting, having to get used to a whole different life and a new way of living, eating. But I actually can't really remember what it was like before,' he told The Today Show.

The Black Box singer added: 'To be honest, everyone is like "oh, are you alright?" And I'm like, "I'm skinny. I don't have to diet again".'

He revealed his has been helping his 19-year-old cousin, who recently also had his own stomach removed due to cancer.

'A whole different life': Australian Idol winner Stan Walker was forced to get his stomach surgically removed after he developed cancer in 2017

'It's just weird that I have to give him advice. He's like, "is this normal? Am I going to be sick?",' Stan said.

He apparently told his cousin: 'You're going to go through all the that, but once you come out of that, then life kind of goes back to normal. For me, it's gotten better. My normal now is way better than what it was before.'

For the past decade, Stan has been an ambassador for You Can, a youth cancer program led by the Sony Foundation, after being approached by the initiative once he won Australian Idol.

Advocate for change: For the past decade, Stan has been an ambassador for You Can , a youth cancer program led by the Sony Foundation

'It was so close to me because I remember I was 16, my cousin was 16 but we had to watch him die of cancer. We watched him die in a hospice with no life in it at all. Surrounded by a lot of old people,' he said.

'What a last memory to have. You're already dying and having to die like this,' Stan added.

You Can is a a national network of age-appropriate specialised cancer centres and services for youth and young adults around Australia. '

'Better than before': Stan told the Today Show that his recovery has been 'interesting', but he 'can't really remember what it was like before' cancer

Stan recalled when he saw a You Can centre in Brisbane: 'I was like, man, I wish I had cancer here.'

'There's nothing worse than being stuck in a room and you’ve got all the sounds of the machines and doctors coming in constantly. You just want normality. So having these centres is the biggest relief and the biggest breath of fresh air,' he explained.