Casey Batchelor has revealed she is 'so excited' to see what her baby girl will look like as she reaches her 35th week of pregnancy.

The model, 35, is preparing for 'a completely different new journey' as she gets ready to welcome her second child with her fiancé Dane Goodson early next year.

The TV personality, who is already mum to 19-month-old Florence, posed for a baby bump snap in a pair of grey pyjama bottoms and a matching sports bra while adding the lengthy caption to reveal her plans and desires for her upcoming arrival.

'So excited': Casey Batchelor is 'so excited' to see what her baby girl will look like as she reaches 35 weeks of pregnancy

Casey was positively glowing in the selfie as she posed on the floor of her daughter's nursery while displaying her blossoming bump to perfection.

The excited star captioned the snap: '35+ weeks pregnant. So many people are having their babies early, I wonder if this little Princess will come early.

'So excited to see what she's going to look like. Florence is the double of Dane, so be nice if this Princess is a mini me.'

She confessed she is hoping her newborn will 'sleep through the night straight away' as she admits she knows every baby is 'completely different'.

Casey captioned the snap: '35+ weeks pregnant. So many people are having their babies early, I wonder if this little Princess will come early'

She added: 'As much as I'm more prepared this time coming, I'm sure it will still be a completely different new journey. Fingers crossed she'll sleep through the night straight away. We can only dream.'

It comes after Casey joked she was going to eat the next person to tell her how big she had gotten during her pregnancy.

She posed for a selfie in a pair of pink pants and pulled up her jumper to show off her bare stomach.

Final countdown: It came after Casey joked she's going to eat the next person who tells her how big she's become during her pregnancy

Casey captioned the snap: 'Cooking nicely ‘Yes I am clearly pregnant but if you remind me once more of how big I’ve gotten I am going to eat you’ #pregnancyjourney #thirdtrimester #notlongnow #babynumber2 #pregnancy'.

Taking to her Instagram Stories, Casey also bemoaned feeling unwell coupled with dealing with the perils of being in her third trimester (feeling uncomfortable and tired), all while juggling a toddler.

She sighed: 'The end of pregnancy is so hard anyway. But I am full of cold.'

Panning the camera over to Florence, she said: 'I can't wait for bedtime to come so this little munchkin can go to bed - I'm going to go to bed too!'

Not feeling great: Taking to her Instagram Stories, Casey also bemoaned being unwell coupled with dealing with the perils of being in her third trimester

Casey recently performed the splits in a new shoot for her Yoga Blitz workout programme. The former glamour model was glowing as she maintained perfect posture while wearing a black and gold bikini.

In one photo, the mother-of-one held her hands to her chest in a prayer pose, while another showed her holding her arms in the air.

The reality star previously credited her 4st weight loss to yoga after the birth of her first baby.

She has now founded Yoga Blitz, an app designed to help others become fit and healthier through yoga.

Namaste: Casey recently performed the splits in a new shoot for her Yoga Blitz workout programme

Bumping along: The former glamour model, 35, looked glowing as she maintained perfect posture while wearing a black and gold bikini

Speaking to MailOnline Casey revealed how yoga has helped with her second pregnancy.

She explained: 'With Florence I had really bad sickness. I put on a lot of weight, I was really unfit and unhealthy. This time I started off really healthy so that definitely helped.'

But that doesn't mean she’s immune from all the usual worries that come with having a baby.

She said: 'Everyone carries differently in pregnancy, but I tend to put on weight. I get the cellulite, the boobs get big, I become like a ballooned cushion!

Behind the scenes: The former Celebrity Big Brother star let her raven tresses fall loose in curls as she smiled for the camera

'I feel like that’s why on my Instagram I post real pictures and real moments. I think it’s important for women to feel empowered, what your body is doing is amazing, you’re growing a human. You shouldn’t be penalised for putting on weight.

'I haven't had the sickness so much, but I think the third trimester has hit me hard purely because I've got another baby to look after, I can’t rest and sleep when I want to!'

Casey and Dane won't be stopping there when they welcome their baby girl in 2020, and plan to carry on trying until they have a son.

The couple have been together for almost three years and announced their engagement in February.