They've been close friends for years and are show veterans of the hit ITVBe series.

And Pete Wicks and James Lock larked about in Essex on Friday night after celebrating Reids Billericay's Christmas party on Friday night.

The TOWIE stars, aged 31 and 33, playfully tackled each other as they headed out towards their taxi home.

Fun: Pete Wicks and James Lock larked about in Essex on Friday night after celebrating Reids Billericay's Christmas party on Friday night

Pete put on a muted display in a grey shirt and black jeans, leaving his signature curly brunette locks loose.

He rolled up his sleeves to show a glimpse of his tattoos and finished his look with a pair of suede beige boots.

Meanwhile James cut a fashionable figure in an all-black ensemble including a black leather jacket, T-shirt, jeans and boots.

Feeling festive: Pete put on a muted display in a grey shirt and black jeans, leaving his signature curly brunette locks loose

The TOWIE star tamed his brunette tresses back into a neat style for his night out.

It comes after Pete was forced to tell a tearful Yazmin Oukhellou that she needed to stop talking to her ex boyfriend James during last week's TOWIE Christmas special.

The Essex native acted as a mediator between the former couple after the pair struggled to end all contact following their emotional split.

Playful: The TOWIE stars, aged 31 and 33, playfully tackled each other as they headed out towards their taxi home

In scenes on The Only Way Is Essexmas, he told Yaz: 'You both obviously care about each other. Together you're a nightmare.'

Early in the episode, Yaz told Bobby Norris, 33, Georgia Kousoulou, 28, Tommy Mallet, 27, and Chloe Brockett, 19, her ex had called her.

'We've got a joint storage place. He said he's changed the lock so if I want it I have to go to him,' she vented.

Dapper: Meanwhile James cut a fashionable figure in an all-black ensemble including a black leather jacket, T-shirt, jeans and boots

And in the next scene Lockie, 33, told Pete there 'are things we need to talk about' as he defended his decision to stay in touch with his ex.

He said: 'I got a big heart. We've still got things. We're interlocked. We've got storage, businesses. There are things we need to talk about.'

During an emotional showdown later in the episode, Pete acted as a mediator between the former couple, telling them they had to let each other go.

'Together you're a nightmare': It comes after Pete told a tearful Yazmin Oukhellou she needed to cut communication with ex boyfriend James during TOWIE's Christmas special

He added: 'It's not love it's an obsession. I like you as a person but you're as bad as each other.

'He does still care about you. He's worried about you. It's so raw for the both of you the worst thing you can do is keep talking.'

After Lockie apologised for his behaviour during their relationship Yaz started crying as she told Georgia, Gemma and Bobby: 'I'm not buying it.

'The worst thing you can do is keep talking': During a showdown later in the show Pete acted as a mediator between the former couple, telling them they had to let each other go

'I'm sometimes a s**t girlfriend but I didn't deserve this. It's hurtful just seeing him like this. I never want to be with him again, he's hurt me that much.'

According to The Sun, the June split came about after Yazmin accused James of cheating on her.

A source said: 'Yaz and Lockie have been at loggerheads and it’s been a rather toxic split.

Happier times: Early in The Only Way Is Essexmas episode, Yaz told her friends that her ex had called her (pictured in 2018)

'She and Lockie recently had an argument where she confronted him about his apparent cheating.

'Yaz said, "I was on my hands and knees to this girl, begging her, asking if she had slept with my boyfriend, if my boyfriend had cheated on me and she said she had".'

James has denied the cheating claims and insisted he was faithful during their relationship.

The insider added that Yazmin's friends believe she will not get back with James again and that their relationship is now over for good.