Today's Birthday, December 22: American artist Jean-Michel Basquiat (1960-1988)

Jean-Michel Basquiat died in the 1980s at age 27, but over 30 years later and halfway across the world, his genre-redefining artwork is being displayed at the National Gallery of Victoria.

The Crossing Lines exhibition offers a rare insight into the work of Basquiat and fellow prolific New York artist Keith Haring.

It takes viewers from the gritty Basquiat pieces painted on various subways of New York to his best-known gallery paintings displayed in a black light room.

"Crossing Lines may well be the riskiest exhibition the NGV has staged in its more than 150-year history," Sasha Grishin, adjunct Professor of Art History at the Australian National University, said.

"Nothing quite prepares you for the impact of this exhibition. It is confronting, highly emotional, intimate, intensely personal and, at times, excruciatingly honest," he said.

Jean-Michel Basquiat was born in Brooklyn, New York, to Haitian and Puerto Rican parents.

From a young age he excelled at art and developed a sense for foreign languages, but was kicked out of home at the age of 15 by his father.

According to a New York Times profile, Basquiat was homeless for a long while, living in Washington Square Park where he developed his graffiti style and an appetite for drugs.

By the early 1980s he had risen to the top of the tight circles of the underground NY art scene and was noticed by mainstream critics and dealers after appearing in a multi-artist exhibition called The Times Square Show.

Basquiat eventually met his idol Andy Warhol and the two began working together, but as his star rose in the art world, his addiction to heroin worsened.

The last years of his life were characterised by a battle with the drug that eventually took his life in the summer of 1988.

In his New York Times obituary, Tony Shafrazi, a Manhattan gallery owner, said Basquiat believed his work was important.

"'He was afraid his work wouldn't be seen until he was dead," Mr Shafrazi said.

Since his death, Basquiat has become one of the biggest artistic figures to emerge from 1980s New York.