Panic Saturday has seen one in four adults hit the shops in a £1.7billion 'hangover dash' spending spree - after the wildest night of the year.

The frantic shoppers, who enjoyed a night of partying after finishing work for the holidays, rushed to the high street this morning to purchase their festive gifts after pay day and snap up the latest offers before Christmas Day next week.

The findings, which come from a survey conducted by the Centre for Retail Research study for VoucherCodes, also found a 75 per cent price cut will boost spending during the last-gasp festive rush after a December shopping slump followed Black Friday.

One in four adults in the UK hit the stores in a £1.7billion 'hangover dash' spending spree after finishing work for the holidays last night. (Stock image)

Their findings, which analysed 80 major UK retailers and 1,000 shoppers, also showed that 10.1million UK shoppers will spend £1.41bn in stores on Saturday, with £268m spent online after being attracted by the promise of a last-minute delivery service.

Spending trends produced by Westfield shopping centres have also revealed that Saturday is due to the biggest spending day of the year at their stores- surpassing that of Black Friday and Boxing Day.

Professor Joshua Bamfield, director of the Centre for Retail Research, said: 'Saturday was seeing ashen-faced shoppers with a headache after a big Friday night out.

'These people are also the most disorganised shoppers, with some not even having started their Christmas shopping.

Director of the Centre for Retail Research Professor Joshua Bamfield (pictured) said people are spending again after a quiet start to December after Black Friday

A high street survey conducted by the Centre for Retail Research study for VoucherCodes showed that Saturday will be a panic as people head to the shops for the first time. (Stock image)

'So they were shooting round the shops as they have friends to meet later, probably back in the pub.

'Saturday will be a panic as there are people shopping for the first time, as well as organised shoppers who want to buy their last gifts and get their feet up by Saturday night ready for Christmas.

'People are spending again after a quiet start to December after Black Friday, with the level of promotions encouraging spending.'