Fiorentina have sacked coach Vincenzo Montella following the club's 4-1 defeat to Roma on Friday night.

The club's new owners finally lost patience with Montella after their most recent defeat saw them go seven games without a win.

The 43-year-old's second stint at the Serie A club lasted only eight months and produced a modest record of six wins, seven draws and 14 defeats in 27 matches in all competitions.

Vincenzo Montella has been sacked as manager of Fiorentina after a seven game winless run

Two of those wins were in the Coppa Italia against lower-division sides.

Fiorentina said in a statement that 'the decision was taken following a long and detailed analysis of the team's performances and results.'

'Given the need to rediscover the necessary grit and determination on the pitch and produce an immediate turnaround, the owners and management decided that a change of coach was the best option,' it added.

Montella, previously in charge for three seasons between 2012 and 2015, returned in April but his team lost five of their first six games under his leadership and only escaped relegation with a 0-0 draw at home to Genoa in their final match of last season.

The team began the 2019-20 season with new hope after American billionaire Rocco Commisso bought the club in June in a deal reported to be valued at €160million euros (£136m).

The new owners immediately strengthened the squad, signing Brazilian forward Pedro, Chilean midfielder Erick Pulgar, Liverpool teenager Bobby Duncan as well as veteran French winger Franck Ribery, who joined after nine seasons at Bayern Munich, and also managed to hold on to forward Federico Chiesa.

Lorenzo Pellegrini scored as Roma's 4-1 win over Fiorentina was the end for Vincenzo Montella

Yet apart from a run of three successive wins in late September and early October, the team failed to click and Montella was not helped by the absence of Ribery, who was given a three-match suspension for pushing a linesman and then had to undergo ankle surgery.

Montella became the eighth coach to lose his job in Serie A this season.

'The club would like to thank Vincenzo Montella for his efforts and commitment in recent months and we wish him every success in the next chapter of his career,' said the statement.

Fiorentina, who are two-time Serie A champions, have not won a major trophy since being re-founded in 2002 following bankruptcy.