Early skiers are set to enjoy a bumper snowfall in the alps this year, as the season gets off to the 'best start in 20 years'.

The flurry of white stuff will bring joy to hundreds of thousands of eager Britons set to descend on the slopes as they make the most of the Christmas and New Year holiday.

It comes after previous seasons got off to a slow start due to an inadequate snow fall, which has been blamed on climate change.

Flurry of snow will bring joy to hundreds of thousands of eager Britons set to descend on the slopes for the Christmas and New Year holiday. Pictured above is a ski resort

At least 15cm are expected to fall over three days next week

Editor of InTheSnow magazine, Patrick Thorne, told The Times: 'This is turning into one of the best starts to a season this century for most of the ski world.

'This is thanks to large and regular snow dumps since early November, the latest of which is coming this weekend.'

At least 15cm of snow is expected to fall over the alps across three days next week, according to forecasters, and resorts in France could receive as much as 25cm tomorrow and on Monday.

In the Austrian alps snow fall is expected every day from Sunday to Friday, except Thursday, and in the Italian alps snowfall is expected right through until Tuesday. Switzerland is also expecting snow in places over the next five days.

Mild weather in France, Switzerland, Austria and Germany left lower ski slopes almost completely bare in December 2015, after anticipated snowfall failed to materialise.

Snowfall is expected across Austria, France, Italy and Switzerland. Pictured above is a skier

At least 15cm of snow is expected to fall across the alps over three days next week. (Pictured: Woman walking in the snow-covered alps)

At the village of Leysin, Switzerland, which sits at an altitude of 4,130ft, the slopes were devoid of snow except for thin strips of man-made powder.

Resorts have previously turned to snow machines to produce the treasured flakes after snowfall became increasingly unpredictable.

'Ten to 20 years ago you could always plan (on) the natural snowfall. In the middle of November, start of December there was a big snowfall every year,' resorts spokesman Mathias Imoberdorf told Wired.

'Now it’s unpredictable.'