Broadcaster and former government equality tsar Trevor Phillips has said the 'woke' BBC is facing an existential crisis over its political correctness and rampant 'Toryscepticism'.

The documentary-maker, who has made several programmes with the Corporation, savaged the broadcaster's 'morbid obsession' with Boris Johnson's private life and controversial articles he wrote as a journalist.

In the extraordinary intervention where he claimed the BBC risks 'digging its own grave', he also slammed the 'pillorying' of Breakfast presenter Naga Munchetty after she accused Donald Trump of racism.

While defending the BBC as the 'nation's most important cultural institution', he understood why it is in the Prime Minister's firing line.

Broadcaster and former government equality tsar Trevor Phillips has said the 'woke' BBC is facing an existential crisis over its political correctness and rampant 'Toryscepticism'

Boris Johnson (pictured arriving in Tapa, Estonia, today) is mooting decriminalising non-payment of the licence fee

Mr Johnson has mooted decriminalising non-payment of the licence fee and Downing Street is boycotting the broadcaster's flagship current affairs show, Radio 4's Today programme.

Writing in the Times, Phillips, 65, said: 'From the constant sly digs in its comedies, to its relentless fascination with minor players in the Conservative soap opera, it breathes Toryscepticism.

'Its drama adopts the opposition's catastrophist agenda, painting Britain's leaders as incompetent fools manipulated by malevolent, conspiratorial geniuses.

'And its morbid obsession with the prime minister's private life and his past writings, despite the fact that neither has the remotest bearing on the nation's future, invite the eye of Sauron to look out from Downing Street each day in search of enemies in New Broadcasting House.'

Phillips, who from 2003 to 2006 was chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality, also took aim at the 'woke behaviour' of the BBC.

He also suggested it moved to quickly to speculate on same sex dance couples on Strictly without assessing the cultural landscape first.

The documentary-maker, who has made several programmes with the Corporation, savaged the broadcaster's 'morbid obsession' with Boris Johnson's private life and controversial articles he wrote as a journalist (pictured with Naga Munchetty during a spiky election interview)

He also suggested it moved to quickly to speculate on same sex dance couples on Strictly without assessing the cultural landscape first.

The broadcaster wrote: 'Worst of all, the increasingly "woke" behaviour by the corporation is endangering the central justification for special treatment, which is its universal reach...

'The BBC has to recognise social change, sure, but it is not the institution's role to lead it; speculating about same-sex couples on Strictly, when the ballroom dancing world has not yet considered such a change, feels like putting the political cart before the cultural horse.'

Phillips ends with a stark warning to the BBC, which he says is in 'danger' of being squeezed by online media such as Netflix and will not be bailed out by the government

Phillips ends with a stark warning to the BBC, which he says is in 'danger' of being squeezed by online media such as Netflix and will not be bailed out by the government.

The Prime Minister has asked his top advisers to draw up a review of the mandatory £154.50 annual fee and whether viewers should be prosecuted for not paying it.

Downing Street has already imposed a blanket ban on ministers appearing on its flagship Today programme.

Mr Johnson has made his lukewarm feelings about the BBC clear, pledging to reconsider the licence fee in the campaign.