Sophie Monk has made it no secret that she wants to marry boyfriend Joshua Gross one day.

And it seems he may have finally popped the question to the Love Island Australia host, 40, after she flashed a beautiful engagement-esque ring in an Instagram video posted on Saturday.

The couple are currently enjoying a lavish holiday at the luxurious Club Med La Plantation d'Albion in Mauritius.

Something to tell us? Sophie Monk fuelled engagement speculation after flashing a beautiful diamond ring on Instagram on Saturday

She shared a clip of herself doing her makeup in a one-minute tutorial.

Feeling up to smashing the challenge she confidently told him: 'I can get my makeup on in one minute!'

She skipped putting on a foundation base for her flawless visage and went straight to applying highlighter on her cheek bones, forehead and cupid's bow.

The blonde beauty applied a swipe of colour on her eyelids and while doing so displayed the sparkler on her left hand.

Living it up! Sophie and Joshua are currently enjoying a lavish holiday at the luxurious Club Med La Plantation d'Albion in Mauritius

'I can get my makeup on in one minute': Sophie applied a swipe of colour on her eyelids and while doing so displayed the sparkler on her left hand

She then combed through a lashing of mascara, again putting the ring on show, before putting on her lip gloss and using the excess as blush on her cheeks.

Sophie then undid her blonde tresses and ran her fingers through them to add volume before declaring she was 'ready'.

In the comments, a few eagle-eyed fans were quick to notice the diamond, including one who wrote: 'ERM... that's a giant ring on THAT finger...'

But Sophie kept coy and replied: 'It's shot in the mirror'.

Putting the ring on show: She then swiped through a lashing of mascara, again putting the ring on show, before putting on her Model Co lip gloss and using the excess as blush on her cheeks

Another fan chimed speculated: 'Unless he is filming into the mirror then that would make it the wrong hand. Are you left handed or right handed?'

Ever careful with her response, the blonde bombshell wrote back: 'Your reverse psychology worked.'

Last month, Sophie sent fans into overdrive when she showed off what appeared to be the exact same ring while doing her make-up.

Trick shot? She declared she was ready with time to spare, but in the comments few eagle-eyed fans were quick to notice the diamond including one who wrote: 'ERM... that's a giant ring on THAT finger...'. But Sophie kept coy and replied: 'It's shot in the mirror'

Engaged? Last month, Sophie seemingly showed off the stunning diamond ring in a previous Instagram video causing fans to speculate that boyfriend Joshua had indeed proposed to her

Back in October, NW magazine reported Sophie's marketing executive beau was planning to propose to Sophie in Fiji.

The source claimed the businessman, 40, even brought over Sophie's favourite champagne from Australia for the occasion.

Sophie told the The Daily Telegraph back in September that she had been putting pressure on Joshua to propose.

'I am pushing every day': Sophie admitted that she had been pressuring him to propose to her, but she drew the line at proposing to him saying: 'I know nowadays it is okay, but something in me, I don't know… I just want it [the traditional] way'

'I am pushing every day,' she told the newspaper. But the singer-turned-TV and radio presenter confessed she draws the line at popping the question herself.

'I know nowadays it is okay, but something in me, I don't know… I just want it that way,' she said of having Joshua be the one to propose to her.

Sophie met Joshua on a flight from Europe to Australia last year after she finished filming season one of Love Island.