Prison inspectors have called for jailbirds to be allowed their own mobile phones.

A report out yesterday from inspectors at the Independent Monitoring Board (IMB) said that some 'blue sky thinking' was needed to stop the trade in 'contraband' mobile phones smuggled into the UK's jails.

Each year around 20,000 phones and SIM cards are found by prison staff, with phones selling for up to £1,000.

Mini phones, called Zanco Fly phones - the world's smallest mobile phone at just two-inches long - trade hands for anything up to £500.

Phones are also 'hired' out to other lags for between £20-£100-a-night.

In a report out into HMP Thorn Cross, a 380-capacity open prison in Cheshire, bosses at the IMB said that contraband - including mobile phones, food and booze - entering the prison was 'problematic'.

The report focused on HMP Thorn Cross, a 380-capacity open prison in Cheshire. It said that contraband - including mobile phones, food and booze - entering the prison was 'problematic'

It stated: 'Contraband entering the establishment continues to be problematic.

'In the reporting year there have been incidences of mobile phones, SIM cards, phone chargers and even fresh meat and alcohol.'

In a note in the report for 'the minister' - Secretary of State for Justice Robert Buckland and Prisons Minister Lucy Frazer QC - in the 'main areas for development' section of the report, the IMB called for lags to be given their own mobile phones.

It said that a £10m scheme launched in 2018 to provide in-cell landlines to some prisons was 'unfair' as the costs to make calls to those who didn't have access to in-cell phones were substantially higher.

Between 20-30 jails across the UK currently have in-cell phones installed so lags can make calls from their cells - which are monitored and numbers approved first - although that will rise to 50 jails by next year.

Mini phones, called Zanco Fly phones (pictured) - the world's smallest mobile phone at just two-inches long - trade hands for anything up to £500

The IMB report out on Friday stated: 'To the Minister - There is a significant disparity between in-cell and on-wing telephone charges within the Prison Service.

'We view this as totally unfair and are further told that as an open prison there are no immediate plans for in-cell telephony for Thorn Cross.

'We understand this, but do not understand the disparity. It is grossly unfair to the men, as keeping in touch with families prior to release, particularly in open conditions, is a mainstay of the regime.

'It is out of kilter with modern standards and we urge the Minister to address this as an urgent issue, which is not complex and would have synergistic results.

'Once again, the availability of mobile phones, SIM cards, and other devices having a high currency value within a prison needs addressing.

'The possession of these devices can lead to other problems such as bullying, harassment of family and friends and utilisation of social media whilst incarcerated plus the continuation of 'business'.

'Perhaps a total rethink on this issue of mobile phones is now appropriate with restricted use of the prisoner's own mobile for prescribed numbers, monitored conditions and being kept in secure storage.

'Some "Blue Sky" thinking is much overdue in our opinion, we seem to be clinging onto a very outdated attitude.'

A Ministry of Justice spokesman said: 'There are no plans to allow prisoners to use mobile phones. Mobiles in prison fuel violence and crime.

'Any prisoner found using one can face an extra two years behind bars.

'This government is spending £100 million on x-ray scanners and phone-blocking technology to make sure prisoners can only access telephones with pre-approved numbers.'