A family have been left devastated as they went to visit their son's grave and found a huge mound of soil had been dumped on top of it.

Steven Riddoch had been to visit his son William's grave at St Oswald's Cemetery in Blankney, Lincolnshire on Wednesday when he discovered gravediggers had piled soil on the grave.

His son was just under six year's old when he died in November 2003 after contracting pneumonia.

Steven Riddoch had been to visit his son William's grave at St Oswald's Cemetery in Blankney, Lincolnshire on Wednesday when he discovered gravediggers had piled soil on the grave

The soil had been dug from a grave next to his son's in preparation for a funeral on Friday.

But the soil was left on top of William's grave, which Steven said just shows a huge lack of respect.

He said: 'I just couldn't believe what I was seeing.

The soil put on top had been dug from a grave next to his son's in preparation for a funeral on Friday

'It just shows a huge lack of respect. My little boy is under there. Christmas is always a difficult time and couple that with the fact that the anniversary of his death is in November and his birthday in January.

'They said that they did it so that people didn't walk on it, but I'm sure that they could have found somewhere better than where they did put it.

'To me it just shows a lack of respect and lazy gravediggers.

'They even left their tools on the top of his grave as well.

His son was just under six year's old when he died in November 2003 after contracting pneumonia

'I want to make sure that the weight hasn't caused it to crush his coffin. The plot was lovely before and I want to make sure that it gets back to that.

'I feel a bit like getting my shovel and putting it all back where it came from.

'I just feel angry that they've just had no respect and felt that they could do that.'

Continental Landscapes, which dug the grave, did not wish to comment.

Steven added: 'I have been offered some flowers as an apology.

'I don't feel that is good enough. If anything comes of this I want it to go towards a worthy cause.

'My son was paralysed from the chest down when he was born.

'He attended St Francis special school.

'So it would be great if a donation could be given to them to help people who attend that school.'