Advertisement

Oscar-winner Marion Cotillard has been pictured hugging Anna Karina's widower after the French new wave icon died aged 79.

The Allied star arrived at the Chapelle de l'Est of the Pere Lachaise cemetery in Paris for the funeral of the French-Danish actress Anna Karina, earlier today.

At 21, Marion worked with Karina in a dark tale of prostitution in Chloé, directed by Karina's fourth husband Dennis Berry.

Oscar-winner Marion Cotillard held on to Anna Karina's widower Dennis Berry at the French new wave's funeral at the Chapelle de l'Est of the Pere Lachaise cemetery in Paris, today

She braced the cold in an oversized coat and turquoise turtle neck as she headed to the funeral where she would join Mr Berry who directed her break-out film Chloé

And now actress has been photographed wrapped in an oversized fleecy coat and turquoise turtle-neck gripping on to American director Mr Berry as they pay tribute to the French icon in a private ceremony.

Karina, who epitomized 60s chic, starred in seven films made by her first husband Jean-Luc Godard, including 'Pierrot Le Fou' and Bande à Part.

She hitchhiked to Paris from her native Denmark to try to become an actress where she went on to win Best Actress in the Berlin film festival for 'A Woman is a Woman' in 1961.

The pair shared a tender moment as they paid tribute to Karina. The actress, who epitomized 60s chic, starred in seven films made by her first husband Jean-Luc Godard, including 'Pierrot Le Fou' and Bande à Part

The Allied star worked with Karina at 21 in Chloé in 1996. She shared a heartfelt tribute on Instagram: 'Anna I love you. I was so lucky to be bathed at a young age by your love, your joy, your kindness, and your kindness. I wish you a wonderful journey.'

An enlarged print of Karina is seen on the side of the cemetery next to flowers spread across the steps, earlier today

Spectre star Lea Seydoux greets other mourners at the funeral. Culture Minister Franck Riester said 'French cinema has been orphaned' on the day of Karina's death

A man stands to admire the photo of Karina in Paris, earlier today. The cinematic legend won Best Actress at the Berlin film festival for 'A Woman is a Woman' in 1961

She died in a Paris hospital of the effects of throat cancer, her agent Laurent Balandras announced on December 15.

'Today, French cinema has been orphaned. It has lost one of its legends,' Culture Minister Franck Riester tweeted.

Marion shared a touching message on Instagram: 'Anna I love you. I was so lucky to be bathed at a young age by your love, your joy, your kindness, and your kindness. I wish you a wonderful journey.'

French actor Charles Berling, who toured with Karina in September for a film panel on Live Your Life, made an appearance at the funeral



