Keira Maguire has revealed that she had very different plans for her life.

Responding to a fan on Instagram on Friday, the 33-year-old confessed that she had dreams of becoming a real estate agent.

The reality star wrote: 'I used to work in corporate sales for 10 years within the real estate industry.

'This isn't the life I planned': Keira Maguire (pictured) revealed on Friday that she never wanted to become an influencer and hoped to own a real estate agency

'Until I went on my third reality TV show where I couldn't juggle working full time taking time off to film shows, working with brands, doing campaigns and collaborations, TV commercials etc.

'This isn't the life I planned. I thought I would own a real estate agency by now, but these are the cards I was dealt and I'm very grateful for the life I live.'

Keira first appeared on The Bachelor in 2016, followed by I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here! in 2017 and then Bachelor In Paradise in 2018.

Another way: Responding to a fan on Instagram Stories on Friday, the 33-year-old confessed that she had dreams of becoming a real estate agent

She's due to make a return to Bachelor in Paradise for the second time for the 2020 season, which will make it her fourth reality show.

It comes after the blonde revealed she was left bedridden after an extreme facial.

She took to Instagram on Friday and revealed she had undergone CO2RE laser treatment.

The former reality star shared a photo of the bottom half of her body laid up in bed and revealed in a caption that she is housebound due to the treatment.

The reality star wrote: 'I used to work in corporate sales for 10 years within the real estate industry. Until I went on my third reality TV show where I couldn't juggle working full time taking time off to filming shows'

She added: 'This isn't the life I planned. I thought I would own a real estate agency by now, but these are the cards I was dealt and I'm very grateful for the life I live'

She wrote: 'Currently can't leave my house as I've had CO2RE laser on my face which is hectic. I'm hoping that I only need three sessions as it's 7-10 days down time. But it's worth the results.'

Kieira also revealed in her post she had the treatment at Candela Medical Australia & NZ clinic.

It's unclear how much that particular clinic charges but the average cost per session for the CO2RE laser treatment is $750.

The quest for perfect skin: Keira revealed on Friday, via an Instagram post, that she's 'unable to leave the house' for seven days after undergoing an extreme laser facial

Answering a fan, she further explained: 'I can not wait to see the results. I'm hoping that I only need three sessions as it's 7-10 days down time. But it's worth the results'

The treatment involves a laser removing layers of tissue in order to resurface the skin, creating microscopic holes in the skin using a fractional carbon dioxide laser.

The treatment reduces the appearance of wrinkles, scarring, dull skin tone and thinning collagen and patients must allow for between one week, to two weeks, of down time, after the treatment.

After the procedure, patients can expect to feel a sensation like sunburn, followed by swelling and peeling, and sun is best avoided.