She has established a successful career as a model and actress.

And Poppy Delevingne used the pavement as her catwalk on Friday night as she joined husband James Cook at Noel Gallagher's star-studded Christmas bash at Scott's restaurant in Mayfair.

The Riviera star, 33, embraced the festive theme and looked effortlessly chic in a black feathered mini dress with a tailored coat to keep her warm.

Gorgeous: Poppy Delevingne used the pavement as her catwalk on Friday night as she joined husband James Cook at Noel Gallagher's star-studded Christmas bash at Scott's restaurant in Mayfair

While her husband James looked dapper in a burgundy velvet blazer worn over a funky patterned shirt, paired with black jeans and casual Nike trainers.

Poppy put on a leggy display in a pair of sheer polka dot tights teamed with black heeled ankle boots.

Showcasing her festive spirit, the model had her hair pulled back off her face with a chunky gold beaded headband, she added a slick of glamorous make-up.

Feeling festive: The Riviera star, 33, embraced the festive theme and looked effortlessly chic in a black feathered mini dress with a tailored coat to keep her warm

Loved-up: While her husband James looked dapper in a burgundy velvet blazer worn over a funky patterned shirt, paired with black jeans and casual Nike trainers

The pair appeared in good spirits as they joined Noel Gallagher himself, 52, and his wife Sara MacDonald, 47, who hosted the occasion.

The Oasis frontman and his wife met almost 20 years ago in a nightclub in Ibiza and they looked every bit relaxed as they celebrated the evening with their friends.

The singer looked dapper in a black polo neck which he wore underneath a smart leather jacket, while his publicist wife Sara stole the show in a fitted black mini dress.

Big smile: Poppy put on a leggy display in a pair of sheer polka dot tights teamed with black heeled ankle boots

Poppy, who has had small roles in The Aspern Papers and Kingsmen: The Golden Circle, most recently starred in the second series of Sky Atlantic's Riviera.

And as a successful model, Poppy has graced the covers of Harpers Bazaar, Glamour and starred in campaigns alongside her younger sibling Cara, who has been listed as one of the world's highest earning models by Forbes magazine.

Since marrying James Cook in a lavish ceremony in 2014, the pair have appeared together at A-list events and are often seen displaying their love for fashion.