Lauren Goodger put on a show-stopping display as she emerged on Friday night following her shock Cyanide sting earlier in the week.

The TOWIE star, 33, was showing off her stunning figure as she stepped out in a racy ensemble comprising of a body and tight trousers for the night out.

While she appeared carefree, Lauren's outing comes after it emerged that she was controversially duped into promoting cyanide in a BBC sting.

Wow: Lauren Goodger put on a show-stopping display as she emerged on Friday night following her shock Cyanide sting earlier in the week

Lauren looked sensational as she displayed her incredible figure - including her surgically-enhanced cleavage and totally flat stomach.

She appeared to be moving on from the scandal, in which she was filmed during a meeting where she was asked to promote a fake diet drink named Cyanora.

In the BBC Three documentary Blindboy Undestroys the World, Lauren was asked to advertise the drink despite it not even being ready for production.

It was part of an investigation by the show into whether celebrities actually consume the products which they are paid to promote to their followers on social media.

Peachy: The TOWIE star, 33, was showing off her stunning figure as she stepped out in a racy ensemble comprising of a body and tight trousers for the night out

The drink was said to contain hydrogen cyanide, a deadly chemical used in both world wars, including at the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp in the 1940s.

Lauren's fellow The Only Way Is Essex star Mike Hassini, 25, and Love Island contestant Zara Holland, 24, were also filmed during the sting.

They were told among the ingredients of the new drink was hydrogen cyanide - which was used as chemical weapon by the French during the First World War.

The chemical was also used by Nazi Germany during the Second World War for disinfection and pest extermination on ships, before they used it in gas chambers.

Cheeky! Lauren looked sensational as she displayed her incredible figure - including her surgically-enhanced cleavage and totally flat stomach

In the show, Lauren talks about her promoting another product called Skinny Coffee, which she previously claimed had helped her lose 12lbs in three weeks.

But her agent tells the seller: 'Half these posts you see that people do, they're not even trying them half the time.' She adds: 'I never tried Skinny Coffee.'

The seller then adds: 'Because we were a bit worried that maybe you'd want to, you'd need to try it, before you mention it - no, not bothered?'

But Lauren replies: 'No. 'I've even had my own friends message me Laur, can you get me some of that Skinny Coffee, does it work?

Shocker: Lauren was secretly filmed during a meeting where she was asked to promote a fake diet drink named Cyanora on her Instagram (pictured)

'I'm like, do you not know this by now? And they're actually going and buying it, and I'm like, you know how this works.'

The reality star went on to film a video clip for the fake drink, which saw her struggling to pronounce the product name, calling it 'hydrone cydnide'.

A representative for Lauren told MailOnline: 'Lauren was asked to go to an audition by her old management to attend a meeting to appear in an advert for a new water.

'There was no mention of what the water contained before the meeting. The money on the table was quite a large sum which was offered.'