Carlo Ancelotti watched Everton's match against Arsenal from the stands at Goodison Park after being confirmed as the Toffees' new manager.

Caretaker manager Duncan Ferguson takes charge of the match with the Gunners but Ancelotti is in attendance for the Saturday lunchtime kick-off.

Ancelotti flew in to Liverpool from Naples on a private jet on Saturday morning and Everton made the official announcement of his appointment at 11.20am.

Carlo Ancelotti waves the Everton fans after taking his seat in the directors' box at Goodison

The Italian boss watched the game with Arsenal alongside chairman Bill Kenwright and owner Farhad Moshiri

Ancelotti checks his watch ahead of kick-off as he watched his new team play Arsenal

Excited to share the news that I am joining Everton FC. I am delighted to be back in the Premier League and to be part of this historic club. Thank you for your trust in me. #WelcomeMrAncelotti #EFC #COYB pic.twitter.com/13yhM5iHnK — Carlo Ancelotti (@MrAncelotti) December 21, 2019

Ancelotti smiled and waves at the waiting fans as he arrived at the stadium some 45 minutes before kick-off.

Flanked by Everton chairman Bill Kenwright and owner Farhad Moshiri, Ancelotti then took in the game.

He was sat just a couple of rows in front of the new Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta.

Ancelotti has agreed a four-and-a-half year contract with the club until June 2024.

Everton have been searching for a new manager since the sacking of Marco Silva on December 5, in the wake of a 5-2 Merseyside derby defeat to Liverpool that left the team down in 18th place.

New Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta glances at Ancelotti as they watch the match

Ancelotti speaks with Everton's director of football Marcel Brands ahead of kick-off

Ferguson has taken charge of four matches - a 3-1 win over Chelsea, a 1-1 draw against Manchester United, the Carabao Cup quarter-final loss to Leicester City and the contest with Arsenal.

But Ancelotti, 60, who has formerly managed European heavyweights Juventus, AC Milan, Chelsea, Paris Saint-Germain, Real Madrid, Bayern Munich and Napoli, is set to take up the reins.

New Everton manager Carlo Ancelotti waves at fans as he arrives at Goodison Park

Ancelotti is set to watch the Saturday lunchtime clash with Arsenal from the stands

Ancelotti's picture features on the big screen at Goodison Park ahead of kick-off

Ancelotti has signed a four-and-a-half year contract to take charge of the Toffees

Ancelotti's first games Premier League unless stated December 26 Burnley (H) December 28 Newcastle United (A) January 1 Manchester City (A) January 5 Liverpool (A) FA Cup third round January 11 Brighton (H) January 18 West Ham (A)

His first game at the helm will be on Boxing Day at home to Burnley.

Ancelotti confirmed that Ferguson will remain a part of his backroom staff.

'This is a great club with a rich history and a very passionate fan base,' Ancelotti said.

'There is a clear vision from the owner and the Board to deliver success and trophies. That is something that appeals to me as a manager and I am thrilled at the prospect of being able to work with everybody at the Club to help make that vision a reality.

'I have seen from the performances in the last two weeks that the players are capable of so much. The work Duncan has done is a great credit to him.

'Strong organisation, strong discipline and the right motivation are some of the key ingredients in football and I'm pleased that he will be part of my backroom team moving forward.'