Caroline Flack and Lewis Burton have unfollowed each other on Instagram – just hours before the ex-Love Island host appeared in court to deny assaulting her boyfriend.

MailOnline can reveal the embattled TV presenter, 40, no longer has Lewis, 27, as a contact on the photo-sharing site.

It comes just a day after Caroline revealed the ordeal had been the 'worst time of my life' after she was charged with assault following an altercation at her London home with her model boyfriend earlier this month.

Tense: Caroline Flack and Lewis Burton have unfollowed each other on Instagram – just hours before the ex- Love Island host appeared in court to deny assaulting her boyfriend

Despite the charges, Caroline and Lewis have remained united – with the tennis coach posting in support of his girlfriend, who was forced to step down as Love Island host last week.

He even shared a throwback image of Caroline on the app on Sunday, showing her sat on the back of a plane alongside the caption: 'I love this girl. Take the backseat darling.'

Caroline concerned fans with her most recent post, which read: 'This is the worst time of my life. I don't know where to go to. Where to look. Who to trust. Or who I even am.'

Lewis defended Caroline on social media, saying she had become the subject of a 'witch hunt' following her arrest.

He's also posted multiple pictures of him and Caroline with love heart emojis, calling his girlfriend 'loyal and kind' and undeserving of the charges.

No longer friends: MailOnline can reveal the embattled TV presenter, 40, no longer has Lewis, 27, as a contact on the photo-sharing site

Unfollowed: Lewis has done the same – in a move that could be to convince the court that they haven't been in contact since the incident took place between them earlier this month

Caroline has remained vocal in her feelings towards Lewis, publicly declaring her love for him in a statement after stepping down from Love Island.

Revealing the reason behind her decision to quit the ITV2 show, Caroline added: 'and my boyfriend Lewis… I love you.'

Lewis arrived at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court on Monday to continue his show of support for Caroline.

The TV host followed looking solemn wearing an all-black outfit while clutching the arm of a mystery woman.

The court heard how the TV presenter hit her boyfriend over the head with a lamp while he was sleeping after looking at text messages which made her think he was having an affair.

Court appearance: Caroline was pictured looking solemn as she arrived at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court on Monday morning, dressed in a black coat and scarf

The couple were both allegedly covered in blood when police arrived at their flat in Islington, north London, on December 12 - with one officer describing the chaotic scene as 'like a horror movie'.

The ITV host was accused of 'going mad' and smashing a glass at 5am - with former tennis player Burton saying in a 999 call that she 'tried to kill me' and called him an 'a***hole'.

He was said to have been 'almost begging the operator to send help' with his face 'covered in blood', while Flack allegedly had two cuts to her wrist.

After being taken into custody, Flack – whom the court heard was 'manipulative' towards Burton and accused him of ruining her life - allegedly flipped over a table and had to be restrained on the ground by police.

United: Lewis defended Caroline on social media, saying she had become the subject of a 'witch hunt' following her arrest (pictured together in October)

Her boyfriend was left with 'significant head injuries' and claimed in the 999 call that Flack had 'cracked my head open', but the court heard Flack wants to 'spend time' with him over the Christmas and New Year period.

Flack broke down into floods of tears after she entered the court lobby, and was sobbing as a friend supported her. She also cried again when she sat in the dock - and pleaded not guilty to common assault.

The television star was arrested and charged with assault by beating on December 13 – and has since been forced to step down from presenting the first winter series of Love Island in Cape Town this January.

Caroline's close pal Laura Whitmore, 34, has been announced as her replacement with the Irish presenter saying she wishes it was in 'better circumstances.'

Standing in: Caroline's close pal Laura Whitmore, 34, has been announced as her replacement on Love Island, with the Irish TV star saying she wishes it was in 'better circumstances'

It has been reported that Caroline has vowed to start a course of intensive counselling following her court case.

She is also considering a long-term residential stay in a £15,000-a-week Thai retreat in order to escape watching Love Island on TV this January.

Caroline said she was 'devastated' to give up her role as presenter after being at the helm of the series for the last five years.

Friends close to the star say she 'hasn't stopped crying' and is at 'breaking point' following crisis talks with ITV bosses that led to her resignation.