The Mesut Ozil conundrum is set to be top of Mikel Arteta's in-tray at Arsenal after the German midfielder didn't travel for interim Freddie Ljungberg's final game in charge at Everton.

The Gunners caretaker didn't pull any punches about Ozil's behaviour as he signed off from the hot seat. He claimed a foot injury prevented Ozil from playing at Goodison but made it clear he wouldn't have selected him anyway because of the player's reaction to being substituted against Manchester City last weekend.

'He (Ozil) walked off and kicked the drinks bottle. The fans were not happy, it is not how we behave at Arsenal,' said Ljungberg. 'Mesut was injured (for Everton) but I would not have picked him for the squad because I wanted to make a stance.

Mesut Ozil was left out for Arsenal's trip to Everton after his strop against Man City

Interim boss Freddie Ljungberg said he's out with injury but would have dropped him anyway

'That is not what I accept from an Arsenal football player and that is my decision. I know I won't be taking the decisions again but that is what I think.'

Ozil, 31, has been a divisive figure among the club's supporters since signing a record £350,000-a-week contract. Previous manager Unai Emery axed him from the team but couldn't find any other buyers who would match his salary.

Arteta played with World Cup winner in his own time at Arsenal and Ozil gave the new boss an effusive welcome on social media on Friday. However with Turkish clubs interested in taking him on loan, Arteta faces a major decision whether to try and rehabilitate the talented playmaker in north London.

Freddie #Ljungberg in his final match as main boss of Arsenal #evears pic.twitter.com/05WT34Z54O — Stadium Astro (@stadiumastro) December 21, 2019

Ljungberg gave Arteta - watching upstairs from the directors' box - a glimpse of Arsenal's future by playing youngsters Bukayo Saka, Gabriel Martinelli, Reiss Nelson, Joe Willock and Emile Smith Rowe at Goodison.

'We have a lot of talent,' said the Swede, a playing member of Arsenal's famous Invicibles. 'I was unhappy with the effort we put in against City. We played a top team and we needed to run and put in effort. So today I gave young players without experience a chance, including an 18-year-old winger at left-back (Saka) and they did really well.

'I think they dominated the game against Everton. The club should be really proud of that. The important thing for me is we want to keep the ball, we want to have the ball because we are Arsenal football club. I know Mikel is a great coach and he will make us even better.'

Mesut Ozil threw a big strop after being substituted in the 59th minute against Man City