Natalie Barr wowed in a stunning, almost wedding-like gown as she hosted the network's annunal Carols in the Domain in Sydney.

The Channel Seven newsreader, 51, took to the hosting stage on Saturday in an extravagant off the shoulder, chapel-length gown by George Elsissa.

It featured elegant dusty pink floral embroidery on the bodice and sleeves, while the matching skirt cascaded down.

Extravagant! Sunrise newsreader Natalie Barr wowed in an extravagant white gown with elegant floral detailing as she hosted Channel Seven's Carols in the Domain on Saturday

Her ensemble was accessorised with statement pendant earrings from Pierre Winter Fine Jewels.

Natalie's makeup look was glowing and glamorous with peach blush cheeks layered with subtle highlight and a glossy pink lip.

The Sunrise star also took her followers on a backstage tour of the set while modelling the intricate button detail on the back of the dress.

Elegant: The Sunrise star also took her followers on a backstage tour of the set while modelling the intricate button detail on the back of the dress

Radiant: Natalie's makeup look was glowing and glamorous with peach blush cheeks layered with subtle highlight and a glossy pink lip

She wrote in the caption: 'So lucky to be part of such a magical night. Hope we can spread some joy tonight.

Her stunning look was applauded by her legions of followers, including The Morning Show host Kylie Gillies who commented: 'LOVE the backstage shot!'

While fellow newsreader Angela Cox wrote: 'You look amazing Nat'.

Co-hosts: Natalie (pictured with co-host David 'Kochie' Koch) wrote in the caption: 'So lucky to be part of such a magical night. Hope we can spread some joy tonight

Earlier this month, Natalie revealed in an Instagram post that she and David 'Kochie' Koch were the only ones available to present the event.

She wrote, 'It takes a village to host Carols in the Domain and this year Kochie and I are doing it. The others have family stuff on.'

Natalie has been hosting the event since 2011, originally co-hosting alongside presenter Grant Denyer.