Advertisement

Holidaymakers trying to make a Christmas getaway have been urged to postpone their trips as multiple emergency level bushfires burn across Australia.

Up to 20 homes have been destroyed in Lithgow, north-west of Sydney after the rapidly moving Gospers Mountain mega blaze tore through the town on Saturday - while at least 54 people have been injured at the Cudlee Creek fire in South Australia.

The bushfires caused mass road closures including one which has closed the Hume Highway - a vital arterial road linking Sydney and Canberra - in both directions between the Illawarra Highway at Sutton Forest and Narellan.

A building burns to the ground in the Gospers Mountain fire at Bilpin, north-west of Sydney as holidaymakers are urged to postpone their trips as multiple emergency level bushfires burn across Australia

NSW Police assistant commissioner Karen Webb said earlier on Saturday the state's residents should delay all non-essential travel (firemen pictured approaching a home outside Bargo in the NSW Southern Highlands)

NSW Police assistant commissioner Karen Webb said earlier on Saturday the state's residents should delay all non-essential travel.

'The NSW Police message to motorists is today is not the day to start your holiday,' she told reporters at NSW Rural Fire Service headquarters. 'Delay your travel until tomorrow.

'Conditions will be much milder and you can have a better trip.'

The Green Wattle Creek mega blaze south-west of Sydney has also shut the Picton Road about 80km away from the Harbour City.

In the Blue Mountains, the Great Western Highway reopened in both directions on Saturday evening between Katoomba and Lithgow but the Bells Line of Road and Chifley Road are closed between Kurrajong and Lithgow.

Train lines between Campbelltown and Moss Vale, to the south of Sydney, and westwards between Katoomba and Bathurst have also been impacted.

The Princes Highway was closed in both directions between Falls Creek and north of Milton on the state's south coast.

There were 27 roads closed to the public in South Australia as of Saturday morning, but by 9pm that number had grown to 30 - with all but one being in or around the bushfire-ravaged Adelaide Hills.

WHAT'S CLOSED IN YOUR STATE People are advised to stay away from the following areas. Delay all non-essential travel NEW SOUTH WALES AIRPORTS: Thick smoke and strong winds are causing delays of about an hour for both domestic and international terminals RAIL: Katoomba to Lithgow – trains, rail-replacement buses cancelled BUSES: Katoomba to Lithgow ROADS: BUCKETTY TO KULNURA George Downes Dr between Great Northern Rd and Walkers Ridge Rd YANDERRA TO PICTON Remembrance Dr/ Old Hume Hwy between Hume Mwy and Bridge St BELL TO LITHGOW Chifley Rd between Bells Line of Rd/Darling Causeway and Hartley Vale Rd HILL TOP TO COURIDJAH Wilson Dr/West Pde between Stella St and Bargo River Rd NOWRA HILL TO CHARLEYONG Braidwood Rd/Nerriga Rd between Albatross Rd and Stewarts Crossing Rd BRAIDWOOD TO NELLIGEN Kings Hwy between Narranghi Rd and Reid St BROKE TO BUCKETTY Wollombi Rd/ Paynes Crossing Rd/ Great North Rd BUCKETTY TO WISEMANS FERRY Great Northern Rd/ Wollombi Rd/ St Albans Rd TABULAM TO LOWER DUCK CREEK Hootens Rd and Paddys Flat Rd between Clarence Way and Bruxner Hwy JACKADGERY TO GLEN ELGIN VIA GIBRALTAR RANGE Gwydir Hwy between Murphys Rd and Camp Rd YARROWTICH TO MOUNT SEAVIEW Oxley Hwy between Kangaroo Flat Rd and Mount Seaview PUTTY TO MILBRODALE Putty Rd between south of Long Weeney Creek Trail and Milbrodale Rd OAKY PARK (EAST OF LITHGOW) Bells Rd between Brewery Lane and Zig Zag Railway JERRAWANGALA TO TOMERONG Turpentine Rd between Princes Hwy and Braidwood Rd BLACKMANS FLAT (BEN BULLEN TO WALLERAWANG) Castlereagh Hwy between Main St and Red Springs Rd HAMPTON TO OBERON VIA JENOLAN Jenolan Caves Rd and Edith Rd between Duckmaloi Rd and Shooters Hill Rd BELL TO MOUNT VICTORIA Darling Causeway between Bells Line of Road and Station St BOWEN MOUNTAIN Bowen Mountain Rd between Lieutenant Bowen Dr and Grose Vale Rd MEGALONG VALLEY Megalong Rd at Shipley Rd KURMOND TO BELL Bells Line of Rd between Kurmond Rd and Darling Causeway WISEMANS FERRY TO ST ALBANS Settlers Rd between Wisemans Ferry Rd and Wollombi Rd HIGH RANGE TO TARALGA Wombeyan Caves Rd/ Taralga Rd between High Range Lane and Hillas St SOUTH AUSTRALIA: AIRPORTS: Adelaide Airport is running to schedule as of Saturday evening RAIL: Adelaide Metro is not reporting any delays or cancellations to its services BUSES: The 800 and the 803 bus routes - which both run through the fire-ravaged Adelaide Hills district - are both closed ROADS: Gorge Road near Batchelor Rd, Castambul North East Road near Paracombe Rd, Inglewood

Torrens Hill Rd Between Paracombe Rd And Gorge Rd Gorge Road near Tippett Rd, Chain Of Ponds North East Road near Tippett Rd, Chain Of Ponds North East Road near South Para Rd, Chain Of Ponds South Para Road near Checker Hill Rd, Kersbrook Gorge Road near North East Rd, Chain Of Ponds Kenton Valley Road near Coleman Rd, Gumeracha William Street near Bleeze St, Birdwood Onkaparinga Valley Road near Mcvitties Rd, Birdwood Onkaparinga Valley Road near Burfords Hill Rd, Mount Torrens Terlinga Road near Black Heath Rd, Mount Torrens Cudlee Creek Road near Fox Creek Rd, Cudlee Creek Klopsch Road Closed Due To Grass Fire Fox Creek Road between Cudlee Creek Rd and Croft Road Edwards Hill Road Lobethal Road near Coldstore Rd, Lenswood Lobethal Road near Swamp Rd, Lenswood Onkaparinga Valley Road near Riverview Rd, Woodside Onkaparinga Valley Road near Shillabeer Rd, Oakbank Old Princes Highway near Harrogate Rd, Dawesley VICTORIA: AIRPORTS: Melbourne Airport is not reporting any delays RAIL: Normal service is on Melbourne Metro BUSES: Public Transport Victoria is not reporting any disruptions ROADS: Lexton Road from Amphitheatre Road to Sandlant Road, Lexton Rifle Range Road from Sandlant Road to Sandlant Road, Lexton Coopers Road from Bamganie Road , Meredith to Bamganie, Meredith Tuckers Orchard Road from Gellibrand-Carlisle Road, Carlisle River to Link Track, Carlisle River Great Alpine Road from Bruthen-Nowa Nowa Road , Bruthen to Swifts Creek East Road, Doctors Flat Yalong Road from Lexton-Ararat Road , Lexton to Fishers Road, Lexton Fishers Road from Yalong Road , Lexton to Yalong Road, Lexton Jack Smiths Lane from Beaufort-Lexton Road , Lexton to Beaufort-Lexton, Lexton Chute-Lexton Road from Mcervales Road, Chute to Beaufort-Lexton Road, Chute Buggery Track from Sec Access Track , Dandongadale to Camp Creek Track, Abbeyard Dandongadale-Buffalo Divide from Mccready Track , Dandongadale to Cobbler Lake Track, Abbeyard Camp Creek Track from Buffalo Range Track , Abbeyard to Abbeyards Road, Abbeyard Williams Logging Road from Lake Cobbler Road , Wabonga to Cobbler Lake Track, Rose River Worseldine Track fromDandongadale-Buffalo Divide Track , Dandongadale to Abbeyard Road, Dandongadale Yalmy Road from Knob Track , Jarrahmond to Sun Track, Bonang Engineers Road from Mt Baldhead Road , Marthavale to Sugarloaf Tower Track, Deptford Haunted Stream Track from Great Alpine Road , Tambo Crossing to Dawson City Track, Brookville Tulloch Ard Road from Gelantipy Road , Butchers Ridge to Basin Road, Buchan Playgrounds Road from River Junction Road , Double Bridges to Great Alpine Road, Double Bridges Quire Road from Buchan South Road , Buchan South to Molly Plains Road, Buchan South Deddick Track from Mckillops Road, Deddick Valley to Yalmy Road, Yalmy Buchan-Ensay Road from Sandy Creek Road , Reedy Flat to Mt Wong Track, Reedy Flat *All roads have been included with statuses updated since December 1

Two SALink bus routes - the 800 Mt Pleasant to Tea Tree Plaza via Birdwood and the 803 which goes through Cudlee Creek which sits at the heart of the blazes - are also closed.

Desperate police are meanwhile scrambling to get people out of their homes and to safety as a huge mega blaze named 'The Monster' by locals threatens 20,000 lives, while residents and battle the fire with their garden hoses.

The Gospers Mountain mega blaze is moving rapidly in Lithgow, northwest of Sydney, after winds kicked up the flames with the fire front now just metres from houses.

The Gospers Mountain mega blaze is moving rapidly in Lithgow (pictured), northwest of Sydney, after winds kicked up the flames with the fire front now just metres from houses

Fire crews and police have spent the day door-knocking and warning residents of the imminent danger and urging them to leave

WHAT TO DO IF THE FIRE REACHES YOU 1. If the fire comes through, water pressure from your hose will be significantly impacted as fire fighters tap into street mains (to the point they can be useless). Even if you choose to leave early, fill up as many buckets/esky/bins before the fire front hits and leave them around your property. This serves three purposes - it helps keep fire fighters cool (dunking arms), gives wildlife some refuge, and allows spot fires to be extinguished. If possible have them at a weight which can be carried so your property and neighbouring ones can be protected. 2. A lot of people have never felt their fight or flight response kick in. If it hits the fan it's much safer to have absolutely everything ready. So I'm talking have the car facing out of the driveway, everything packed, keys in your pocket, so if you need to leave you simply lock the front door and go. Let the situation process as you're driving ten minutes down the road. You don't want to freeze and panic when seconds truly matter. 3. If you think traffic is bad on Sundays as people leave the mountains, it will be amplified if the fire front hits. Remember visibility will be low and fire appliances will be responding at speed, so please take care on the road. There is absolutely nothing wrong with leaving early. 4. If you are staying to protect property, all the best. Please remember to prepare tonight - have food ready, cold water in the fridge (in case mains are impacted) and protective gear ready. Be super vigilant of risks you might not consider. Fallen power lines and trees/branches are some of your biggest risks. Try and keep clear, don't park or stand under any and pass on anything you think isn't right to any authority in attendance. 5. Last but not least, please follow the directions of authorities, be it police, RFS, FRNSW or others. At the end of the day we want to protect our homes and beautiful suburb, but life comes first. Source: Faulconbridge Fire and Rescue NSW employee

Fire crews and police have spent the day door-knocking and warning residents of the imminent danger and urging them to leave, as five homes have been destroyed.

But defiant residents have remained at their properties, using their garden hose and buckets to attempt to save their houses, despite the fire destroying an area six times the size of Singapore.

Police were seen pulling people out of their homes as the flames inched closer, with footage captured by Seven News showing officers running to houses.

Emergency crews were so desperate for people to leave their homes they began to throw things at windows to alert people inside.

A southerly wind of up to 90km/h began rolling through the southern coast of NSW on Saturday afternoon, hitting Sydney at 5pm causing the fires to pick up speed.

Horses are seen in a paddock as the Gospers Mountain Fire impacts Bilpin, northwest of Sydney, on Saturday

Residents (pictured) are battling fires with garden hoses as they attempt to save their homes from a fire so terrifying it has been named 'The Monster'

Defiant residents have remained at their properties, using their garden hose and buckets to attempt to save their houses

The Gospers Mountain Fire is seen impacting a property in Bilpin, northwest of Sydney, as the blaze remains out-of-control on Saturday

Police were seen running up to houses and pulling people out as the flames inched closer to properties in Lithgow

'This will bring erratic fire conditions to the Green Wattle Creek fire at about 5pm. The Grose Valley fire and Gospers Mountain fires will be affected at around 6pm.' the NSW RFS Tweeted, referring to the emergency-level fires close to Sydney.

In a terrifying day for the state, the fires at Gospers Mountain, Green Wattle Creek and Shoalhaven were all upgraded to emergency level - with residents told it was now too late to leave.

Evacuation centres have opened in Bomaderry, Sanctuary Point, ulladulla and Batemans Bay for those in the Shoalhaven area after residents in the are were told to stay on alert.

What is a fire-generated thunderstorm? A fire-generated thunderstorm occ urs when clouds form from the intense heat of a fire. The rising, turbulent air draws in cooler air and causes lightning, winds and sometimes rain. But the rain does not fall directly over the fire, with the lightning causing further damage elsewhere as it can set off more fires.

The Currowan and Tianjara fires in the Shoalhaven were so powerful that they caused fire-generated thunderstorms which happen when rising, turbulent air draws in cooler air and causes lightning, high winds and sometimes rain - but not directly over the blazes.

'This is a very dangerous situation. Monitor the conditions around you and take appropriate action,' RFS wrote on Twitter.

Resident Rob Corney has remained at his Lithgow property and told the Daily Telegraph the fire is rapidly moving, with ten fire trucks and more than 40 firefighters battling the fire.

'I'm not going anywhere because I've got nowhere else to go. I'm not starting from scratch again,' he said.

On Saturday, 'The Monster' continued to rage as temperatures soared to 40C and strong westerly winds whipped across the fireground.

The fire in the Wollemi National Park is currently burning on multiple fronts and has merged with other fires.

It has also spawned new fires including the Grose Valley fire which is coming from the northeast to threaten the Blue Mountains suburbs of Mount Victoria and Blackheath.

It is thought to be the largest bushfire from a single spark in Australia's history, and is burning across a challenging terrain which firefighters cannot reach.

'Today has been an awful day,' NSW Rural Fire Services Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons said of the conditions which were rated 'catastrophic', the highest level of danger.

By late afternoon, six fires in the state were rated at emergency level, including two around Sydney.

'We have seen property impacted and lost. We have 3,000 firefighters and emergency services personnel out there dealing with the fires,' Fitzsimmons told a media conference.

The Currowan and Tianjara fires in the Shoalhaven were so powerful that they caused fire-generated thunderstorms which happen when rising, turbulent air draws in cooler air and causes lightning, high winds and sometimes rain - but not directly over the blazes

Horses in a paddock as the Gospers Mountain Fire impacts Bilpin as conditions are expected to worsen across much of the state

A NSW Rural Fire Service firefighter is seen fighting the Gospers Mountain Fire as it impacts properties at Bilpin on Saturday

A water bombing helicopter battles the Green Wattle Creek Fire as it threatens homes in Yanderra in the south west of Sydney

The raging infernos continue to close in on Sydney, with the Gospers Mountain fire now burning across 450,000 hectares

NSW Rural Fire Service crews fight the Gospers Mountain Fire as it impacts a property at Bilpin northwest of Sydney

Other towns across NSW have been issued with the terrifying warning that it is now 'too late to leave' as firefighters endure one of the worst bushfire days yet.

Residents in the Blue Mountains were warned on Saturday morning it would be time to evacuate as the fires inch closer to homes.

A notification was sent to residents on the NSW coast saying the storms are due to a strong southerly change late on Saturday afternoon.

'Some fires on the south coast have generated thunderstorms ahead of the change. The change will increase winds and see erratic fire behaviour. These are dangerous fire conditions. Do not be in the path of a fire,' the warning read.

The southerly wind change caused thick smoke and strong winds at Sydney Airport, causing major delays of more than an hour for both the international and domestic terminals.

Southerly winds swept through the state on Saturday evening and made it too difficult for planes to land or take-off, Nine News reported.

Officials released several stark emergency warnings on Saturday afternoon, saying it is too late to escape and residents should 'seek shelter'.

New South Wales motorists who plan to load up their cars and drive to family and friends on Saturday were warned to cancel all travel plans.

NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian said families should avoid travel, as the 'unpredictable' conditions could see fires become 'very dangerous quickly'.

Christmas is likely to be cancelled for the hundreds of Australians forced to flee their homes, and others have been told not to risk travelling to see friends or family.

Other towns across NSW have been issued with the terrifying warning that it is now 'too late to leave' as firefighters endure one of the worst bushfire days yet. Pictured: a water bombing helicopter in Yanderra, south-west of Sydney

A burnt Christmas decoration lies on the ground (pictured) in front of a house recently destroyed by bushfires on the outskirts of the town of Bargo on Saturday

Residents in Bilpin (pictured) have been told to evacuate as the Gospers Mountain fire reaches emergency levels on Saturday

The town of Bilpin (pictured) has been on high alert as the Gospers Mountain fire rages on Saturday, and residents have now been told to leave

Firefighters stare down a raging bushfire at Bilpin in NSW's Blue Mountains (pictured), next to a major road and dangerously close to homes

Fires in Victoria's East Gippsland region that have been burning for weeks have also flared up after a cool change, prompting emergency warnings for nearby towns.

Residents of the small community of Brookville - about 390 kilometres east of Melbourne - were told on Saturday it was too late to leave their homes and to shelter indoors.

"You are in danger and need to act immediately to survive," the warning reads.

Emergency Management Victoria said a nearby bushfire was travelling north towards Brookville with embers falling in the town, threatening homes and lives.

As fires rage across the country, officials are now considering closing the Princes Highway, cutting off communities across NSW and Victoria.

The Bilpin fire, on the outskirts of Sydney, is threatening homes and communities (pictured) as firefighters struggle to contain the blaze

The Hume Highway was closed at lunchtime on Saturday between Campbelltown and Alpine, causing travel chaos for hundreds of motorists.

In a major blow for Christmas drivers, the Great Western Highway was closed at lunchtime on Saturday in both directions at Marrangaroo, west of Lithgow, between Reserve Road and Barton Avenue.

Roadtrippers preparing to travel to see friends or family this Christmas have been warned to delay their trips.

'If anyone was considering driving south of Nowra today please don't, Ms Berejiklian warned.

'We're concerned the three active fires in that region could suddenly become very dangerous quickly. When things are at catastrophic level it means unpredictable wind temperatures wind conditions and also active fires.

'Please do not do anything that's going to put you in harm's way. We know just a few days before Christmas family and friends are getting together.

A resident (pictured) uses a commercial watering machine to hose down his property as the Grose Valley Fire approaches Bilpin on Saturday

Firemen inspect a house recently destroyed by bushfires (pictured) on the outskirts of the town of Bargo on Saturday

Hundreds of fires blazing across NSW, Queensland, Victoria and Adelaide on Saturday (pictured) as scorching temperatures and high winds make them difficult to contain

'We know it might be stressful to change your plans. We would much rather everybody was safe and not in harm's way.'

NSW is in a state of emergency, as 129 fires rage across the state as of 5pm Saturday, 50 of which are out of control and impossible to contain.

Fire officials also issued a grave warning that the escalating conditions may make it impossible for them to save those caught in the flames.

Scorching temperatures across Australia on Saturday will see some of the worst conditions yet for the country's exhausted firefighters.

New South Wales Fire crews are still mourning the loss of two brave volunteers who died after battling the Green Wattle Creek fire on Thursday evening.

Andrew O'Dwyer, 36, a father-of-three and Geoffrey Keaton, 32, also a father, had courageously fought the fire as part of the Horsley Park RFS bridage.

On Saturday morning, the brigade went back out to tackle the blazing inferno, dedicating their battle to their fallen mates.

'In true Horsley Park spirit, our crew are heading out today as part of a Cumberland Zone Strike Team in memory of Geoff and Andrew,' the team wrote on its Facebook page.

Smoke from a bushfire is seen near Gumeracha in the Adelaide Hills (picture) on Saturday

A firefighter is seen tackling a fire near Gumeracha in the Adelaide Hills (pictured) on Saturday

A Woodside resident battles a fire (pictured) as it crosses Ridge Road at Woodside in the Adelaide Hills in Adelaide on Friday

The Cudlee Creek fire destroys a plot of land at Woodside (pictured), just 40 minutes outside of Adelaide, on Friday

'To all crews in the field today, stay safe and look after each other.'

Two people were declared dead after a night of raging bushfires in South Australia, and hundreds of homes are on the brink of destruction.

One resident died in the Adelaide Hills as a fire ripped through the area, and another in a car crash in Lameroo.

At least 23 firefighters have been taken to hospital with injuries after battling more than 100 fires across South Australia, some just 40 minutes from the centre of Adelaide.

South Australian Premier Steven Marshall told reporters: 'There has been a further death in the Charleston area in Adelaide.

'This is of course on top of the death which occurred in Lameroo. This was a result of a car crash in the Lameroo area which ignited the fire which was in that area yesterday.'

'My fear is this is only the tip of the iceberg. It is going to a real scene of devastation, especially for those people in the Adelaide Hills who have been most affected to date.'

John Glatz, the former Oakbank Racing Club chairman, is in an induced coma in an intensive care unit, ABC reported.

A home lost to a bushfire (pictured) in Buxton as the Green Wattle Creek fire threatens homes in the south west of Sydney

A firefighter struggles to tackle a fire in the NSW town of Bargo on Friday evening, which is reported to have destroyed more than 50 homes

He is thought to have suffered burns to 60 per cent of his body as he stayed behind in a desperate attempt to save his horses and home.

Blistering heat is escalating the fire risk with Adelaide reaching 43.9C following the hottest night on record.

Temperatures throughout the state soared to the high 40s, while Keith reached a scorching 49.2C.

In Victoria, after days of blistering heat a cool change has brought dangerous dry lightning, increasing the fire danger for firefighters tackle more than 100 blazes across the state.

Fire Services Commissioner Craig Lapsley said the 21,000 hectare Grampians bushland fire was so intense it had 'created its own weather', triggering lightning and spot fires.

On Saturday morning, a 47-year-old man was charged with lighting three bushfires in the Roxburgh Park area on Friday night.

He has been charged with 11 charges including intentionally cause bush-fire and criminal damage by fire.

Fires swept areas of Lexton, Victoria on Friday (pictured) as conditions worsened thanks to high temperatures

Victoria Police evacuated a number of people from Lexton after it was threatened by the fire at Amphitheatre (pictured)

The Bargo fire (pictured) continued to burn overnight, after reducing the area to an 'apocalyptic wasteland'

The charges also relate to a series of fires dating back to October this year.

On Friday 110 fires were already burning, but another 33 started in the early hours of Saturday morning.

Around 27 of these are out of control.

Locals have been told it's too late to leave the Tambo Crossing and Ensay areas, as the huge fires in east Gippsland burns out of control.

'You are in danger and need to act immediately to survive. The safest option is to take shelter indoors immediately. It is too late to leave,' Victorian officials warned.

Over 200 additional trucks from the NSW Fire and Rescue Service and RFS have been allocated on Saturday and residents are being urged to be prepared to leave.

'If you're somewhere you have to go down a single road, you're in a very heavily vegetated area, then our message is think very carefully about staying in that area,' RFS deputy commissioner Rob Rogers said.

'And maybe, not necessarily evacuate, but go somewhere else in the heat, go to the beach, go to a shopping centre, go somewhere that's not bushfire prone.

'Firefighters will do their best to look after your house but we just want to get through the day with lives in tact.'