American film director Mark Webber has shared a sweet wedding anniversary tribute to his wife of six years, Australian actress Teresa Palmer.

He took to Instagram on Saturday to share an intimate photo of himself in bed, intertwined in his wife's legs.

The Scott Pilgrim vs. the World director, 39, wrote in the caption: 'Unstoppable. Happy Anniversary my everything. @teresapalmer.'

'My everything!' American film director Mark Webber, 39, took to Instagram on Saturday to mark his sixth wedding anniversary with Australian actress Teresa Palmer

Teresa replied to his post: 'Love you for ever'.

The Warm Bodies star, 33, also took to Instagram to share a heartfelt tribute marking their anniversary.

She wrote: 'Hey honey! It’s our wedding anniversary. Just gonna drop some of these pics right here that I found from the internet.'

Intimate: The Scott Pilgrim vs. the World director, 39, shared an intimate photo of himself in bed and intertwined in his wife's legs and wrote in the caption: 'Unstoppable. Happy Anniversary my everything. @teresapalmer'

'Be my man forever': Teresa, 33, also took to Instagram to share a heartfelt tribute marking their anniversary and wrote: 'Loved, lost, gained, learned, grown. Rode the coaster together. I love you @markwebber'

The Adelaide-born beauty also shared photographs of them together casually out-and-about and at red carpet events.

She wrote in the caption: 'In 6 years of marriage we’ve had 3 babies, embarked on our dream life, done a bunch of wild things in amazing places around the world.'

'Loved, lost, gained, learned, grown. Rode the coaster together. I love you @markwebber,' she said and added: 'Be my man forever.'

Proud parents: She added, 'In 6 years of marriage we’ve had 3 babies, embarked on our dream life, done a bunch of wild things in amazing places around the world' (Pictured left to right: Bodhi, five, Poet, eight-months-old, Teresa and Forest)

The couple are already proud parents to sons Bodhi, five, and Forest, three, and youngest, eight-month-old daughter Poet.

Teresa is also a stepmother to Mark's 11-year-old son, Isaac, from his previous relationship with actress Frankie Shaw.

Teresa and Mark tied the knot in an intimate ceremony in Mexico, back in 2013.