A Good Samaritan was shoved to the ground and left with injuries to her face and hand by a thug who assaulted her as she was handing out gifts to the homeless.

Moira Norcliffe, 70, from Golcar, West Yorkshire, had been walking near a market in Huddersfield town centre when a man walked up behind her and aggressively pushed her to the ground.

The attacker then stood over the retired medical receptionist for a second before pulling his hood over his head and fleeing the scene.

Following the assault, police and ambulance services rushed to the scene and Mrs Norcliff was taken to Huddersfield Royal Infirmary's A&E department.

Moira Norcliff (pictured), 70, from Golcar, West Yorkshire, was left with injuries to her face and hand after a thug pushed her to the ground

She has since been discharged from hospital in order to start the process of physical and psychological recovery.

Mrs Norcliff said: 'I was just going to turn into the Monday Market when these two hands came up behind me and pushed my shoulder blades and I went down like a sack of potatoes.

'He was stood just a few feet away from me. It was as if he was wanting to see what my reactions were.

'I only do it when I have a few spare pounds to give to the less fortunate. I hadn't even told my husband what I was doing, I just blurted it out in the ambulance.'

Mrs Norcliff's husband Peter, 72, said he along with medical staff, police, family and friends were 'mystified' as to why someone would do such a thing.

Mrs Norcliff (pictured with husband Peter, 72) has been handing out gifts in Huddersfield town centre when the thug assaulted her

He said: 'All indications are that the man just wanted to hurt someone who couldn't fight back. He didn't attempt theft or further assault.

'Crime scene investigation team have visited to take photos. We, the medical staff, police, friends and family are all mystified as to why someone should do such a thing.

'I think it's ironic in some ways, but what Moira was doing at the time was handing out woolly hats, gloves, socks, currant teacakes, cheese and water to the homeless in the town centre, all new and paid for by Moira herself.'