The Club World Cup may be an afterthought to Liverpool – an inconvenience disruptive to their quest to finally land a maiden Premier League title – but for Brazil's Clube de Regatas do Flamengo, the competition means everything with the potential to become a defining point in their rich history should they win it.

Undergoing a revolution since Jorge Jesus took over the reins on the weekend of the Champions League final, the Portuguese coach was in Madrid to watch Liverpool beat Spurs and put pen to paper for the Rio giants while also making a bold claim that his new side and Klopp's men would meet on Saturday some six months later. Well, here we are.

There has of course been a lot gone on since then, though. First, with immense financial backing as Brazil's richest team, Jesus constructed a team of veterans returning to their homeland from distinguished careers in Europe - such as left and right backs Filipe Luis and Rafinha formerly of Atletico Madrid and Bayern Munich.

Jorge Jesus has helped transform the club since taking charge of Flamengo last year

There are thousands of fans who made the trip out to Qatar in the hope of seeing history

He combined them with those that fell short of making it in attackers Gabriel Barbosa and Bruno Henrique plus midfielder Gerson.

Also extracting the best form from the talents that were already around when he showed up at the Maracana, including Uruguay international Giorgian De Arrascaeta, ex-Juventus star Diego and Everton Ribeiro, academy fruits in Barcelona target Reinier and Lincoln were introduced towards the end of the season and utilised in less important league games so that battles on both a domestic and continental could be waged.

Amassing a record points tally that saw them finish the Brazilian Serie A 16 clear of nearest rivals Santos, they headed to the Libertadores final against River Plate in Peru and decided it in the most dramatic fashion since Manchester United's 2-1 victory over Bayern Munich at the Camp Nou in 1999.

Gabriel Barbosa is a shining light for the team and could cause Liverpool major problems

Their speedy and talented attack of Barbosa, known as 'Gabigol', and Henrique nullified by the experience and tactical nous of double-champion Marcelo Gallardo, one of South America's top managers, Flamengo fell behind to an early goal.

This led pundits and detractors to balk at the apparent shortcomings of Brazilian football and disparities with its Argentine counterpart for almost the entire duration of the game until, thanks to strikes in the 89th and 92nd minutes, Barbosa sank River following the impact substitution of Diego and the Mengao became kings of the continent for the first time since 1981.

Parties ensuing in Copacabana the weekend long, as on the Sunday they were confirmed Brazilian champions due to then-nearest rivals Palmeiras failing to win, Flamengo became the first local side since Pele's Santos in the 60s to win both the Serie A and the Libertadores in the same season.

In Tuesday's Club World Cup Final semi-final against Al-Hilal, Jesus' men were frustrated by the organisation of their Saudi foes and perhaps the weight of expectation thrust upon them by 30-million plus fans in Brazil.

Again falling behind early as they did to River, it was Diego's influence as a substitute that proved decisive in allowing Flamengo to score two more and prevail 3-1 following De Arrascaeta's 49th minute leveller.

The Brazilian side still dine out on their historic win over Liverpool back in 1981

A mammoth tie with Liverpool - once the Reds had laboured to see off Mexico's Monterrey – has now been set up and when the two meet on Saturday, Flamengo will, as mentioned, look to make new history but also recreate that which has been its proudest moment up until now.

For the whole of this current campaign, there has been a popular chant on the terraces of the Maracana which translated from Portuguese goes something like: 'In December 1981, we ran rings around the English. 3-0 against Liverpool, it went down in history. In Rio there's no equal, only Flamengo are world champions. And now your people ask for the world again.'

Spearheaded by the legendary Zico, Flamengo famously played a strong European Cup-winning Bob Paisley side featuring Kenny Dalglish off the park to lift the Intercontinental Trophy.

And this time round, nothing less than bringing home the world crown – known as the Mundial in Brazil - for a second time will do for their passionate fans. If they can pull it off, they will dethrone Corinthians – who memorably beat Chelsea in 2012 – as the last Brazilian and South American club to go all the way in FIFA's end-of-year showpiece.

It would me major news back home if Flamengo manage to beat the European champions

Back then, in Tokyo, the shoe was on the other foot. The gap in quality between Flamengo, made up of various members of Brazil's fabled 1982 World Cup squad, and Liverpool was obvious for all to see.

Now however, with nobody even approaching the mercurial talents of Zico to speak of, the fear from realists is that for all the transformative work Jesus has done, Flamengo could open themselves to a massacre if they try to go all out on Liverpool as they can with other opposition in the Serie A.

At the same time there is a suspicion that the Merseysiders, with one eye on a packed Christmas and New Year schedule that saw them cede the Premier League last term, may play in second gear, but Klopp has stressed in the build-up that this is not the case.

'The situation is different for us and Flamengo,' explained the German. 'Flamengo were sent with a clear order to go and win it and come back as heroes. We got told to stay at home and play in the Carabao Cup. We cannot change that. We are here, my team wants to win this,' he vowed.

If Flamengo can keep them at bay, and perhaps pounce late as seen against River, it is as heroes they will indeed return to Rio forever more.