Carlo Ancelotti has his work cut out to rescue Everton's season having been appointed as the permanent successor to Marco Silva.

The Italian departed the mess at Napoli and has made an immediate return to the dugout as he comes back to England to lift Everton away from the threat of relegation.

Sportsmail has taken a look at the pressing issues he faces after taking charge.

Carlo Ancelotti has plenty to fix after he was announced as Everton's new permanent boss

Everton are sat 16th in the Premier League table having made a disastrous start to the season

GET THE BEST FROM KEAN

When Moise Kean arrived from Juventus in the summer for a fee of £27.5million, there were plenty of an Everton persuasion who felt it could be the steal of the entire window.

But ultimately, his Everton career is yet to get out of first gear and he is yet to score a goal, with just one assist from 14 appearances.

Language skills are always of concern for young players moving to the Premier League but in Ancelotti, Kean will have a willing mentor who can converse with him in his native Italian.

Moise Kean is yet to score for Everton and fixing his issues will be key for Ancelotti's success

The noises from Everton are that they have no wish to cash in on Kean following his nightmare start and therefore it will be one of Ancelotti's priorities to get to the root of the striker's woes.

Dominic Calvert-Lewin is the current incumbent of the No 9 role alongside Richarlison, with caretaker boss Duncan Ferguson switching to an old-school 4-4-2 formation.

Ancelotti typically favours a 4-3-3 system, as he showed in his most recent spell at Napoli, and so Kean will need to knuckle down if he is to guarantee himself the sole striking role, having already looked uncomfortable wide on the right.

GALVANISE A DISILLUSIONED FAN BASE

Before Duncan Ferguson arrived to save Everton's season, the mood around the club was one of utter despair as they slipped into the relegation zone.

Defeat at Goodison Park by Norwich was the final straw for many and Ancelotti will be well aware of the need to hit the ground running, riding the wave of positivity generated by Ferguson in the few games he took charge of.

Victory over Chelsea and a draw away to Manchester United showed this current crop can mix it with the division's big teams but Ancelotti will need to get fans and players believing that they can consistently compete with sides at the top end of the league.

Everton's fans have been disillusioned with recent managers but will look to Ancelotti for hope

The club's trophy drought has been a big talking point from their last few appointments and there will be an added onus on that given Ancelotti is one of the most decorated bosses ever in the game.

Everton's fans are among the most passionate in the country and tapping in to that can only be a positive in getting the Ancelotti era off on the right foot.

Given the 'Hollywood' nature of his signing, he should be given more of a chance than Sam Allardyce or Marco Silva ever were.

END RELEGATION TALK

This is of immediate concern, talk of trophies can wait for now.

Three points off the relegation zone with 17 games played is nowhere near acceptable for a fan base and owner who have been focused on cracking the top six for some time.

Grand plans such as that will have to be parked until the looming threat of relegation is banished beyond all reasonable doubt.

Everton must stop conceding goals or they risk being caught up in a relegation dog-fight

The big focus here will be to retain the new-found belief that has emerged under Ferguson.

The system may have played a factor but a new face in the dugout may also have helped freshen the whole place up.

Defensively they have looked suspect, particularly when they try to play a high line, and so Ancelotti will no doubt place added focus on tightening up the defence, something he did well at Napoli (it was at the other end they fell flat!).

MAKE SIDE TOUGH TO BEAT

With all due respect to Norwich, Everton should not be collapsing at home against the Canaries.

After conceding 29 goals in 17 games, their defensive frailties simply cannot continue and Moshiri will hope his latest appointment can find the cure to the club's problems at the back.

Too many times this season the Toffees have come unstuck through lapses of concentration.

Goodison Park can be a hostile place for opposition teams. The fans will provide the bite off it, so the players have to back that up by performing on the pitch.

They've proved they can do that against Chelsea and Manchester United.