Carlo Ancelotti is the new Everton manager after the club confirmed his arrival on a four-and-a-half year deal .

The 60-year-old Italian, a three-time Champions League winner, was only sacked as Napoli boss on December 10 and was in the running for the vacant manager's post at Arsenal prior to them appointing former Manchester City coach Mikel Arteta.

But Everton owner Farhad Moshiri has got his man and the three-time Champions League winner, who led Chelsea to the Premier League title in 2010, comes in at a time when the Toffees are only three points above the Premier League relegation zone.

Former Chelsea and PSG boss Carlo Ancelotti has been appointed the new Everton manager

The experienced Italian was in attendance at Goodison Park to watch Everton face Arsenal

Bill Kenwright (left) and majority shareholder Farhad Moshiri (right) watched on with Ancelotti

Ancelotti celebrates winning the Premier League title with Chelsea winger Florent Malouda

'This is a great club with a rich history and a very passionate fan base,' Ancelotti said, before confirming that caretaker manager Duncan Ferguson will be part of his backroom team.

'There is a clear vision from the owner and the board to deliver success and trophies. That is something that appeals to me as a manager and I am thrilled at the prospect of being able to work with everybody at the club to help make that vision a reality.

'I have seen from the performances in the last two weeks that the players are capable of so much. The work Duncan has done is a great credit to him. Strong organisation, strong discipline and the right motivation are some of the key ingredients in football and I'm pleased that he will be part of my backroom team moving forward.'

Moshiri held face-to-face talks with former manager David Moyes over a return to Goodison Park and also considered options ranging from Shanghai SIPG boss Vitor Pereira to Bournemouth's Eddie Howe.

But he has opted for Ancelotti as Marco Silva's replacement, with the former Chelsea boss set to be in the stands at Goodison for Saturday's game against Arsenal.

Ancelotti will have his son, Davide, as his assistant on the coaching staff and there will also be a place for Ferguson. The Scot was placed in charge in a caretaker capacity after Silva's sacking on December 5.

Ferguson has enjoyed success in the last two weeks, earning a home win against Chelsea before securing a point against Manchester United at Old Trafford.

Marco Silva was sacked by Everton earlier this month after a thrashing by rivals Liverpool

Ancelotti has won the Champions League three times, including a 2007 triumph with AC Milan

The former Toffees striker, who also oversaw Wednesday's Carabao Cup quarter-final defeat by Leicester, will take charge of his final game when the Gunners visit Merseyside.

A terrible opening four months of the season left Everton in the relegation zone and Silva out of a job, with the final straw proving to be their 5-2 Merseyside derby defeat by rivals Liverpool at Anfield.

Everton director Marcel Brands said: 'Following a rigorous process, it is a pleasure to now welcome Carlo Ancelotti to Everton. He is one of the finest managers in world football and a proven winner, having achieved a remarkable level of success in each of Europe's major leagues.

Everton are sat 16th in the Premier League table having made a disastrous start to the season

Duncan Ferguson was in charge on an interim basis after Marco Silva's sacking on December 6

'He is the perfect appointment for us. He embraces our vision and we are sure that his enthusiasm to take the helm at Goodison together with his tactical abilities and well-renowned man-management will make him successful in this role.

'This was a clear and exciting decision for the board to make. It was a unanimous choice and one we were all fully united behind throughout.

'Carlo has proven time and again, he knows how to build a trophy-winning side and we share the excitement of our fans at the prospect of him leading our team in the years ahead. We're all greatly looking forward to working with him.'

Ancelotti is a serial winner and has

The pedigree of Ancelotti cannot be disputed. He's won four domestic league titles, once each with Milan, Chelsea, PSG and Bayern Munich.

There's also a grand total of seven domestic cups and the same number of European trophies.

Even the most optimistic Toffees fans will not expect an immediate transformation but there is reason to be hopeful that Ancelotti is the man to end their trophy drought.