She's the brunette beauty who loves to flaunt her sensational figure in skimpy ensembles on Instagram.

And on Saturday, Margarita Smith wowed in another scantily-clad outfit while enjoying some free time by the pool on her Instagram page.

The aged care worker, 26, stepped out in a black one piece swimsuit with a very low neckline and a cut-out detail that showed off her trim and toned torso.

Hot girl summer! Love Island Australia star Margarita Smith took to Instagram on Saturday to flaunt her sensational figure in a racy one piece swimsuit

The suit's featured a belt detail around her waist that drew attention to the high cut thigh, which she flaunted.

She accessorised her look with gold chain necklaces, a large floppy sun hat and and a Louis Vuitton Neverfull tote.

In another photo she posted, the brunette stunner posed in a shallow pool to show off the suit's thong detail.

That's cheeky: In another photo she posted, the brunette stunner posed in a shallow pool to show off the suit's thong detail

Racy: She showed off her backside in another Story post, showing off her pert derrière

She flaunted her backside in another post, showing off her pert derrière.

Margarita's raunchy Instagram posts come after eagle-eyed fans busted her for editing her photos.

In her recent blunder, the brunette took to Instagram with a photo of herself and co-star Jessie Wynter at a fashion event in Melbourne earlier this month.

What's going on here? Margarita (R) suffered a Photoshop fail in a recent photo with co-star Jessie Wynter (L). In the snap, the vertical lines in the background appear to be warped around her bicep area

Her followers were quick to notice the unnatural 'warping' around her figure and in the background the image - a tell-tale sign of Photoshop.

Earlier this month, her savvy fans called her out for editing her snaps in another photo where she modelled activewear.

One confused fan commented, 'What happened to your pants, love?'

Fail! Earlier this month, the Melbourne based aged care worker was busted having edited her snaps by her savvy Instagram followers

'Is this Photoshopped or is the background just tripping me out?' asked another.

Responding to the fan's question, Margarita admitted to editing the picture.

She said: 'It didn’t fit properly in Instagram's measurements because I took it in my Story settings but then wanted to post it, so had to try stretch out the sides.'