Bruno Fornaroli and Diego Castro both struck twice as Perth Glory recorded their third successive A-League victory by defeating Newcastle Jets 6-2 at HBF Park.

Neil Kilkenny and Joel Chianese were also on the scoresheet on Saturday evening to make it 14 wins in the last 16 home games against the New South Wales side.

Glory went ahead on 15 minutes when Fornaroli was bundled over 25 yards from goal and Spaniard Castro stepped up to curl the resulting free kick over the wall and past goalkeeper Glen Moss.

Newcastle looked to hit back and went close when Matt Millar headed just over from a Dimitri Petratos free kick.

They didn't have to wait long for the equaliser as another set piece from Petratos found its way to Nikolai Topor-Stanley via Lachlan Jackson and Millar and the central defender nodded home from close range.

Just five minutes later, Glory restored their lead when Neil Kilkenny converted from the spot following Ben Kantarovski's foul on James Meredith in the penalty area.

Perth boss Tony Popovic made one change to his side from the previous two outings with Joel Chianese replacing Chris Ikonomidis, and the decision was justified minutes into the second half.

Kilkenny fed Chianese on the edge of the area and his shot found the top corner, although Moss will feel that he could have gotten a stronger hand to the effort.

"He (Chianese) did well, he scored a goal and that's what we want, we want that competition for places," said Popovic.

"Now that the players are getting fitter and more and more players are coming back from injury, we're seeing the level of competition grow at training and if that continues it can only improve our team on match day."

Again, the Jets rallied and a neat one-two between Steve Ugarkovic and Petratos allowed the former a sight of goal and he slotted the ball past Liam Reddy.

But the Glory struck again as Fornaroli's close range shot was deflected beyond a hapless Moss by Kantarovski and the Uruguayan then bagged his second of the game on 71 minutes, finishing superbly with his left foot.

The last word fittingly went to the outstanding Castro as he curled home a shot for the final goal of the contest.

"We've got too many young, inexperienced players and we were up against a side that were very experienced, very dangerous up front and clinical in their finishing," lamented Jets coach Ernie Merrick.

"The worst thing I can do now is go in and criticise the boys because they tried very hard and gave everything, but we made so many mistakes."

It is the first time that Glory have scored six goals in an A-League game since they hammered Brisbane 6-3 in February 2016.