Pippa Middleton oozed radiance and style as she wrapped up warm in a burgundy coat while taking a stroll with her son Arthur.

The sister of Kate Middleton, 36, appeared in high spirits as she braved the winter chill to take her one-year-old child food shopping at a Sainsbury's store in London on December 20.

The socialite and author looked casually fashionable in a stylish coat that featured a matching belt around the waist layered over a pair of black skinny jeans as she took a step out into the capital while pushing a blue pram.

Pippa Middleton, 36, looked fashionable in a burgundy coat layered over a pair of skinny black jeans as she took her son Arthur food shopping at a Sainsbury's store in London

Pippa teamed her ensemble with a grey polo neck to shield herself from the winter chill and a pair of comfortable flat white sneakers.

Letting her brunette locks cascade down her shoulders, the doting mother-of-one donned natural make-up to accentuate her features.

As she walked through the city streets, the author of Celebrate: A year of British festivities for families and friends appeared in her element as she kept checking on her son and gave him a reassuring smile.

She was later seen entering Sainsbury's store and scanning through the vast array of soups on offer.

Pippa's sighting comes two months after she revealed she often takes her son Arthur to her local baby gym for regular workouts in her Waitrose Weekend fitness column.

The sister of Kate Middleton appeared in high spirits as she stepped outside with her one-year-old son

The socialite and author teamed her stylish coat with a pair of black skinny jeans and flat white sneakers

In the column she wrote: 'I needed to find something more than just park walks in the pram.

'Our local baby gym has been a saving grace. It’s a big space full of fun, soft objects, play mats, stairs, balls, swing, mini trampolines and more to stimulate and physically engage babies and toddlers.'

Pippa and James celebrated the arrival of their first child in October last year and she is regularly spotted balancing her motherly duties with her gym routine.

Despite her high-profile sister, Pippa has chosen to raise her son out of the spotlight and has not yet made any public outings with baby Arthur.

Pippa was last seen out with her mother, Carole Middleton, earlier this month as they arrived for a charity carol concert at St Luke's Church, just off the King's Road in Chelsea, south-west London.