They were crowned the winners of Love Island Australia earlier this year.

And on Saturday, Josh Packham, 26, and Anna McEvoy, 27, proved they're still going strong.

In photos shared to their respective Instagram accounts, the lovebirds packed on the PDA while soaking in the views at Warriewood Beach in New South Wales.

Going strong! Love Island Australia winners Josh Packham, 26, and Anna McEvoy, 27, packed on the PDA for an impromptu beach photoshoot, at Warriewood Beach on Saturday

In one picture, the couple straddled one another on a clifftop and gazed into each other's eyes.

Anna sported a black T-shirt tied at the waist, and black G-string briefs that drew attention to her lean legs.

Her blonde locks were secured into a half-up, half-down do, and she accessorised with one delicate bracelet.

The look of love: In one photo shared to Josh's official Instagram page, the lovebirds gazed into one another's eyes, with stunning ocean views in the background

Another photo saw Anna standing upright and wrapping her arms around Josh, who showed off his buff frame in just a pair of black boardshorts.

Josh captioned his post 'THE look' while Anna wrote 'Just you and me'.

In an interview with Daily Mail Australia after their Love Island victory, Anna and Josh admitted that winning the show felt 'super surreal'.

No second-guessing: Anna and Josh told Daily Mail Australia after winning the show, that they never doubted their relationship for a second

But they said they never doubted their relationship for a second, with Anna claiming there was an 'instant connection' between them.

'When you meet that person, you just get an instant spark, and you kind of just know,' she said.

'I think we were lucky. I don't think that there's any secret or secret recipe to success, it was just that we had an instant connection, we really liked each other.'

Chemistry: 'I think we were lucky. I don't think that there's any secret or secret recipe to success, it was just that we had an instant connection, we really liked each other,' Anna said

Josh admitted it's been a long time since he's felt such a strong connection with anyone.

'We just saw the good in one another. I think that's the most important thing,' he added.

'I haven't opened myself up like this in a long time,' Josh continued.

'Expressing my feelings to Anna, I started to well up, and I tried to hold it, but I had to take a moment to take a deep breath and just get those words out.'