Brendan Rodgers is at last getting the credit he deserves. His achievements during his three years in charge of Liverpool have often been diluted, with critics pointing to his good fortune in inheriting Luis Suarez. At Celtic, he won the SPL twice in a row, but doubters then noted the lack of competition north of the border and their dominance prior to his arrival.

His early tweaking of a Leicester City side that was slowly sinking down the Premier League table prior to his arrival in February was then attributed to the strength of the squad he inherited from Claude Puel. But with the Foxes second in the top flight and four points ahead of Manchester City prior to Saturday’s clash with Pep Guardiola’s side, his tactical acumen is at last being afforded the respect it deserves.

Leicester go into the game as the second-best team in England and with a five-point lead over third-placed City to show for it. They have the best defensive record in the division, having conceded just 11 goals in 17 games, and have afforded their opponents an average of just 10 shots on goal per game. Prior to last weekend’s draw against Norwich, they were on a club record eight-match winning streak. But just how has Rodgers’ done it? Sportsmail finds out...

Brendan Rodgers has transformed Leicester City into the second best club in England

Leicester were on an eight-match winning streak until their draw with Norwich City

The Foxes also reached the semi-finals of the Carabao Cup with victory over Everton

The system

Leicester’s pressing game has often been compared to City’s, but while Rodgers’ philosophy features some of the staple components of Guardiola’s system, it is equally if not more comparable to the ‘rock and roll’ football of Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool.

Leicester’s preferred 4-1-4-1 formation is built upon an aggressive, organised pressing game which aims to win possession back high up the pitch before using their pacey, creative talents to make direct forward passes that slice open the back four before they can regroup.

Leicester's pressing system is led by Jamie Vardy closing down opposition defenders

Much like Klopp’s employment of Roberto Firmino, the Foxes’ press is led by their lone striker, Jamie Vardy, with their wide players tucking in and continuing to press in the event Vardy can’t retrieve possession.

The Foxes operate with a single holding midfielder, Wilfred Ndidi, and two attacking midfielders, James Maddison and Youri Tielemans, who operate between the No 6 and No 8 positions, as Kevin De Bruyne and David Silva do for City.

At the back, Leicester’s defence operates with a high line to restrict space, a trait found in both Klopp and Guardiola’s sides, though there is often less emphasis on their full-backs to bomb on, unless they’ve established firm control of a game.

The best back four in England

A criticism aimed at Rodgers at Liverpool was his indulgence in attack and failure to build a solid back four. But in the four years that have passed since his Anfield exit, the Northern Irishman has shown his evolution as a coach in building the best back four in England.

His first choice defence of Ben Chilwell, Jonny Evans, Caglar Soyuncu and Ricardo Pereira push high up the pitch to restrict the space in which their opponents can work, while remaining compact so they have sufficient numbers to prevent counter-attacks.

Rodgers sold his best centre-back, Harry Maguire, to Manchester United in August, without signing a replacement. He then made another bold move in installing Soyuncu as Jonny Evans’ partner, despite him making just six appearances in 2018-19.

Jonny Evans and Caglar Soyuncu have formed a formidable centre-back partnership

Ben Chilwell and Ricardo Pereira provide defensive security but also an attacking threat

It’s a decision that has paid off handsomely. Soyuncu acts as the aggressor, stepping into midfield to intercept passes and darting out wide to cover his full-backs when they venture further up the pitch. Evans, meanwhile, acts as the brains of the back four and sits deeper, helping to manage Soyuncu’s movements and his early impulsive streak.

At full-back, Ben Chilwell and Ricardo Pereira have the athleticism to run from box to box but often maintain their shape to ensure Leicester are alive to attacks. When in the ascendancy, the pair surpass their centre-backs and push further upfield to compress space and add an additional attacking threat.

The engine room

N’Golo Kante was arguably the biggest bargain in Premier League history and his replacement, Wilfred Ndidi, has emerged as another steal.

The 23-year-old has a dual role, operating as Leicester’s solitary midfield pivot in Rodgers’ preferred 4-1-4-1 formation, but also as an emergency full-back when Chilwell and Pereira advance further up the pitch.

Despite the defensive nature of his role, Ndidi, like the rest of his team-mates, will often push high up the pitch to stop counter-attacks before they’ve reached Leicester’s half. His discipline is also key in giving his fellow midfielders freedom to attack the final third.

Wilfred Ndidi performs a crucial role in Leicester's side as their deep lying midfielder

Youri Tielemans drifts between a No.6 and No.8 role to give Leicester craft and defensive cover

James Maddison and Youri Tielemans are key to unlocking defences and drift between No.6 and No.8 roles. The pair use their craft to provide the forward passes for Vardy to prosper but also the graft to win the ball back when Leicester lose possession.

Neither player has previously been noted for their aggressiveness in the tackle, but both possess the energy to press for 90 minutes and the intelligence to intercept forward passes before they reach their intended targets.

Indeed, Rodgers recently revealed that he’d worked closely with both players to add defensive grit to their game, with the 46-year-old comparing Maddison’s work to that of Jordan Henderson at Liverpool.

The final third

Leicester’s success has been a collective effort, but Vardy is arguably the most important cog in their machine and has already contributed 16 goals in 17 Premier League games this season, making him the division’s top goalscorer.

Vardy leads Leicester’s press, but has evolved his game to ensure he operates within specific areas of the pitch, meaning he still has sufficient energy to exploit space in behind the opposition back four and score goals.

The 31-year-old will press the member of the opposition defence in possession but if unsuccessful in winning the ball back, he then positions himself to cut off a possible passing angle. Crucially, that position also leaves him in space to receive a forward pass.

Vardy is enjoying the best season of his career having scored 17 goals in 18 league games

Vardy has averaged just 20 touches per game this season but remains Leicester's key man

Rodgers has worked with Vardy on his positional sense to make the most of his blistering pace

Rodgers’ man-management has been key to Vardy’s evolution. This season, Vardy has averaged just 20 touches of the ball per game but is on track for the best goalscoring season of his career thanks to a subtle tweak of his role.

He has also been aided by Leicester’s two first choice wide players, Ayoze Perez and Harvey Barnes, who follow Vardy’s pressing lead and tuck inside to compress space in the final third and then supply him with the fast passing interchanges that have created many of his goals.