Prime Minister Scott Morrison has been slammed for holidaying in Hawaii during the bushfire crisis.

But one politician - former Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, has stayed in town, and was spotted in Sydney on Saturday night.

The 65-year-old was joined by his wife Lucy, 61, at the official opening of the Sydney Coliseum Theatre in Western Sydney.

Well we know where he is! Former PM Malcolm Turnbull (right) led the celebrity arrivals alongside his wife Lucy (right) at the opening of the Sydney Coliseum Theatre

Malcolm looked dapper in a checked suit jacket in varying shades of blue throughout the fabric.

He paired the top with a crisp white, buttoned-up shirt and navy blue slacks, completing the look with black leather dress shoes.

Looking relaxed, the politician carried his reading glasses in his hand and smiled widely for cameras.

There he is! Prime Minister Scott Morrison has been slammed for holidaying in Hawaii during the bushfire crisis. But one politician - former Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull, has stayed in town, and was spotted in Sydney on Saturday night

Smart: Malcolm looked dapper in a checked suit jacket in varying shades of blue throughout the fabric

Nice night: He paired the top with a crisp white, buttoned-up shirt and navy blue slacks. Looking relaxed, the politician carried his reading glasses in his hand

Lucy meanwhile looked stunning in a sparkling short-sleeved blouse coupled with a flirty black satin skirt.

She wore a pointed black heel and carried a patent black leather clutch bag, finished the look with a bangle.

Lucy opted for a dead-straight hairdo, statement earrings and soft makeup with a stand-out bold red lip.

Bright: Lucy meanwhile looked stunning in a sparkling short-sleeved blouse coupled with a flirty black satin skirt

Looking good: Lucy opted for a dead-straight hairdo, statement earrings and soft makeup with a stand-out bold red lip

While Malcolm is in town, Scott Morrison had earlier defended jetting off to Hawaii for a family holiday at the height of the bushfire crisis, pointing out he doesn't 'hold a hose' like firefighters.

The Australian Prime Minister further angered voters in a radio interview on Friday as he apologised for 'any offence caused' by his decision to go on holiday to the idyllic American island with his wife and two daughters.

'It's not easy to get back, but I will as soon as I can,' Mr Morrison told 2GB radio.

It's believed he is now heading back to Australia after cutting his tropical vacation short.

A fine pair! Also in attendance at the opening was Richard Wilkins (right) and his partner Virginia Burmeister (left). Richard looked chic in a fitted black suit with an open white shirt

Rock chic: Virginia opted for an edgy ensemble with a lace camisole, black skinny jeans and hoop earrings

Also in attendance at the opening was Richard Wilkins and his partner Virginia Burmeister.

Richard looked chic in a fitted black suit with an open white shirt underneath, completing the look with leather dress shoes and a silver chain.

Virginia opted for an edgy ensemble with a lace camisole, black skinny jeans and an open-toed leather boot, as well as hoop earrings.