She recently wowed audiences with her dance routines on Strictly Come Dancing but left the show after performing a Vogue dance.

And away from the dance floor, Michelle Visage was still looking sensational as she stepped out in a faux fur-trimmed jacket for the Gavin And Stacey One Show Christmas special in London on Friday night.

The RuPaul's Drag Race UK star, 51, was joined by her fellow Strictly contestant Alex Scott, 35, who dazzled in a sparkly green RIXO dress.

Looking good: Michelle Visage, 51, looked sensational as she stepped out in a faux fur trimmed jacket for the Gavin and Stacey One Show Christmas special in London on Friday night

Michelle cut a stylish figure in wide-leg tailored trousers and a floating black jacket, which boasted fur around the cuffs and neckline.

She wore her long black locks down and perfectly straight and added a pop of colour with fantastic red nails and a sparkly eye-shadow.

Former footballer Alex also looked stunning in a green dress which was covered in sparkling stripes and with a demi-roll neck.

The beauty flaunted her toned legs in a pair of heeled ankle boots and paired her eye-catching gown with a long jacket.

Stunning: Alex Scott, 35, who also appeared in the latest series of Strictly Come Dancing, flashed her toned pins in a sparkly green Rixo dress

Heading home: Michelle's jacket boasted fur around the cuffs and neckline, left, while Alex, right, donned a smart coat as she left the studio

To complete her look, Alex styled her tresses into a chic up do and added a slick of makeup including a nude lipstick.

Also seen at the party was Gavin and Stacey star Joanna Page who appeared to be in high spirits as she stepped out of the studios.

The actress, 42, also opted for an all black ensemble and wore a stylish coat with buttons on the front to keep warm in the chilly winter weather.

Smile: Gavin and Stacey star Joanna Page, 42, also cut a stylish figure in a long black jacket and blue shiny ankle boots

While comedian Patrick Kielty, 48, looked dapper in a blue shirt and tan jacket which he paired with smart leather shoes.

It comes after Gavin and Stacey stars Ruth Jones, 53, and Rob Brydon, 54, said that filming the upcoming reunion was 'the happiest job they've ever done.'

Speaking to Graham Norton, actress Ruth - who plays the loudmouthed Welsh Nessa - also said she feels 'empowered' playing the character due to her brazen, no-holds-barred nature.

Smart: Comedian Patrick Kielty, 48, looked dapper in a blue shirt and tan jacket as he stepped out of the studios with a huge smile on his face

The Gavin and Stacey Christmas Special comes 10 years after the BBC show came to an end, and sees the titular couple reunite their families for a Christmas celebration in Barry.

Speaking about the special, Ruth says: 'It's crazy that it's been so long.'

Rob - who plays the hilarious Uncle Bryn - added: 'Getting everyone together was amazing. I was sure it wouldn't happen because there was literally a two-week window.

'But we did and it was so lovely and so emotional. I'd seen pretty much everyone over the years, but not all together. It was the happiest job I have ever done.'

It's nearly here! Gavin and Stacey stars Ruth Jones, 53, and Rob Brydon, 54, recently revealed that filming the Christmas reunion was 'the happiest job they've ever done'

As ever Ruth is tight-lipped about plot details for the special, but did reveal one story idea that never made it into the final cut.

She says: 'We were keen to keep the warmth that was always there.

'You think about some spectacular story lines and we toyed with the idea of Gavin having an affair or Gavin and Stacy divorcing, but we really wanted to hold on to the heart of the original show and I hope we've done it.

'We had to keep it a secret for such a long time so the joy of being able to announce it was incredible.'