Police have identified a 'person of interest' in the fatal stabbing of San Francisco 49ers quarterback C.J. Beathard's brother and another man outside a bar.

Clayton Beathard, 22, was stabbed to death along with Paul Trapeni III, 21, on Saturday shortly before 3am outside The Dogwood Bar in Nashville, Tennessee, following an alleged argument over a woman.

Officers investigating the double murder announced on Sunday they have identified a person of interest in the killings.

Police did not identify any suspects but said they want to question Michael D. Mosley.

Nashville Police appealed for the public's help to find the 23-year-old's whereabouts.

Mosley was last known to have lived in Pegram, Tennessee, but efforts to track him down have been unsuccessful, according to WSMV.

Surveillance footage of three men and a woman police want to bring in for questioning was also released on Saturday.

Detectives are looking to question Michael D. Mosley, 23, following Saturday morning's double fatal stabbing outside The Dogwood Bar in Nashville, Tennessee

Clayton Beathard, the brother of San Francisco 49ers' C.J. Beathard and the son of country singer, Casey Beathard, was killed in a stabbing outside of a bar in Nashville in the early hours of Saturday morning

Paul Trapeni also died after being stabbed in the fight outside The Dogwood Bar

The stabbings 'appear to have resulted from an argument over a woman that began inside Dogwood Bar and then turned physical when the parties went outside', police said.

A third victim, Alvin Jefferson Bethurum, 21, suffered injuries to his eye and arm and is continuing the recover, authorities said.

Clayton and Paul Trapeni were stabbed in their sides and both taken to Vanderbilt Medical Center where they were pronounced dead, police said.

Police are trying to learn more about what led up to the altercation involving the three men who were all stabbed.

It is thought that multiple people were involved in the outdoor fight.

Officers said it appears the fight was over an 'unwanted' advance made 'by a man toward a woman in the bar'.

A spokesman for Metro Nashville Police said Mosely is believed to have 'definitive information' as he was seen 'talking with the woman' in the CCTV footage release on Saturday.

He said: 'Midtown Hills Precinct detectives investigating Saturday morning's fatal stabbing of two men during a fight outside The Dogwood Bar at 1907 Division Street are asking for the public's assistance in locating Michael D. Mosley, 23, who is strongly believed to have definitive information about the murders and is being sought for questioning only at this time.

'Mosley has been identified as being present both inside and outside of The Dogwood Bar, including when the fight occurred.

San Francisco 49ers Quarterback C.J. Beathard during the NFL game between the Seattle Seahawks earlier this month. His coach Kyle Shanahan said he was 'distraught' after finding out his brother had died

Cops released CCTV footage from inside the bar, showing people police want to question

Surveillance footage showed the woman and three men Metro Nashville Police want to speak to over the fight that lead to two men being fatally stabbed

'Mosley is the person who was talking with the woman at the bottom of the screen in the video released by the MNPD Saturday night.'

Police also said they had managed to identify everyone in the CCTV footage released over the weekend, except for a man wearing a Nike sweatshirt.

The Beathard brothers are grandsons of Hall of Fame football executive Bobby Beathard and sons of country music songwriter Casey Beathard and Susan Beathard.

Bethurum was also a 2016 graduate of Battle Ground Academy.

Clayton played football at Long Island University in New York City and was classmates and friends with Trapeni at Battle Ground Academy in Franklin, Tennessee.

C.J. Beathard, 26, the backup quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers immediately left the team and returned to the Nashville area to support his family on Saturday following news of the stabbing.

So far this season he has played 13 games in his three-year NFL career.

On Sunday the San Francisco 49ers shared touching video of Coach Shanahan's heartbreaking speech in the locker room after the team beat the Los Angeles Rams 34-31.

Police were called to the Dogwood bar on Division Street in Nashville just before 3am Saturday

Police shared these images (above) asking for help in identifying the people pictured in surveillance footage at the bar for questioning on the stabbings

In the clip the camera captures the downcast and emotional faces of Beathard's teammates, mourning the loss of their teammates' brother.

Head coach Kyle Shanahan reportedly rushed into C.J.'s room to offer comfort when hearing of the tragic news.

He described his quarterback as being 'distraught' and could 'barely walk' after finding out his brother had died.

The Beathard family released a statement on Saturday to the Tennessean saying: 'It's times like this I wish had Instagram and social media because the love and prayers have been so overwhelming. We cannot possibly thank you at the rate they come in texts and phone calls,' the statement said.

'Clay was an amazing, big and soft-hearted human being with an undeniable love for the Lord. He had his family's, friends' and teammates' backs even to a fault. I wish he would have been more inclined to take the high road but he hated ''wrong''.

'Yes, he was stubborn sometimes but mostly because his beliefs were strong. He lived a full life except for the chance at being the incredible father I knew he would have been.

'He loved kids, underdogs and the less fortunate. His little sister was his world and his love and pride for his older brothers was off the charts. He will be missed. That is an understatement. Nobody's light shined like his when he smiled.'