His self-proclaimed title as the Special One raised a few smiles as he was unveiled as Chelsea manager in 2004, but Jose Mourinho really did put Chelsea on the map.

The 56-year-old's influence on the club is undeniable across two spells and eight trophies - but with his former player Frank Lampard now taking the reins and stamping his mark in a new era, it looks like that grip has loosened. A number of his favoured personnel have departed and a new-look Chelsea is giving youngsters an opportunity to shine.

Mourinho faced criticism for never giving youth a chance, but Lampard has shown that Chelsea's young guns can flourish - Tammy Abraham, Mason Mount and Fikayo Tomori are just some of the examples that the club's youth system is thriving and producing players that can deliver at the top level.

Jose Mourinho brought enormous success to Chelsea and put them on the map as a club

He called himself the Special One when arriving at Chelsea in 2004 - he was true to his word

When Lampard's side travel to play Tottenham this weekend, it will be an almost unrecognisable team to what Jose built in his time at the Bridge. His teams have always been about organisation at the back and hitting teams on the break, whereas Lampard's youthful outfit aren't afraid to do things with a flourish and pass it out around starting from the back.

Mourinho did things his way, and he enjoyed an enormous amount of success.

Fresh from a stunning Champions League triumph with Porto, he came to Stamford Bridge and conquered - swooping the Premier League crown and the League Cup in his first season and retaining the title in his second campaign.

Frank Lampard was key under Mourinho's Chelsea but is now changing things up as manager

The likes of Andriy Shevchenko, Didier Drogba, Michael Essien, Ricardo Carvalho and Petr Cech were all brought in as the Blues won six trophies with Jose at the helm, but he wasn't done there even after leaving the club in 2007.

His second spell saw him return off the back of success in Serie A and La Liga, and he soon had Chelsea back in the limelight again after clinching his third league title, with Diego Costa, Eden Hazard, Nemanja Matic and Cesc Fabregas playing a starring role in his comeback spell.

What should have been the dream reunion ended in tears as Mourinho was sacked half way through the 2015-16 season back in west London, with Chelsea looking more like relegation candidates than title challengers.

But even in his absence, Mourinho was still having an impact on the team.

Many of the big names that featured under Mourinho are gone with Lampard trusting in youth

Four managers have been in the dugout since the Portuguese boss departed, with each one retaining a chunk of his key personnel. Antonio Conte brought the club up from the rubble by winning the title in his first season with practically the same team Mourinho left behind. Costa, a Mourinho signing, was the top scorer while Matic and Fabregas both featured prominently in midfield.

Under the leadership of Maurizio Sarri a handful of players from Jose's title-winning squad were involved as he led them to third place in the league and a Europa League triumph last season, with Azpilicueta, Hazard, Willian and Gary Cahill all selected in the squad for the final against Arsenal.

But fast forward to the present day under Lampard and you can see that the remnants of Jose's side have almost completely vanished.

Thibaut Courtois and Hazard have left for Real Madrid, Branislav Ivanovic has gone back to Russia, John Terry and Drogba have retired, Matic is at United and Costa is at Atletico Madrid.

Lampard and Mourinho's relationship is not thought to be as close as it once was at Chelsea

Willian and Cesar Azpilicueta are two of just three stars left from Mourinho's title winning side

The only recognisable faces from his tenure are Kurt Zouma, Azpilicueta and Willian. Lampard has freshened his team up - brushing off a potentially damaging transfer embargo and using it as an chance to give his talented youth stars a run in the team.

Abraham has come in and become the Premier League's top scorer, Mount has become a staple in the midfield and Tomori and Reece James are nailing down places at the back.

And while Lampard admitted he has taken inspiration from his previous Chelsea managers, having learned from the likes of Carlo Ancelotti and Rafa Benitez, it doesn't look like he will be taking a leaf out of Jose's book.

Speaking as a Manchester City player after facing his former side in 2015, Lampard said they hadn't talked much since he left Chelsea.

Lampard is trying to forge his own legacy at Chelsea and he has revamped the playing style

'This is football, it's sport and I haven't spoken to him that much recently,' he said. 'I don't think there's room for bitterness and if there is then I'll deal with that down the line.'

After Lampard's men were thumped 4-0 in his first game as Manchester United boss, Mourinho dug into them in his role as Sky Sports pundit, and the former Blues midfielder brushed off his criticism while giving an update on their relationship.

'With Jose we would have texts from time to time,' he said. 'We had some at the start of the season around the Manchester United game where he had a little go!

Mourinho is undergoing a new chapter at Tottenham, hoping to banish his controversial past

'In terms of [Mourinho], yeah, we have a relationship.'

Much has been made of Mourinho reinventing himself at Tottenham - less focus on him, less of the explosive press conference outbursts and the training ground bust-ups and more focus on improving the team. At the same time, Lampard is reinventing Chelsea in a new chapter where the old guard that brought the club so much success are long gone.

Mourinho promised never to leave Chelsea after rejoining them in 2013 and said he would never manage Spurs, yet here we are.

When he shakes hands with Lampard in the dugout on Sunday it will represent the start of a new era, where his association with Chelsea comes to a definitive end.