She was previously branded 'the most hated woman in Australia' for voting out an Australian Survivor fan favourite last season.

But now Pia Miranda has proved that she has a heart of gold, spending her $500,000 Survivor prize money on her mortgage and taking her two children to Disneyland.

The 46-year-old took to Instagram on Friday to share a sweet snap of her daughter Lily, nine, and son James, six at the iconic Disneyland castle.

Family: Pia Miranda took to Instagram on Friday to share an excited snap of her daughter Lily, nine, and son James, six at the iconic Disneyland castle

In the picture, Pia's two adorable children cuddled up to each other in front of the popular photo-site.

'Happiest place on Earth,' Pia captioned the post.

It comes after Pia revealed on Channel Seven's The Morning Show earlier this month she felt guilty about leaving her two young children for nearly two months while going on Australian Survivor.

Superstar: Pia took home $500,000 after winning the most recent season of Australian Survivor

'It was a big sacrifice for them. I mean, I did go away for seven weeks and that's a lot for kids to handle so I really needed to give them a little carrot. So I'm lucky that I won and we can really go celebrate together,' she said.

Pia was just as excited for the Disney trip as her children were, with the star saying that she needed a holiday after her 'massive year'.

'I'm happy to have a little break and go and spend time with the kids,' she said.

'Massive year': Pia seemed just as excited for the Disney trip as her children are, with the star needing a holiday after her stint on Australian Survivor

Pia previously explained how winning the enormous prize money changed her family's life.

'We're just like a normal Australian family that has to save up a really long time to go on holidays if we get to go on any at all. It's an incredibly amazing opportunity where we can put the money on our mortgage and take the kids to Disneyland,' she said.

Her husband Luke Hannigan and their two children made an appearance on Australian Survivor, joining her in Fiji for the finale.

'Big sacrifice': Pia revealed she felt guilty about leaving two young children for nearly two months while going on Australian Survivor

She initially had some hesitations about her kids coming out to the jungle, admitting she was worried they would get upset from seeing her after so long.

'I was very emaciated and brown and I had vitiligo all over my face. I didn't look quite normal,' she explained.

But once the family arrived, she was 'so glad' that they came.