A teen girl who died alongside her sister in a horrific crash sent a text saying she feared for her life just moments before it happened.

New Zealand sisters Tayla Alexander, 17, and Sunmara Alexander, 15, were in a devastating crash in Port Hills near Christchurch on the night of November 17 when the car they were in went off a cliff.

The 19-year-old man who was driving survived but they both died.

Moments before the crash Tayla sent an unsettling text to her friend that revealed she feared for her safety, Stuff reported.

New Zealand sisters Tayla (pictured left), 17 and Sunmara (pictured right), 16, died as the result of a fiery crash on November 17 after Tayla texted a friend that she feared for her life

The text said: 'Bro, I'm gonna die tonight.'

Her friend texted back: 'Oh my god, WTF Tayla.'

'I've never been driven around the Port Hills so fast before,' Tayla responded.

The car was being driven by a 19-year-old man when they crashed around 11pm.

Onlookers and emergency services pulled them from the fiery wreckage and Tayla died while Sunmara suffered from extensive burns.

She later died at at Auckland's Middlemore Hospital on December 13, the day of her 16th birthday.

Their father, John Alexander, told Stuff that he does not blame the driver for the death of his two girls

Mr Alexander said: 'I forgive him, he's just young himself. Being angry or bringing hate into it isn't going to change anything, it isn't going to bring Tayla and Sunmara back.'

Tayla died in the crash (pictured) while Sunmara later died in hospital on her 16th birthday

He also told of his grief and said: 'My whole life just got ripped out from under me, everything just got taken away from me in one night.

Mr Alexander also clarified rumours surrounding the accident in a Facebook post and explained that there was no racing or other car involved.

'It's just a tragic accident that has completely destroyed me,' he said.

A friend of the family, Kelly Forster, created a change.org petition on behalf of Mr Alexander that was aimed at the New Zealand Transport Agency, Parliament and Christchurch City Council.

She said that the mountainous road should be made safer to protect the young people using it.

'I propose the road be controlled during weekend evenings by a closed barrier system to prevent needless racing or speeding around these hills causing injury and death,' said Ms Foster.

The petition had amassed 3,780 signatures by Saturday night.