Stormzy has attacked Boris Johnson for spurring on racists in the UK and claimed his past comments embolden hate-mongers.

The grime artist said the country was 'definitely, 100% racist' and lashed out at the Prime Minister for fuelling a supposed rise in tropes and slurs.

The staunch Jeremy Corbyn supporter pointed to the journalist-turned-politician's articles which made references to 'piccaninnies' with 'watermelon smiles'.

The rapper, 26, also suggested he would find accepting an MBE or OBE uncomfortable because of Britain's 'dark' colonial legacy.

In his latest onslaught against the PM, he told Italy's La Repubblica: 'If the top person can openly say this racist thing - the 'piccaninies' remarks, 'watermelon smiles', comparing Muslim women to a letterbox.

Stormzy has attacked Boris Johnson for spurring on racists in the UK and claimed his past comments gives credence to hate

The grime artist said the country was 'definitely, 100% racist' and lashed out at the Prime Minister (pictured in the Commons on Friday) for fuelling a supposed rise in tropes and slurs

Stormzy, who is an outspoken supporter of Jeremy Corbyn, found himself in hot water this week after telling primary school children 'Boris is a bad bad man'

'If that is our figurehead, the top man, the leader we have to follow and he openly says these things, he encourages hate.'

Stormzy found himself in hot water this week after telling primary school children 'Boris is a bad bad man'.

Political rivals have often raided the archives of the Daily Telegraph and Spectator -where Mr Johnson used to work - to rummage for controversial comments.

Stormzy said that since the Conservative leader took charge in Number 10, hate language has spiked because racists feel emboldened by the premier's own comments.

Stormzy said: 'Before, people had to hide their racism. If you felt something bad about black people, about Muslims, you had to shut up.

'Now these people have the confidence to come out in public to say everything. This is scary to me, that scares the s*** out of me'.'

But he claimed many Britons are in denial about the extend of racism plaguing the UK.

The musician, real name Michael Ebenazer Kwadjo Omari Owuo, said when he alleged the country is racist, the response is: 'No, it's not.

'You're successful. Look at London, there's loads of black people.'

And it is not just modern day Britain which the rapper thinks is gripped by racism, he also used the interview to lay into its history of imperialism.

While conceding his mother would be proud if her son were awarded an MBE or OBE, Stormzy said the Empire has 'a very dark history' which would make accepting such an honour uncomfortable.

Since shooting to international superstardom, the Brit Award-winner regularly uses his platform to beat the drum for Labour and bash the Tories.

In last week's election, he joined forces with a string of celebrities urging fans to support Mr Corbyn.

He also weighs in on current affairs on stage, memorably chanting 'oh Jeremy Corbyn' at Glastonbury and savaging Theresa May's response to Grenfell live at the Brit Awards.

Stormzy' summer Number 1, Vossi Bop, contains the lyric 'f*** the government and f*** Boris', which he bellowed on Thursday night in during a guest appearance at t Harry Styles' gig in Camden, north London.

After his would-be PM suffered humiliation at the ballot box last Thursday, the rapper went into a classroom and told young boys and girls 'Boris is a bad bad man'.

This sparked fury online, led by GMB presenter Piers Morgan who said: 'He shouldn't have done this, and shouldn't have been allowed to do this.'

The bemused rapper hit back, writing: 'The kid asked me a question and I replied truthfully nothing wrong with that Piers lol.'

This prompted another response from Piers: 'Come off it @stormzy - saying stuff like that to a bunch of very young schoolkids isn't cool, and you know it. You're a hugely influential role model now to so many youngsters, wield that power more carefully.'

But the rapper refused to back down, telling the TV host: 'No it isn't cool, it's the truth lol. Again, they asked me a question and I answered it truthfully and with jest. I gave em my opinion, they'll grow up and be able to make their own, this ain't a shocking incident pal sorry lol.'