Advertisement

She's had a busy year filming Oliver Twist and touring the world.

And Rita Ora made sure she took some well-earned downtime as she enjoyed a lavish superyacht trip during her family Christmas getaway to St. Barts on Friday.

The Anywhere hitmaker, 29, has joined her mother Vera, father Besnik, sister Elena and brother Don, 22, for the luxury trip.

Holiday: Rita Ora made sure she took some well-earned downtime as she enjoyed a lavish superyacht trip during her family Christmas getaway to St. Barts on Friday

Rita looked incredible on the superyacht trip as she showcased her toned curves in a tiny metallic blue bikini top and green thong bottoms.

Adding some glamorous touches, she teamed the swimwear with a collection of thick gold chain necklaces and earrings.

Rita styled her cropped blonde locks into a relaxed tousled hairdo, she appeared to go make-up free as she showcased her natural beauty.

Sisters: The Girls singer was joined by her sister Elena on the superyacht who puffed on a cigarette as they shared an in-joke together during their lavish excursion

Cooling down: Rita decided to take a dip in the crystal clear ocean as she went on to take a selfie of herself enjoying the fun superyacht experience

What a woman! Rita styled her cropped blonde locks into a relaxed tousled hairdo, she appeared to go make-up free as she showcased her natural beauty

I'm ready for my close-up! The star went on to pose up a storm on the superyacht as her younger brother Don snapped photos of her

Rita appeared relaxed and care-free as she made the most of her getaway by taking a dip in the ocean, sharing in-jokes with her sister Elena and taking selfies with the idyllic location as her background.

Yet in true fashionista style, the singer decided to have a swimwear change as she was later seen in a khaki green triangle bikini with pink reflective sunglasses and a black silk headband as her family got a rubber dinghy back to shore.

The star also took to Instagram to share some snaps from her family outing where she looked incredible and put on an eye-popping display in the swimwear.

Fun in the sun: Rita showered on the back of the superyacht after her dip in the ocean while her brother soaked up the sun

Party! The singer appeared to be listening to music as she playfully threw her arms in the air before checking her mobile

Giddy: Rita appeared deep in thought as she relaxed on the back of the superyacht and dipped her toe in the ocean

Sweet: The singer sweetly gave her sister Elena a hug as they enjoyed quality family time together

Clearly feeling reflective, she captioned one photo with: 'Holiday starts now. 2019...it’s been...busy...one movie Oliver Twist (can’t wait for you all to see it next year!)

'One world tour one tv show 5 campaigns a few magazine covers 4 music videos, prepping for 2020...launched my own tequila @prosperotequila which got ranked top 10 first year!! (number 7)

'Hmmmm what else? It’ll come to me, it’s late and I’m tired while I’m posting this but I love you and I get moushiiii on vacation so deal with it...I’m grateful and ready for 2020.'

Go for it! The family went on to jump into the ocean together during their Christmas getaway

Bikini change! Yet in true fashionista style, the singer decided to have a swimwear change as she was later seen in a khaki green triangle bikini by La Perla with pink reflective sunglasses and a black silk hair wrap

Travelling in style: Rita and her family got a rubber dinghy back to shore

Feeling festive: The star also took to Instagram to share some snaps where she looked incredible and put on an eye-popping display in a tiny blue strapless bikini which showed off her ample assets

Reflective: Clearly feeling reflective, she captioned one photo with: 'Holiday starts now. 2019...it’s been...busy...one movie Oliver Twist (can’t wait for you all to see it next year!). One world tour one tv show 5 campaigns a few magazine covers 4 music videos, prepping for 2020...launched my own tequila @prosperotequila which got ranked top 10 first year!! (number 7)

She added: 'Hmmmm what else? It’ll come to me, it’s late and I’m tired while I’m posting this but I love you and I get moushiiii on vacation so deal with it...I’m grateful and ready for 2020.'

While she captioned another bikini-clad photo wearing the blue swimwear: 'Let the curly fro go bro.'

Rita also shared several pictures of St. Barts, including one sweet photo of mother Vera and father Besnik cosying up.

The singer's mother, Vera, also posted snaps of their family getaway, including a glamorous mother-daughter photo.

Family: Rita also shared several pictures of St. Barts, including one sweet photo of mother Vera and father Besnik cosying up

Like mother, like daughter: The singer's mother, Vera, also posted snaps of their family getaway to Instagram

Fabulous: In one glamorous mother-daughter photo, Rita showed off her sensational figure yet again in a khaki green bikini with high-waisted bottoms and a triangle top

Candid: In a different snap, Vera wore an oversized white shirt dress with black sandals and a blue baseball cap as she posed in front of the ocean while sipping a cup of tea

In the picture, Rita showed off her sensational figure yet again in a khaki green bikini by La Perla with high-waisted bottoms and a triangle top.

She teamed the items of swimwear with a long navy blue cardigan and baseball cap.

Meanwhile, Vera, 55, wowed in a bold blue maxi dress with a gold necklace and black square glasses as she posed alongside her famous daughter.

Gorgeous: She captioned it: 'For my darlings, work or a struggle pays off if you are patient enough to see it through! Happy Holidays #VisualsWithVera.'

Idyllic: Vera has also been keeping hers and Rita's fans updated with their lavish family getaway over Christmas

In a different snap, she wore an oversized white shirt dress with black sandals and a blue baseball cap as she posed in front of the ocean while sipping a cup of tea.

She captioned it: 'For my darlings, work or a struggle pays off if you are patient enough to see it through! Happy Holidays #VisualsWithVera.'

Rita is braced for a busy 2020 when The Masked Singer kicks off on January 4, but she was forced to sit out its press launch in December after falling ill.

Her absence let co-panelists Jonathan Ross and Davina McCall able to dish the dirt on the star - who will sit alongside them and guesses which celebrities are singing in front of them while wearing massive costumes.

Sibling: Rita's younger brother, Don, 22, has also been posting pictures from the holiday

'We love Rita, but she was the kid of the team,' Jonathan said. 'She was on her f**king phone the whole time. Checking the gram, checking the gram, checking the gram.

'She said to me "I've just moved into a new house, I'm looking for a hoover". I had to say to her "you're recording a new big show - now is not the time to find yourself a hoover!"'

Jonathan also joked that he was like Rita's uncle and that he and Davina 'shared her' in a 'joint-custody' arrangement.

The Masked Singer will air on ITV in January 2020.

Off sick: Rita is braced for a busy 2020 when The Masked Singer kicks off on January 4, but she was forced to sit out its press launch in December after falling ill (Davina McCall pictured)