Chelsea travel to Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday in what will be their first encounter at the new ground of their bitter rivals, as they also face former manager Jose Mourinho.

Blues fan RORY JENNINGS gives his view on why the fixture could make or break Christmas for the supporters.

Fear, anxiety, physical pain, nausea... just some of the words you could use to describe how I am feeling ahead of Chelsea’s first trip to White Hart Lane since it had its facelift.

Tottenham away is always our most explosive fixture of the season – but this year has a different feeling to it. This isn’t just about club antipathy, three points or local bragging rights, this is about so much more than all of that.

It is about principle. It’s a fight between good and evil.

Tottenham Hotspur and Chelsea will meet in a highly anticipated London derby on Sunday

Frank Lampard will lock horns with his former Chelsea manager Jose Mourinho

Frank Lampard, a man who has always conducted himself brilliantly both on and off the pitch, versus Jose Mourinho, a man so cowardly and devoid of principle that when he pokes you in the eye he does it from behind.

He is a man who has worked at Porto and Benfica, Madrid and Barcelona and Chelsea and Tottenham.

Just think about that for a second and ask yourself what sort of man you must be to do this?

Spurs fans have not taken long to warm to Mourinho as their side's new manager

Spurs have come into form under Mourinho as Toby Alderweireld celebrates a win at Wolves

Season at a glance Live tables

Fixtures

Scores Premier League

Premier League

Championship

League One

League Two

Scottish Premiership

Scottish Div 1

Scottish Div 2

Scottish Div 3

Ligue 1

Serie A

La Liga

Bundesliga





With hindsight, Mourinho going to Tottenham isn’t that surprising. What is surprising is the fact that Tottenham fans are already singing his name. A man they have hated for two decades is suddenly their darling? Where is their principle? Rafa Benitez has never had his name sung in the MHL and never will. Principle.

Sadly, what else isn’t surprising is the upsurge in results. While I don’t think Mourinho is anywhere near the force in football he was in 2005, I concede that he is a decent manager. However, I have seen enough in his recent history to suggest that Christmas may be starting a touch early for all those connected with Chelsea.

We have had some huge results against Mourinho sides recently and his record against his previous opposition isn’t good.

He has had to watch us lift the FA Cup, we have seen him cry on the touchline when Antonio Conte’s glorious side beat Manchester United 4-0, we’ve seen Manchester United beat Tottenham, I have been to Porto twice under him and watched us lose 2-1… (Although, saying that, I could be clutching at straws here because I was also in the San Siro when his Inter team walloped us... but I’m adopting an optimistic approach.)

Mourinho trains his side on Friday ahead at the club's training ground ahead of Sunday's test

Tottenham's surge up the table following Mourinho's arrival puts them on Chelsea's tail

The magnitude of this fixture will not be lost on either manager, but for Lampard it will be especially poignant.

It’s his first managerial match against Tottenham. It’s Chelsea’s first appearance at their new stadium. His form against Tottenham over the years was flawless… pinging in goals from practically the halfway line at Wembley (Or Stamford Bridge - big shout out here to Heurelho Gomes, you hero) ducking the punches of a pitch invader, or making light of their propensity to commemorate an average result with a DVD release.

Lampard almost always had Tottenham’s number – how we could do with him on the pitch considering that we technically haven’t won away at Tottenham since 2012.

Lampard often triumphed against Tottenham as a Chelsea player and will now hope to replicate the same success as manager at Stamford Bridge

Among his playing day highlights included a goal that saw Spurs keeper Heurelho Gomes spill a long range shot to concede in a 2011 Premier League meeting at Stamford Bridge

Yes, we have stopped them qualifying for the Champions League, yes we have beaten them in their first home game at Wembley, yes we have knocked them out of both cup competitions in that time… but not since 2012 have we actually got a result there. That needs to change.

Tottenham have been closing the gap on us at an impressive rate and we need to ensure that we maintain a bit of distance going into the new year.

A draw will do but a win would be the perfect early present… a Tottenham win and Christmas is well and truly cancelled.

Chelsea though lost their last meeting at White Hart Lane in 2017, with Dele Alli scoring twice