Advertisement

A carnival-themed home with its own bowling alley, a castle, and a windmill feature in the most unusual homes on Rightmove this year.

All five of the most unique homes for sale on the property website were picked by the Rightmove team for their stand out features.

Rightmove's Miles Shipside said: 'Stepping through the front door of each of these properties is like being transported into another world. The unique quirks of each home are like nothing I've ever seen before.'

1. Four-bed house in St Leonards-on Sea, East Sussex, £1.5m

Unusual: This East Sussex house has been picked by Rightmove as one of the most unusual properties on its website this year

This colourful property in East Sussex has a carnival theme and includes its own bowling alley in the main living area.

There are chandeliers hanging from wooden beams, bright red velvet corner sofas and 'dodgem' artwork on the walls.

Would you buy it? The carnival-themed house in East Sussex remains unsold and has an asking price of £1.5m

Unique interior design: Inside, it has exposed brickwork walls and chandeliers hanging from wooden beams

Colourful artwork: There is a clown's face hanging above the property's own bowling alley in the main living area

Where's the bathroom? One of the bedrooms at the East Sussex property includes a roll top copper bath tub

The detached house has four bedrooms, and was once a Victorian Turkish bathhouse - hence its name today is The Bath House.

It is being sold via Platform Property estate agents and comes with an asking price of £1.5million.

2. Two-bed penthouse in East London, £2m

This penthouse overlooks the River Thames, but you may not have guessed it from its cave-themed cinema room.

It also has two underground parking spaces, a bar, and a roof terrace with views across London and Canary Wharf.

This £2million penthouse has a roof terrace with a hot tub and views across London and Canary Wharf

The unusual interiors at the luxury penthouse include a bar area, spiral staircase and intriguing ceiling design

The property has good access to transport, being less than two-thirds of a mile from the DLR at South Quay and the Jubilee line at Canary Wharf's London Underground station.

It comes with a share of the freehold, and some hefty service charges of £3,500 a year, along with an asking price of £2million. It is being sold via Hamptons International.

Unlike any other cinema room: The penthouse has a cave-themed cinema room with views of the capital's skyline

The roof terrace has a fake grass area that plays host to a gnome and a mushroom-themed dining area

3. Six-bed house in Malta, £5.52m

If you'd prefer an overseas home and have deep pockets, among the most unusual properties in Rightmove this year is one on the outskirts of Valletta in Malta.

The Grade II listed building has an imposing wide façade and sea views from the roof terrace.

It has six bedrooms, stables and staff quarters - but needs updating. It is being sold via Homes of Quality estate agents.

Living overseas: The Grade II listed building in Malta has an imposing wide façade

A project: It has six bedrooms, stables and staff quarters - but requires extensive updating

Deep pockets required: The property is currently for sale for €6.5million, the equivalent of £5.52million

Ripe for conversion: There is an outdoor space with a mature garden of almost 10,000 square feet

4. Ten-bed semi-detached house in Devizes, Wiltshire, £3.25m

This Grade II listed home with some solid medieval royal connections is the bulk of a castle in the market town of Devizes, in Wiltshire.

All of the castle is for sale as one property, except the south tower, which is a separate residence.

The castle dates back to 1080, and has various period features that include decorative stone windows, impressive fireplaces, and high ceilings.

These are combined with modern facilities that make it a comfortable family home. It is for sale for £3.25million via estate agents Savills.

The Grade II listed home is most of a castle in the market town of Devizes, in Wiltshire.

The semi-detached property has 10 bedrooms and a lot of period features throughout

Period features include decorative stone windows, impressive fireplaces, and high ceilings

The Wiltshire countryside dream: The property boasts some beautiful landscaped gardens

From Royal household to political prison: Who were the important occupants of Devizes Castle? The original Devizes Castle was built by the Bishop of Salisbury in 1080, but burned down in 1113 and was rebuilt in stone by allies of King Henry I. It was claimed by King Stephen of Blois when he ascended to the throne in the 1130s and then passed down through subsequent ruling families. The castle was a popular destination to visit for monarchs, but was also used as a prison by both Henry II and Henry III to keep prominent enemies in. Henry III spent some of his youth at the castle when he was left there by father King John under the care of its governor. Edward I also visited the castle when he ventured to the South West and it eventually passed to Henry VIII, who gifted it to first wife Catherine of Aragon, although he reclaimed it after their divorce. It then passed to the Stuarts until it was taken in the English Civil War and destroyed in 1648. The castle was rebuilt as a private home in 1840, and was later used as a POW camp for Italians during the Second World War.

5. Five-bed house in Skegness, Lincolnshire, £475,000

This converted windmill in Lincolnshire's Skegness dates back to the 1850s.

There are 360 degree views from its dome and it was used as a bed and breakfast for many years.

With a south-facing garden, a workshop and conservatory, the property is for sale via Hunters estate agents for £475,000.

This converted windmill in Skegness dates back to the 1850s and has converted and extended to make a modern family home

A clear view: The viewing tower has plastic windows that can be tilted and turned for cleaning

There are 360 degree views of the surrounding countryside from the windmill's dome