Megan Gale has revealed that she missed her partner Shaun Hampson so much while he was filming the latest season of Survivor Australia, she sought help.

The 44-year-old spoke to Janine Allis in a video for The Mindful Life website, and described feeling a sense of 'grief' over Shaun's eight week absence.

'I found that, in a lot of ways, I can be mindful and very mentally resilient. But I was surprised at how vulnerable I was.

'I called the show's psychologists': Megan Gale (pictured) revealed in a video for The Mindful Life website that she missed partner Shaun Hampson so much during the eight weeks he was away filming Australian Survivor that she sought professional help

'To the point where I called one of the show's psychologists as soon as I realised there was someone to talk to,' she said.

The model added that she struggled to 'fill the void' of his absence for herself and for their children.

She also faced the difficulty of launching her new business, baby skincare brand Mindful Life, while Shaun was away.

Issues: 'I found that, in a lot of ways, I can be mindful and very mentally resilient. But I was surprised at how vulnerable I was. 'To the point where I called one of the show's psychologists as soon as I realised there was someone to talk to,' she said

Away: The model added that she described feeling a sense of 'grief' and struggled to 'fill the void' of his absence for herself and for their children. Pictured: Shaun on Survivor

'I think with anything you go through mentally, and you feel a bit challenged, you always feel like you're the only one going through something. And quite often, you're not,' she said.

Megan went on to say that she felt comforted by being able to see a professional and does not feel ashamed of reaching out.

'I felt no shame in reaching out to talk to someone about it. It was a really hard thing for me to get through, with him just being gone,' Megan said in the clip.

Help: Megan went on to say that she felt comforted by being able to see a professional and does not feel ashamed of reaching out

The model said: 'I felt no shame in reaching out to talk to someone about it. It was a really hard thing for me to get through, with him just being gone'

The mother-of-two previously revealed how their family reconnected when Shaun returned from his stint filming the show in Fiji.

Megan said the family-of-four went on a mini trip, heading to the picturesque Victorian town of Daylesford.

Taking to Instagram, Megan shared a number of intimate family photographs.

'When the big fella got back from Survivor we all got the hell outta Dodge (aka Melbourne) so we could spend some much needed family time together,' she wrote.

Away: The mother-of-two previously revealed their family reconnected when Shaun returned by going on a mini trip, to the Victorian town of Daylesford. They took their two children, River, five, and Rosie, one (pictured)

She explained that filming meant they hadn't been together for eight weeks - the longest period they had ever been separated.

'The longest we had been apart prior to that was eight days so you can imagine how much we missed each other,' she added.

Megan and Shaun began dating in 2011, and got engaged in July 2017. They have two children, River, five, and Rosie, one.