The election saw promises of more help for working parents, but critics say the problems with the existing 30 hours free childcare system cannot be ignored.

Back in 2015 David Cameron claimed that the Childcare Bill would double the 'free' childcare available to working parents of three and four-year-olds to 30 hours a week and help up to 600,000 families to the tune of about £5,000 a year.

Fast forward to the launch of 30 hours in September 2017 and the government had revised this figure down to 390,000 families who were eligible for the scheme.

Then, when quizzed on the policy in February 2019, education minister Nadhim Zahawi shifted the goalposts saying that so far over 340,000 'children' had benefited from the 30 hours scheme.

What's going wrong? Experts say the 30 hours scheme has failed to reach thousands of eligible families because nurseries and childminders are getting inadequate funding from the local authorities, which also offer a universal 15 hours, and are allocated funding by Government.

An estimated 600,000 families were meant to benefit from the 30 free hours childcare scheme but thousands are still losing out and over 500 childcare providers a month are shutting shop as they can't manage financially

It has resulted, according to Royal London, in nurseries and childminders facing shortfalls of an average of £2,166 per year per child if they take part in the 30 hours scheme.

With such shortfalls to contend with, it's no surprise that childcare providers are closing their doors at alarming rates.

Figures released by Ofsted, following a parliamentary question, show that between April and August 2018, an average of 577 early years settings closed a month – including 196 nurseries and pre-schools and 381 childminders (see below).

From September 2018 to December 2018 the average dropped slightly to 554, including 164 nurseries and pre-schools and 390 childminders.

This year's figures were not much better. Between January and March 2019 an average of 580 providers closed each month – including 179 pre-schools and nurseries and 401 childminders.

An answer from Ofsted to a parliamentary question highlights the sheer rate of closures among early year settings, which some say is due to the lack of adequate funding

Neil Leitch, chief executive of the Early Years Alliance, a registered educational charity, said: 'We have long warned that with inadequate funding, many early years providers would be forced to close their doors and these figures sadly confirm that this is exactly what has been happening.

Is 30 hours really free? Rebecca O'Connor, of Royal London believes government should stop referring to the 30 hours as 'free'. She says: 'It isn't free, it's part-funded. This makes it cheaper, but not free. 'It's not fair on parents to call it 'free' as it sets an expectation for those with younger children that once their child reaches the age of three they will have nothing to pay, whereas in actual fact it reduces costs by about 40 per cent. She says that many parents do not find out that the care for their three-year-old is not actually free until they receive an unexpected bill from the nursery. 'By this point, they have already accepted a job or increased working hours and calculated that they can afford to work. Finding out they still have to pay could change everything for this family's finances overnight.'

'To lose well over 500 nurseries, pre-schools and childminders every month is simply not sustainable.

'If more isn't done to ensure that the sector is adequately funded as a matter of priority, we are going to have a genuine childcare crisis on our hands in this country before too long.'

Meanwhile, parents complain that 30 hours free childcare doesn't cut costs by as much as they would think.

According to Royal London the average monthly cost of a full-time nursery place before funded hours kicks in is £1,000 in England alone.

Even after receiving 30 funded hours, two full-time working parents requiring 50 hours of childcare per week would pay about £400 a month.

Becky O'Connor, personal finance specialist at Royal London adds: 'By underfunding this policy the government could ironically end up reducing access to affordable childcare for all parents.'

More government funding

When asked for a response on families not getting help promised, a Department for Education spokesperson pointed out that the estimate had been revised down to 390,000 children eligible for 30 hours and three in four of these were taking up the entitlement for January 2018.

It added that in summer 2019 there were 378,774 children in a 30 hours place. This, they said, represented an 11 per cent increase from summer 2018 when 339, 974 were in a 30 hours place.

Neil Leitch, of the Early Years Alliance, says government needs to address the historic underfunding in the childcare sector

The spokesperson added: 'In June 2019, the Department estimated that 600,000 children had benefited from 30 hours at some point in the first two years of delivery.

'This includes children who were in a 30 hours place in both the first and second year of delivery.

'The total number of children benefiting in each term increased in the second year of delivery relative to the first year.'

But there was no explanation given as to why thousands of families eligible for the scheme were still losing out.

The department refused to comment on whether there were any technical difficulties experienced by families creating accounts or getting codes.

Royal London's O'Connor, points out: 'Allowing for the likelihood that some families have more than one child who is eligible because they either have twins or children who are close together in age, the Government’s own figures suggest that the policy is failing to help around 300,000 families it had originally claimed would benefit.

'Even taking the Government’s drastically reduced estimate at the launch of the scheme of 390,000 families set to benefit, around 50,000 families had not accessed the additional support in the first full year of the scheme.'

The DfE did however add that the government would be investing more money into the scheme. 'We want every child to have the best start in life, which is why we recently announced an extra £66 million for the government's free hours offers for 2020-21.

'In total we are now planning to spend more than £3.6 billion in 2020-21 to support these offers.'

Am I eligible for 30 hours and how does it work? You will be eligible to claim 30 hours free childcare per week in the term after your child turns three. It works out to 1,1,40 hours of government funded childcare per year. Parents can choose to use some or all of the hours after reaching an agreement with the provider. Each parent must earn, on average, at least the National Minimum Wage or Living Wage for 16 hours a week and earn less than £100,000 a year. Any early years Ofsted approved or registered providers, such as childminders, day nurseries, playgroups and pre-schools can register with the local authority to offer this entitlement. One problem is that childcare providers can opt out of this scheme. They are also allowed to limit the number of 30 hours places. Eligibility also depends on other criteria such as your nationality. You can't apply for 30 hours if you're from outside the EEA and your UK residence card says you are not able to access public funds. Your partner can apply if they're from the UK or EEA or outside the EEA and UK and their residence card says they can access public funds. Applying for 30 hours can be done through the HMRC's Childcare Choices website through the helpline on 0300 123 4097. If you qualify, you will get an 11 digit code that you will need to give your childcare provider along with your NI number and child's birth certificate. Sources: Early Years Alliance, Childcare Choices, gov.uk, Pacey.org.uk

Childcare providers don't get enough

The main criticism of the 30 hours free childcare system has been that although it promised the help, it hasn't allocated enough money to deliver it.

Royal London's estimated £2,166 annual shortfall per child for those taking nurseries and childminders equates them to losing £180.50 per child on a monthly basis.

While the £66million extra investment for the early years childcare sector may sound like an impressive number, the Early Years Alliance points out that it means a mere 8p per hour more for two-year-old places and up to 8p more per hour for three and four-year old places.

Leitch explains: 'While the Government might argue that any increase in early years funding is better than nothing, the fact is that for many nurseries, pre-schools and childminders across the country, the impact of these new funding rates will be negligible.

Rebecca O'Connor, personal finance specialist at Royal London, believes that the government should stop referring to the 30 hours scheme as 'free' as it's misleading

'These providers are facing huge increases in business costs every year: rises in the national living and minimum wages, mortgages and rents, business rates, utilities costs – the list goes on and on.

'And yet, many have seen little to no increase in funding over recent years, and so an increase of just a few pennies is going to do little to help those already struggling to remain sustainable in the long term.

'Worst still is the news that those areas that have seen funding fall over recent years will now see their rates frozen rather than increase.

'For providers in these areas already fighting for survival, this could well be the final straw.

'Childcare providers play an absolutely vital role in caring for and educating children at the most important stage of their development – and yet so many are paid a pittance by government for doing so.

'It is insulting, it is demeaning and it cannot continue.

'It's crucial, therefore, that whoever forms the next government addresses the historic underfunding in the sector and ensures that the early years providers is properly funded, both now and in the future.'

The 30 hours free childcare can be applied for when your child turns three. You can apply outside of these dates but may not get your code in time for the required term if you do

Election promises

Childcare funding is one area where politicians tried to gain extra 'points' during the election campaign.

Labour promised to extend the 30 hours scheme to parents of two-year-olds with no means testing.

The Liberal Democrats, meanwhile, announced plans for free childcare of 35 hours a week, 48 weeks of the year for children aged nine months to age four, where parents are working.

They say that the average cost of 25 hours nursery care for a child equates to more than £6,500 a year which excludes parents from work due to the burden of childcare costs.

The Conservatives pledgde to establish a new £1billion fund to help create more high quality, affordable childcare including before and after school and during school holidays.