Here's your look at highlights from the weekly AP photo report, a gallery featuring a mix of front-page photography, the odd image you might have missed and lasting moments our editors think you should see.

This week's gallery includes a train departing for the "North Pole" from Portland, Maine; President Donald Trump in Michigan and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi in Washington on the day of the impeachment vote; and a long exposure photo of a space capsule test from Cape Canaveral, Fla.

___

This gallery contains photos from the week of Dec. 14-20, 2019.

See the latest AP photo galleries: https://apimagesblog.com

___

Steam billows from a locomotive as The Polar Express departs for the "North Pole" under the watch of conductor Jerry Angier, Friday, Dec. 20, 2019, in Portland, Maine. The annual holiday journey is staffed mostly by volunteers and is the largest annual fundraiser for the Maine Narrow Gauge Railroad Museum. (AP Photo/Robert F. Bukaty)

Follow AP photographers on Twitter: http://twitter.com/AP/lists/ap-photographers

Follow AP Images on Twitter: http://twitter.com/AP_Images

Visit AP Images online: http://www.apimages.comhttp://www.apimages.com/

___

This gallery was produced by Patrick Sison in New York.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., holds the gavel as House members vote on article II of impeachment against President Donald Trump, Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019, on Capitol Hill in Washington. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky)

President Donald Trump arrives at W.K. Kellogg Airport to attend a campaign rally, Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019, in Battle Creek, Mich., on the same day the House of Representatives voted to impeach him. (AP Photo/ Evan Vucci)

Bolivia's former President Evo Morales leaves after giving a news conference in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. Morales resigned on Nov. 10 after a wave of protests alleging fraud in elections that would have given him a fourth term in office. Now living in Argentina, Morales says his removal was a coup d' etat following the loss of support by police and military. (AP Photo/Natacha Pisarenko)

A Thai officer closes the window of cage where Cola, a 10-year-old female orangutan, waits to be sent back to Indonesia at Suvarnabhumi Airport in Bangkok, Thailand, on Friday, Dec. 20, 2019. Wildlife authorities in Thailand repatriated two orangutans, Cola and 7-year-old Giant, to their native habitats in Indonesia in a collaborative effort to combat the illicit wildlife trade. Cola was born in a breeding center from two smuggled orangutans which were sent back to Indonesia several years ago, according to the Department of National Park, Wildlife and Plant Conservation. (AP Photo/Sakchai Lalit)

People gather for a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act after Friday prayers outside the Jama Masjid in New Delhi, India, Friday, Dec. 20, 2019. Police banned public gatherings in parts of the Indian capital and other cities for a third day Friday and cut internet services to counter growing protests against a new law that critics say marginalizes Muslims. (AP Photo/Altaf Qadri)

A protester holds up a flare during a demonstration in Lyon, central France, Tuesday, Dec. 17, 2019. Workers at the Eiffel Tower, teachers, doctors, lawyers and people from across the French workforce walked off the job Tuesday to resist a higher retirement age, or to preserve a welfare system they fear their business-friendly president wants to dismantle. (AP Photo/Laurent Cipriani)

People write Christmas cards for detained and jailed protesters during a rally in Hong Kong, Monday, Dec. 16, 2019. China's premier said Monday that turmoil over amendments to extradition legislation has damaged Hong Kong society on all fronts. (AP Photo/Mark Schiefelbein)

Prime Minister Boris Johnson, foreground, and Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn arrive for the State Opening of Parliament at the Houses of Parliament in London, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. Britain's Queen Elizabeth II formally opened a new session of Parliament on Thursday, with a speech giving the first concrete details of what Johnson plans to do with his commanding House of Commons majority. (Hannah McKay/Pool via AP)

In this long exposure photo, the United Launch Alliance Atlas V rocket carrying the Boeing Starliner crew capsule lifts off on an orbital flight test to the International Space Station from Space Launch Complex 41 at Cape Canaveral Air Force station, Friday, Dec. 20, 2019, in Cape Canaveral, Fla. Boeing's new capsule ended up in the wrong orbit after lifting off on its first test flight Friday, a blow to the company's effort to launch astronauts for NASA next year. (AP Photo/Terry Renna)

A man walks through the snow-covered surface of a work site in Beijing on Monday, Dec. 16, 2019. (AP Photo/Ng Han Guan)