A total smoking ban will be enforced across all hospital grounds by April next year in a bid to make NHS sites smokefree.

The new guidelines, which follow a survey that was carried out as part of Public Health England's (PHE) Smokefree NHS campaign, will see all trusts across the country prohibit anyone from smoking on site.

The rule however will 'not apply at this stage' to those using e-cigarettes, according to documents seen by Health Service Journal.

The total smoking ban, which follows a survey that was carried out as part of Public Health England's (PHE) Smokefree NHS campaign, forms a drive to make all NHS sites smokefree. (Stock image)

Under the new ban, which was put forward in the NHS standard contract 2020-21, patients and visitors at hospital will have to leave the premise, including car parks, if they wish to smoke.

Earlier this year a survey conducted by the PHE, which formed a drive to encourage more smokers to quit, found that 69 per cent of NHS acute trusts had completely banned smoking on their grounds but 31 per cent were yet to enforce a total ban.

Research carried out by Action on Smoking and Health, a public health charity working to eliminate the harm caused by tobacco, also suggested that trusts that host mental health trusts work with them to ensure smokefree policies are consistently implemented across all NHS premises.

Earlier this year Public Health Minister Seema Kennedy said: 'No one should have to walk past a cloud of smoke in order to enter or leave their local hospital – we must lead by example, and I am determined to see a smoke-free NHS by 2020.

'Smoking is still one of the biggest causes of death in this country, and through our NHS Long Term Plan, every smoker admitted to hospital will now be offered targeted NHS support to quit.

A survey recently found that 69 per cent of NHS acute trusts had completely banned smoking on their grounds but 31 per cent had yet to do so. (Stock image)

'I am encouraged by this new survey, which shows great strides have already been made towards a smokefree NHS – I strongly urge all trusts to follow suit.'

In July, the government pledged to eradicate smoking in England by 2030 in an effort to reduce the number of preventable illnesses.

The green paper, presented by health minister Matt Hancock, proposed a number of ways to help tackle smoking in the country including ensuring any smoker admitted to hospital is offered help to quit and encouraging more physical activity.