She's the gorgeous Married At First Sight star whose social media endorsements can cause a product to sell out in seconds.

And Martha Kalifatidis took to Instagram on Saturday to share her night skincare routine, using products worth more than $170.

The 31-year-old shared a promotional video for the beauty brand Nip+Fab, which she is an official ambassador of.

Glowing: Martha Kalifatidis took to Instagram on Saturday to share her night skincare routine, using products from Nip+Fab

She had just returned from having a Friday night dinner and had a full-face of makeup on when she started the video.

Martha was clearly a proponent of the trendy 'double cleanse' technique, using multiple products to clean her skin.

She first went in with an oil cleanser that wasn't from the Nip+Fab range, before recommending the brand's $34.99 Glycolic Fix Night Pads to clean off the excess makeup that was caught in her hairline.

Squeaky clean: Martha was clearly a proponent of the trendy 'double cleanse' technique, using multiple products to clean her skin

'I like to go into the hairline because you never get this clean properly. I can tell you now because I’m anal. The hairline is the danger zone that everyone misses and also around the ears where the bronzer goes,' she said into the camera.

'I feel like the acid helps to break down the oil more than just a normal wipe. Maybe that’s just my theory.'

Since Martha would also be using retinol products later on in the routine, she washed the glycolic acid residue off her face, as she believes that the two products should not be used together.

Luxurious: As she had a friend's birthday party to go to the next day, she treated herself to a Vitamin C Fix Face Mask, with each sheet costing $12

She then went on to use a $19.99 Vitamin C cleanser, before carefully patting her skin dry with a fresh towel.

As she had a friend's birthday party to go to the next day, she treated herself to a Vitamin C Fix Face Mask, with each sheet costing $12.

The crafty reality star also let fans know to squeeze the excess serum out from the mask's packaging.

Tricks of the trade: The crafty reality star also let fans know to squeeze the excess serum out from the mask's packaging

'Put it on your neck. That’s the good stuff, you know? The neck is part of the face, guys. If I wasn’t wearing a top, I'd probably do my whole chest too,' she said.

After she finished using the sheet mask, Martha went in with an eye cream, but she didn't use a Nip+Fab product despite the brand having multiple eye products for sale.

Martha moved on to using two Nip+Fab retinol products, which is primarily used for 'anti-aging' and 'skin renewal'.

'It's really gentle and nice': Martha moved on to using two retinol products, which is primarily used for 'anti-aging' and 'skin renewal'.

'Retinol can be really abrasive and harsh, [but] this one has aloe vera in it. So its really gentle and nice. It has a really light little smell of lavender, which I love,' she told her 295,000 followers.

The glass-skinned bombshell started with a $49.99 Retinol Fix Booster Extreme concentrate before patting a $49.99 Retinol Fix Overnight Cream into her skin.

Although she had finished her skincare routine, Martha hilariously added a clip of her picking her nose, telling a fan who pointed it out that 'always gotta clean the nostrils'.