Acting prime minister Michael McCormack has been slammed for running Australia from his hometown of Wagga Wagga while other parts of the nation are ablaze.

The deputy prime minister filled Scott Morrison's role while the PM jetted off on holiday to Hawaii, from where is expected to return on Saturday night.

In a press conference in Wagga Wagga on Saturday, Mr McCormack admitted that more needed to be done to tackle climate change.

But he also blamed bushfires and arsonists and even 'self-combusting piles of manure'.

Acting prime minister Michael McCormack has told a press conference 'self-combusting piles of manure' are much to blame for this year's bushfires

Mr McCormack was criticised for placing much of the blame for this year's disastrous bushfire season on 'self-combusting piles of manure' (pictured is the Gospers Mountain fire raging in Bilpin north-west of Sydney on Saturday)

'Climate change is not the only factor that has caused these fires,' he told a press conference in his Riverina electorate.

'There has been dry lightning strikes, there has been self-combusting piles of manure, there has been a lot of arsonists out there causing fire.'

The deputy leader admitted he agreed 'entirely' further action was needed when pressed by the media.

He claimed though there had been 'a lot of hysteria about climate change' in the context of bushfires.

'We will have these discussions - the important thing is we put the fires out. The important thing is we wrap our arms around people who've lost loved ones,' he said.

'Michael McCormack has blamed the fires on exploding horse s***. Can you think of something dumber,' one social media user wrote.

Mr McCormack was criticised by one social media user for basing himself at Wagga Wagga as bushfires burn elsewhere in the state

'McCormack is acting PM from a distance in Wagga Wagga. Phone calls and a brief appearance at HQ is not seeing firefighters at the base camps,' another said.

His comments came as six emergency bushfires burned across New South Wales on Saturday evening.

Two are in place for the Wollemi National Park and Palmers Oaky to the west, as well as the Green Wattle Creek blaze south-west of Sydney and three more south of Wollongong.

The acting prime minister was also criticised for defending Mr Morrison taking his controversial holiday to Hawaii

'Michael McCormack has blamed the fires on exploding horse s**t. Can you think of something dumber,' one social media user wrote

One fire is burning north of Wagga Wagga, but is at advice level and under control.

The acting prime minister was also criticised for defending Mr Morrison taking his controversial holiday to Hawaii as bushfires destroy homes and take lives in his own country.

'No one could have envisaged what has transpired this week - everyone is entitled to a holiday,' he said.

'Now we've got McCormack from Wagga Wagga defending Morrison's abandonment of the country when it has been downright condemned,' one Twitter user responded.

Who is Michael McCormack? If you don't know, you're certainly not alone. Less than one in three people recognise the acting prime minister, The Australia Institute has found. Mr McCormack has long struggled to build his personal profile after taking over the Nationals leadership from Barnaby Joyce. Mr Joyce, who is now a humble backbencher, is the third most recognisable politician in the country. Unsurprisingly, Scott Morrison is the most widely known politician. More than four in five people have heard of the prime minister. Credit: AAP

'Now he's back onto horse manure exploding.'

'McCormack is dangerously inept,' another added.

NSW fire officials released several stark emergency warnings on Saturday afternoon, saying it is too late to escape and residents should 'seek shelter'.

The Currowan and Tianjara fires in the Shoalhaven were so powerful that they caused fire-generated thunderstorms which happen when rising, turbulent air draws in cooler air and causes lightning, high winds and sometimes rain - but not directly over the blazes.

Two people were declared dead after a night of raging bushfires in South Australia, and hundreds of homes are on the brink of destruction.