Love Island Australia's Phoebe Thompson is not one to shy away from flaunting her sensational physique.

And on Saturday, the reality TV beauty took to Instagram to show off her curvaceous figure in a tiny string bikini.

The credit analyst, 28, shared several posts of herself enjoying the sun and sea at Sydney's Bondi Beach, wearing a white two piece.

Busting out! Love Island Australia star Phoebe Thompson, 28, struggled to contain her ample assets in a tiny bikini top in a racy Instagram post she shared on Saturday

She modelled in front of a sandstone cliff and wrote in the caption: 'Jamaican with a touch of German and a sprinkle of English.'

In another photo, the stunner ran her hands through her luscious brunette locks and commented that her ample assets are an 'F... sometimes a G' cup in size.

She completed the racy series of photos with a shot of herself at the famed Bondi Icebergs Club in the skimpy two piece.

Bikini babe: She modelled her look along a sandstone cliff and wrote in the caption: 'Jamaican with a touch of German and a sprinkle of English'

Racy: In another photo the stunner ran her hands through her luscious brunette locks and commented on her ample assets in the caption, saying: 'F.... sometimes a G'

The Love Island star teamed her look with 90s inspired accessorises - a black bucket hat and a pair of oval sunglasses, along with the caption: 'Spam..... last one I swear.'

Phoebe's raunchy Instagram post comes after her Love Island co-star Cassie Lansdell revealed last month that she was keen to revive the pair's short-lived romance.

The bombshells made Love Island Australia history by becoming the first same-sex couple on the show, only to split after just one day.

Summer stunner: The bombshell accessorised with a black hat and matching sunglasses

'Hopefully Phoebe and me can meet up and see where it goes,' Cassie told 9Entertainment.

'If something came from that and there was still a spark, then yeah I definitely would explore it.'

Phoebe entered the Love Island villa on Day 4 but was dumped from the island on Day 12.