Emmy-nominated writer Breckin Meyer paid tribute to his 'angelic' castmate in Clueless and King of the Hill - Brittany Murphy - on the 10th anniversary of her untimely death at age 32.

'10 years ago this magical, fantabulous angel left us WAY too early. She was so crazy talented and the sweetest lil fairy ya ever could meet,' the 45-year-old actor wrote on Friday.

'Full Disclosure: Travis kisses Tai on the head because Brit and I knew each other for years before Clueless and she was always like a lil sister to me. Missing Brit lots today.'

RIP: Emmy-nominated writer Breckin Meyer (L) paid tribute to his 'angelic' castmate in Clueless and King of the Hill - Brittany Murphy (R) - on the 10th anniversary of her untimely death at age 32 (pictured in 2000)

The 45-year-old actor wrote on Friday: '10 years ago this magical, fantabulous angel left us WAY too early. She was so crazy talented and the sweetest lil fairy ya ever could meet'

Cruel Intentions alum Ryan Phillippe commented on Breckin's Instagram post with a prayer hands emoji, and The Craft alum Robin Tunney wrote: 'She was so talented and always kind. What a loss.'

Kathy Najimy worked with Murphy in King of the Hill and the 1998 film Zack and Reba, and she tweeted that she 'misses her beyond words.'

'Breckin this is beautiful. Thank You. Of the many people that I've lost in my life losing #BrittanyMurphy still hurts the most daily,' the 62-year-old Hocus Pocus alum wrote.

'[Worked and played with her] for 13 [years], every week...then [played] her mom in a film. Too soon too young [and for] the painfully wrong reasons. Miss her beyond words!'

Cruel Intentions alum Ryan Phillippe commented on Breckin's Instagram post with a prayer hands emoji, and The Craft alum Robin Tunney wrote: 'She was so talented and always kind. What a loss'

'Still hurts': Kathy Najimy worked with Murphy in King of the Hill and the 1998 film Zack and Reba, and she tweeted that she 'misses her beyond words'

'I met her once': SAG Award nominee Craig Bierko highlighted the Atlanta-born actress' character recalling 'a warmth, immediacy and lack of self importance rare enough to represent a standard even after all these years'

SAG Award nominee Craig Bierko highlighted the Atlanta-born actress' character recalling 'a warmth, immediacy and lack of self importance rare enough to represent a standard even after all these years.'

Former E! News reporter Maria Menounos fondly remembered running into Brittany at red carpet events.

'Just seeing it's been ten years since we lost the beautiful and talented #BrittanyMurphy,' the 41-year-old Daytime Emmy-winning producer tweeted.

'Loved interviewing her.'

Memories: Former E! News reporter Maria Menounos fondly remembered running into Brittany at red carpet events (pictured in 2006)

The 41-year-old Daytime Emmy-winning producer tweeted: 'Just seeing it's been ten years since we lost the beautiful and talented #BrittanyMurphy...Loved interviewing her'

'Family, love, and Liza Minnelli': Three-time Emmy-winning writer David Wild 'had the pleasure of writing for' Murphy, whom he called 'a sweet & open-hearted person'

Three-time Emmy-winning writer David Wild 'had the pleasure of writing for' Murphy, whom he called 'a sweet & open-hearted person.'

Fandom co-founder Jamie Iovine lamented how great the ex-girlfriend of Ashton Kutcher would have been at voicing King of the Hill's Luanne in a big-screen spin-off.

GLAAD award-winning filmmaker River Gallo placed roses on Brittany's grave on Friday at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Hollywood Hills.

What could have been? Fandom co-founder Jamie Iovine lamented how great the ex-girlfriend of Ashton Kutcher would have been at voicing King of the Hill's Luanne in a big-screen spin-off

Paid respects: GLAAD award-winning filmmaker River Gallo placed roses on Brittany's grave on Friday at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Hollywood Hills

And Las Vegas publicist Tricia McCrone shared two vintage snaps of herself hanging with Murphy captioned: 'I miss you BAM! #10yrstoday #BrittanyMurphy'

And Las Vegas publicist Tricia McCrone shared two vintage snaps of herself hanging with Murphy captioned: 'I miss you BAM! #10yrstoday #BrittanyMurphy.'

Aside from the Fox animated sitcom and Clueless, Brittany took on serious roles in dramas like Girl Interrupted, Riding in Cars with Boys, Spun, 8 Mile, Don't Say a Word, and Sin City.

Murphy (born Bertolotti) also easily managed starring in lighter fare such as Uptown Girls, Drop Dead Gorgeous, Just Married, and Happy Feet.

Chicken dinner: Aside from the Fox animated sitcom and Clueless, Brittany took on serious roles in dramas like Girl Interrupted (pictured), Riding in Cars with Boys, Spun, 8 Mile, Don't Say a Word, and Sin City

Alongside Dakota Fanning (R): Murphy (born Bertolotti) also easily managed starring in lighter fare such as Uptown Girls (pictured), Drop Dead Gorgeous, Just Married, and Happy Feet

Foul play? Fans still speculate over the Broadway thespian's death from pneumonia with secondary factors of iron-deficiency anemia and multiple prescription drug intoxication (pictured in 2009)

Fans still speculate over the Broadway thespian's death from pneumonia with secondary factors of iron-deficiency anemia and multiple prescription drug intoxication.

Five months later, Brittany's widower Simon Monjack was found dead of acute pneumonia and severe anemia at the same Hollywood Hills residence.

In both cases, Murphy's mother Sharon, who was living with the couple, was said to be present.