Iggy Azalea and Playboi Carti are no longer an item.

On Friday evening, the 29-year-old Fancy singer took to her Instagram during an impulse decision to let fans know that she is single.

Shortly after, she followed up with another post apologizing for telling her fans that she and the rapper - whose real name is Jordan Terrell Carter - were no longer dating.

She's on the market! On Friday evening, Iggy Azalea took to her Instagram to share that she is in fact single after dating her boyfriend Playboi Carti for over a year

'I need to make an apology,' she started out in the Instagram Story post.

'It's not my character to put out whatever business I go through in my private life on the internet for the world to comment on. I felt very upset and I made an impulse choice that I immediately regretted, but it was too late to undo.'

She continued: 'The truth is that I love Jordan very much, I always will - more than you could ever know. That's all in the world should ever need to hear and I am sorry for making something public that should always remain between him & I no matter what.'

Too soon: Shortly after, she issued an apology for coming out with information about her personal life that is just between her and her partner

The two met back in 2018, and shortly after they confirmed their relationship they took the next step and moved in together.

'Once I started talking to her, I just cut off everybody. It was over with,' the Magnolia rapper revealed during an interview with Fader about his relationship with the star.

'I support everything she does.'

On the go: The two love birds were spotted out in January of this year at the 9SM Fashion Show in Paris as they headed out hand-in-hand

The two typically lived a low-key life after relocating to Atlanta together.

But back in November, tragedy struck shortly after reaching just one year of dating when an intruder entered their home and robbed them.

According to People, the two had about $366,000 worth of jewelry stolen from their rental home at the time.

The singer was home alone in the basement when she heard the footsteps on the second floor and didn't think much of it and assumed it was Jordan.

Surveillance later showed the suspect who entered their home was wearing a mask and gloves and came in through the back door - that she left unlocked for Carti - and left the residence just a few minutes after.

The rapper also insists that the intruder had a gun.

Good times: Iggy and PlayBoi Carti show that they are relationship goals while out at a sporting event earlier this year

Previously, the star was linked to NBA player Nick Young, whom she revealed she broke up with after she caught him cheating on her.

“I broke up with Nick because I found out he had brought other women into our home while I was away and caught them on the security footage,” she wrote in a tweet at the time.