It was one of the highlights of Thursday's Democratic presidential debate on PBS.

While discussing political donations, Senator Elizabeth Warren commented on Mayor Pete Buttigieg‘s recent fundraiser in a private Napa winery. She made the point that, 'Billionaires in wine caves should not pick the next president of the United States.'

The following afternoon, Lynch, a Buttigieg donor, took to Twitter to give her support for the rights of billionaires to make political donations.

Since then Lynch has faced an overwhelming amount of backlash on the social media platform.

It's all politics: Jane Lynch, 59, has faced backlash on social media after accusing Elizabeth Warren of 'class warfare' when she criticized Mayor Pete Buttigieg for holding a private fundraiser with wealthy donors at a Napa winery

'Hello everyone. Billionaires in wine caves have as much right to say who gets to be president as waitresses in diners and plumbers in my bathroom. Class warfare is ugly, @ewarren,' the Glee alum, 59, tweeted on Friday.

'Thanks for listening everyone.'

Followers and internet trolls wasted little time weighing-in on the hot-topic issue that has been source of contention in the political spectrum for many years.

One man replied: 'Warren would not disagree with you,' he began. 'The Problem is -- which is clear when Warren talked about it -- that billionaires in wine caves have "substantially" more say in the process than waitresses and plumbers.'

Her take: The actress and comedian implied that billionaires have the same rights as anyone on who picks the next president

Her candidate: Lynch has been a donor for Mayor Pete Buttigieg's campaign

Another male seemed to share similar sentiments.

'When waitresses & plumbers can buy access to people running for president, then we can discuss how class warfare is unfair to the wealthy.'

A woman kept it short and concise: 'I honestly don't get what part of "don't sell access" they don't understand.'

Another woman replied: 'Really wishing you had chosen not to comment. Love your acting but this garbage take completely misses the point and minimizes the corrupting influence of money in politics.

She ended by adding, 'Class warfare is a constant. And 99% of us are its casualties. THAT'S what's ugly.'

Her strategy: Warren tried to make the point that wealthy donors are having far more influence in the political process than people of lesser financial means, when she accused Buttigieg of taking money from wealthy donors during a private fundraiser

The one-on-one debate on the issue began when Warren tried to make the point that wealthy donors are having far more influence in the political process than people of lesser financial means.

'We made the decision many years ago that rich people in smoke-filled rooms would not pick the next president of the United States,' the Massachusetts Senator, 70, said, which got some cheers from the audience.

'Billionaires in wine caves should not pick the next president of the United States.'

Buttigieg, 37, shot back and defended his right to take donations by stating that he's literally the only candidate on Democratic stage who's not a millionaire or billionaire.

'If I pledge never to be in the company of a progressive democratic donor, I couldn't be up here. Senator your net worth is 100 times mine,' he explained.

He then used an analogy that if Warren were to make the maximum donation by law of $2800 on his campaign website, it would not 'pollute my campaign because it came from a wealthy person.'