Adam Goodes and his wife Natalie Croker welcomed their first child in June.

And the pair looked as loved-up as ever as they enjoyed a swim at Sydney's Bondi Beach on Saturday.

The footy player, 39, gave his wife an affectionate tap on the behind as they headed towards the surf.

That's cheeky! Adam Goodes (right) and his wife Natalie Croker (left) enjoyed a morning swim on Sydney's Bondi Beach on Saturday

Natalie wore a plunging black one-piece swimsuit which showed off her impressive physique just six months after giving birth.

The bathers featured a v-neck design which gave off a glimpse of bust and the key-hole style added a flirty feature.

She emerged from the water with her caramel-blonde hair wet and slicked back off her face.

Hands on: The footy player, 39, gave his wife an affectionate tap on the behind as they headed towards the surf

Heading in: the pair looked as loved-up as ever a the prepared to enjoy a swim

Pretty: Natalie looked amazing as she wore a plunging black one-piece swimsuit

Looking good: She showed off her impressive physique just six months after giving birth

Dramatic: The swimmers featured a v-neck design which gave off a glimpse of bust

Details: The key-hole design of the swimwear added a flirty feature

Water baby: She emerged from the water with her caramel-blonde hair wet and slicked back off her face

Chill: Natalie looked relaxed as she towelled off on the beach

Details: She was wearing a pair of dark sunglasses as she looked out to the ocean

Natalie looked relaxed as she towelled off on the beach, wearing a pair of dark sunglasses as she looked out to the ocean.

Her hunky AFL star husband meanwhile opted for an eye-catching pair of trunks to swim in.

Adam wore black board shorts with a pattern featuring an animal print in a bright gold tone.

Nice pants! Her hunky AFL star husband meanwhile opted for an eye-catching pair of trunks to swim in

Animal instinct: Adam wore black board shorts with a pattern featuring an animal print in a bright gold tone

Side by side: They made an attractive pair as they surveyed the water

Splish splash! The married couple swam side by side in the shallows

Out we go! It was back to the beach after a quick dip in the ocean

Looking good! Adam had his dark hair slicked back off his face, and showed off his toned, athletic physique

He too had his dark hair slicked back off his face, and showed off his toned, athletic physique.

A tattoo featuring a design consisting of three stars, ran up his foot to the front of his leg.

The pair appeared very laid back as they enjoyed the sunny day on Sydney's most famous beach.

All in check! Natalie made sure her swimwear was secure as she stepped out of the water

Cooling off: The couple seemed to have cooled off in the cool waves

back to the beach: Adam and Natalie left the water at the same time

Waterproof: Adam had a khaki colored watch on his wrist

Sydney Swans champion Adam and Natalie announced the birth of their first child in June - a baby girl, named Adelaide.

In an interview earlier this year announcing the pregnancy, Adam said the pair were 'very excited' to be starting a family.

'We are not finding out the sex. It's going to be a surprise,' Adam told The Daily Telegraph in February.

Tatts cool! Adam showed off a tattoo featuring a design consisting of three stars, which ran up his foot to the front of his leg

Rugged up: The pair left the beach, walking along the boardwalk side by side

Accesories: Natalie wrapped herself in a blue and grey towel while Adam chucked on thongs

Carrying on: Natalie carried a pair of Adidas slides and a spotted tote bag

Topical: She also carried what looked like a floral themed shirt with a red background

'The most exciting thing for me is from day one this baby is going to know it's an Aboriginal person and is connected to the longest living culture in the world, which is something I didn't have when I was growing up,' he also told GQ .

'Every opportunity we can we'll be giving him or her an indigenous experience, teaching him or her about what it means to be aboriginal.

'For me as a father, I feel I have a role to play to instil that culture, as well as discipline and having fun.'

New parents: Sydney Swans champion Adam and Natalie announced the birth of their first child in June - a baby girl, named Adelaide

Family time: In an interview earlier this year announcing the pregnancy, Adam said the pair were 'very excited' to be starting a family

Excited: 'The most exciting thing for me is from day one this baby is going to know it's an Aboriginal person and is connected to the longest living culture in the world,' he also told GQ

Adam retired from the AFL in 2015 after playing 372 games - the most ever by an indigenous player.

The pair began dating during Adam's last years in the league before he proposed in 2016.

They married in September that year in a low key ceremony, inviting only 20 guests.