She's part of a Hollywood dynasty that includes her mother Tippi Hedren.

And Melanie Griffith was out with the next generation, her actress daughter Stella Banderas, 23, for a lunch date in West Hollywood on Friday.

Later, the 62-year-old Body Double star and her daughter fit in some last-minute holiday shopping at the luxury boutique Maxfield.

Family act: Melanie Griffith, 62, was out with her daughter Stella Banderas, 23, for a lunch date in West Hollywood on Friday

Melanie rocked an edgy all-black outfit featuring a black blazer and a long sleeve shirt with matching leggings.

She capped off the look with a pair of fierce black combat boots and a slim black handbag.

She wore her long blonde locks up in a messy bun and wore a pair of cat-eye sunglasses.

Back in black: Melanie rocked an edgy all-black outfit featuring a black blazer, matching leggings and fierce combat boots

Stella's look was as light as her mother's was dark. She had on a chic pale pink jumpsuit and white sneakers, and she stayed warm with a thick tan overcoat.

The daughter of Antonio Banderas wore her brunette tresses parted down the middle and cascading over her shoulders.

She's Melanie's youngest child and the half-sister of Alexander Bauer and Dakota Johnson, from Melanie's marriages to Steven Bauer and Don Johnson, respectively.

Study in contrasts: Stella's look was as light as her mother's was dark. She had on a chic pale pink jumpsuit and white sneakers, and she stayed warm with a thick tan overcoat

The Night Moves star began her relationship with Stella's father Antonia Banderas in 1996, during filming of their movie Two Much.

The couple tied the knot later that year in London after finalizing their divorces to Don Johnson and Ana Leza.

Melanie would go on to star in her husband's 1999 directorial debut Crazy In Alabama, which also featured Stella's first on-screen role.

The couple ended their marriage amicably in 2015, making it her fourth divorce. (She married Don Johnson twice.)

Friendly exes: Melanie shares Stella with her ex-husband Antonio Banderas, whom she was married to from 1996–2015; pictured in 2013

Family affair: Her other daughter Dakota Johnson starred in the heartwarming Peanut Butter Falcon this year, while her two-time ex Don Johnson was in the critically praised Knives Out and HBO's hit series Watchmen; pictured in 2016

Melanie has kept busy in recent years, with a recurring role on the rebooted Hawaii Five-0 and small parts in The Pirates Of Somalia and the Oscar-nominated Disaster Artist.

The Something Wild star's family have also been enjoying a booming year.

Her daughter Dakota appeared in the cosmic horror film Wounds earlier in 2019, followed by the heartwarming drama The Peanut Butter Falcon opposite Shia LaBeouf and Bruce Dern.

Her two-time ex Don appeared in the critically acclaimed and financially successful mystery thriller Knives Out, as well as the first season of HBO's hit series Watchmen.

Antonio also received some of the best reviews of his career in Pedro Almodóvar's autumnal Pain And Glory.