South Sudanese-Australian supermodel Adut Akech is using her profile to raise awareness on sustainability in fashion.

The 19-year-old - who fled to Adelaide from a United Nations camp in Kenya as a child - graces the cover of Vogue Australia's January 2020 'Vogue Values' issue.

Dressed in an off-white ruffled frock by Alexander McQueen, the activist tells the publication about finding her voice in the industry.

'I want to use my platform': South Sudanese-Australian supermodel Adut Akech, 19, raises awareness on sustainability in fashion, as she covers Vogue Australia's January 2020 issue

'I want to use my position and my platform to speak about things that are very important that need to be discussed, and things that need to change,' she began.

'Sustainability is definitely something very important that we all need to come together for, and sit down and see what changes we can make.'

'For me, I can talk about it and try to bring awareness to it. I want to use my platform to educate,' Adut continues.

Adut, who was named Model of the Year by the British Fashion Council in December, echoed the same sentiments in an interview with The Daily Telegraph on Saturday.

'I'm happy with the path that I'm going down and being able to have that confidence and ability to deliver what I feel and what I want to say... and not care about what others think or what others are going to say about it,' she said.

'That is all I can really do, speak my truth and what I believe in. I feel like I'm finding my voice more and more, and it is just great.'

Using her voice: 'For me, I can talk about it (sustainability in fashion) and try to bring awareness to it. I want to use my platform to educate,' she tells the publication

For her Vogue Australia cover, Adut stuns in an off-white one-shoulder ruffle frock by Alexander McQueen.

She places both hands behind her back, tilts her head to one side, and beams broadly.

Adut appears to sport minimal makeup, allowing her natural beauty to shine through.

Vogue Australia's January 2020 Vogue Values issue goes on sale December 30.