Max Hawken is 82 and has lived in the modest Lithgow miner's cottage he'll defend from the Gospers Mountain megafire for 56 years.

As smoke from fire-hit Dargan and Bell drew close on Saturday afternoon, Mr Hawken drove wife Janice, 76, to Lithgow Workies Club near which embers were also falling as fire broke safety lines behind the venue.

But he returned to help defend their Vale of Clwydd home.

"I have put the sprinklers ready all around the roof," Mr Hawken said as he showed AAP the plastic hoses attached to a sprinkler that he will manually turn on if the embers reach his street.

"This fire will be one of the worst we have if this town burns.

Mr Hawken said he had defended his cottage several times over the more than half a century he'd lived in it and was ready to again.

He and several others in the Lithgow area had decided to stay put as the western edge of the Gospers Mountain fire - still out of control and more than 450,000 hectares in size - intensified.

Fire continued to burn south of the Bells Line of Road, with an imminent southerly on Saturday expected to make fire behaviour erratic.

The Rural Fire Service confirmed homes had already been damaged or destroyed in the Lithgow area as embers appeared. At least five of them, according to the ABC.

"It turns what was a flank of a fire or a more benign side of the main fire into a fire front that can spread very rapidly in a northerly direction," RFS commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons told reporters of the wind change.

It was expected to reach the Gospers Mountain fire about 6pm.

The evacuation centre at Lithgow Workies Club slowly filled with residents fleeing homes on Saturday.

NSW Families and Community Services' Libby Stansell told AAP the body would assist all evacuees seeking shelter.

Elizabeth Attwood, 56, lives next door to Mr Hawken on Hartley Vale Road and said she was also staying to secure her 100-year-old sandstone cottage.

"RFS has told us to leave now but we are staying. We'll be right," she said.