Sajid Javid originally ordered production of the coins in advance of the original departure date of October 31

New 50p coins have been ordered for the latest Brexit date after the delay to the UK's exit from the EU forced the Royal Mint to destroy the previous batch.

Chancellor Sajid Javid originally ordered production of the commemorative coins in advance of the original departure date of October 31.

The delay meant about a million coins had to be melted down and the metal put aside until a new departure date was confirmed.

A Treasury spokesman said at the time: 'We will still produce a coin to mark our departure from the European Union, and this will enter circulation after we have left.'

The cost of designing and producing the commemorative coins will be met by the Royal Mint out of its own revenues at no cost to the taxpayer.

After a meeting of the Privy Council this week, the Queen issued a proclamation that new 'gold, silver and cupro-nickel coins' will be minted with the updated departure date of January 31.

The coin will feature the date the UK is set to leave the EU as well as the inscription: 'Peace, prosperity and friendship with all nations'.

The coins were originally supposed to have the 29 March 2019 date inscribed on them.

The coin will feature the date the UK is set to leave the EU as well as the inscription: 'Peace, prosperity and friendship with all nations'

The 50p coins were originally supposed to have the 29 March 2019 date inscribed on them (Pictured: an earlier version of the commemorative coin)

Former chancellor Philip Hammond had planned a limited edition of around 10,000 commemorative coins to be sold to collectors for £10 each.

But following the delay of the UK's exit his successor Mr Javid asked officials if the coins could be made en masse in time for October.

According to the Royal Mint website, precious metals, such as 50p coins, are sorted and shredded before being melted down. Metals are then purified and solidified before being turned into new products.