Chris Hemsworth and his wife Elsa Pataky have raised eyebrows after 'a fleet of water trucks' arrived at their $20million mega-mansion.

Speaking to The Sydney Morning Herald about the Hemsworth's water trucks on Saturday, a local macadamia farmer said: 'I wish I had millions of dollars to buy that amount of water, all the demand (from the bushfire crisis and drought) has put the prices through the roof.'

Australia is currently battling through intense drought and harsh water restrictions in much of New South Wales.

Thor blimey! Chris Hemsworth, 36, and Elsa Pataky, 43, have raised eyebrows with locals after 'a fleet of water trucks' arrived at their $20million mega-mansion in Broken Head, near Byron Bay, Australia

Daily Mail Australia has reached out to Chris' representatives for comment in relation to the claims.

However, Chris, 36, and Elsa, 43, have been doing their part to support local firefighters.

The couple, who have been married since 2010, are offering a once in a lifetime opportunity for one fan to train with the fitness buffs.

'I wish I had millions of dollars to buy that amount of water': A farmer estimated that water costs would set the Hollywood power couple back 'millions of dollars', when speaking to The Sydney Morning Herald on Saturday. Pictured: an aerial view of the mega-mansion

Inside Chris Hemsworth's $20million mega-mansion -A huge 50-metre infinity pool worth $400,000 AUD -Indoor Aboriginal mural worth $100,000 AUD -Cinema and games room with two bars -Home gym, massage room and sauna and steam rooms -Five bedrooms with five en-suites and ten toilets -26 surfboard racks

A training session is up for auction on website Make It Rain 2020, with all profits going to NSW RFS Northern Rivers and Far North Coast Brigades. The highest bid is currently at $8,000 (AUD).

Chris and Elsa's new 4.2 hectare estate, purchased five years ago, has been transformed into a luxury property.

Alongside a huge rooftop infinity pool, the abode also boasts five bedrooms, ten bathrooms and a butler's pantry.

For a good cause: The couple, are offering a once in a lifetime opportunity for one fan to train with the fitness buffs, with all profits going to NSW RFS Northern Rivers and Far North Coast Brigades

Spacious: Chris and Elsa's palatial property offers plenty of room for their children - daughter India Rose, seven, and twin sons Tristan and Sasha, five (all pictured)

The home also functions as a retreat too, with a steam room, sauna room and massage room, as well as a gym.

Rounding up the features are seven car spaces, a study, and a massive 6.8m by 4m walk-in-wardrobe for Elsa.

The palatial property offers plenty of room for Chris and Elsa's children - daughter India Rose, seven, and twin sons Tristan and Sasha, five - as well as breathtaking views of the Broken Head Nature Reserve.

Luxury: The 4.2 hectare estate, purchased five years ago, has been transformed into a luxury property

After purchasing the spot in 2014, a development application for the knockdown-rebuild was first lodged with Byron Shire Council in November 2016.

It was then approved in March 2017, with the build finished in November this year.

Formwork and concrete for the property foundations - known on architectural plans as 'Project 657 BHR' - will have set Chris and wife Elsa Pataky back $1.5million to $2million.

Fortunately, Forbes magazine estimated that Chris earned $US64.5million ($91.7million) last year alone.