He was last seen with an IV attached to his arm last month.

And Justin Bieber went under the needle again with another IV injection in his arm done in Beverly Hills, Calif.

The 25-year-old singer-songwriter donned a white t-shirt, grey shorts and a brown trucker hat emblazoned with the smiley-face logo of his fashion brand Drew.

On-the-go: Justin Bieber went under the needle again with another IV injection in his arm done in Beverly Hills, Calif.

His tattoos were visible underneath the short sleeves of his crew-neck T-shirt.

Justin's right forearm was wrapped in a thick green pink bandage that held an IV inserted into his vein.

The tubing was connected to a black bag slung around Justin' shoulder that contained the IV bag.

Stylish: The 25-year-old singer-songwriter donned a white t-shirt, grey shorts and a brown trucker hat emblazoned with the smiley-face logo of his fashion brand Drew

Previously, the Sorry singer has reportedly gotten vitamin drips that are intended to boost energy, cure hangovers and assist with other common maladies.

However, the science behind the IV drips is largely absent, and medical professionals have harshly criticized the practice, popular among celebrities, as a snake oil treatment.

'The whole thing is really nonsense,' Dr. Stanley Goldfarb, professor of medicine at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, told CBS News in 2018.

'It's just catering to people's sense that they're taking their health into their own hands.'

Busy: His tattoos were visible underneath the short sleeves of his crew-neck T-shirt

'It's just catering to people's sense that they're taking their health into their own hands.'

CBS News chief medical correspondent Dr. Jon LaPook was similarly unimpressed back in 2015.

'None of those [health claims] have been FDA approved or validated by any kind of controlled scientific studies,' he said in a story on the phenomenon.

'In fact, there's something here that specifically says, "This product is not intended to diagnose, treat cure or prevent any disease. This service is intended only for healthy adults." Well if you're a healthy adult, why do you need this?'

Although most celebrities who attempt to use these casual IV drips are in perfect health (aside from a possible hangover), they can actually hurt more than they help.

Last year, Kendall Jenner was sent to the hospital after getting a vitamin IV drip.

Her team kept mum about her condition, but unnecessary IVs raise a patient's risk of infection.

The bags may also be pumping excess vitamins that aren't needed and will be quickly evacuated from the body.