Leicester City legend Gerry Taggart believed the club's current crop 'play a better brand of football' than the Foxes' 2016 Premier League title winners.

Brendan Rodgers' side have emerged as the most consistent challengers to runaway leaders Liverpool this season though they must make up a 10-point deficit to replicate their miraculous success three years ago.

But former defender Taggart, who played 142 times for Leicester between 1998 and 2004, has urged them not to give up the chase as they enter the second-half of the season.

Leicester City legend Gerry Taggart has backed the Foxes to push Liverpool all the way

Brendan Rodgers has restored Leicester to something close to their 2016 title standards

Leicester are the closest challengers to runaway Premier League leaders Liverpool at present

'This team play a better brand of football, definitely,' said Taggart. 'It just goes to show you that there is more than one way to win a title.

'In 2016, they played a counter-attacking style of football but now you see Leicester controlling the games, creating lots of chances, their full-backs joining in the play and creating and scoring lots of goals.

'They have seven major goal threats on the pitch at any given day. So it's a totally different style to when they won the league but there are no set rules in football. They just need to win and get the results.'

The coming week could define Leicester's season as they travel to the Etihad Stadium to play third-placed Manchester City on Saturday before hosting Liverpool on Boxing Day.

Jamie Vardy celebrates scoring during Leicester's 9-0 win over Southampton in October

Vardy has scored 16 times in the Premier League this season - putting him top of the charts

LEICESTER FIXTURES Premier League unless stated Saturday Manchester City (A) December 26 Liverpool (H) December 28 West Ham United (A) January 1 Newcastle United (A) January 4 Wigan Athletic (H) FA Cup third round January 8 Aston Villa (H) EFL Cup semi-final, first leg

With Liverpool not in action this weekend because of the FIFA Club World Cup, the gap between them and Leicester could be as small as four points by the end of Boxing Day.

'There is always a chance, there are still 21 games left in the season and who knows what's going to happen between now and then,' added Taggart.

'Yes, Liverpool are a very good side, they haven't been beaten this season and have only drawn one game. They get over the line in games when not at their most convincing.

'Liverpool are in pole position but there is a lot of game time and the busiest time of the season is upon us and anything can happen.'

Jonny Evans (left) and Caglar Soyuncu have formed a formidable partnership at the back

James Maddison celebrates scoring in Leicester's Carabao Cup win over Everton in midweek

Premier League leading scorers 16 - Jamie Vardy 11 - Tammy Abraham, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang 10 - Marcus Rashford 9 - Sadio Mane, Mohamed Salah, Teemu Pukki, Sergio Aguero, Harry Kane, Danny Ings, Raheem Sterling

Former Liverpool manager Rodgers has revitalised Leicester since replacing Claude Puel back in late February and they're reaping the rewards.

Despite losing England international centre-half Harry Maguire to Manchester United over the summer, Leicester have the meanest defence in the Premier League, having conceded just 11 goals in 17 games.

Their defensive partnership of Caglar Soyuncu and Jonny Evans has excelled, while Rodgers has also sharpened their attack with the creativity of James Maddison and Youri Tielemans.

Meanwhile, striker Jamie Vardy has really profited from Rodgers placing faith in him and sits top of the Premier League's Golden Boot race with 16 - five clear of Chelsea's Tammy Abraham.

'Rodgers has realised that Vardy is the focal point of the team,' said Taggart.

Northern Irish defender Taggart played 142 times for Leicester between 1998 and 2004

Taggart fights for the ball with Mark Viduka of Leeds during a match in September 2003

'He'd dropped off under the previous manager but under the previous manager but under Rodgers he has concentrated just on getting goalscoring chances, getting into the box and getting Vardy on the end of them.

'If you were going to analyse the season and where Leicester are sitting in the league at the moment, you'd have to say it's a surprise for everybody. But they have shown they have the staying power. Rodgers has brought a slightly different style of football in from the previous manager and it's been working for him.

'Everyone talks about the attacking style that Leicester have now but there's a really solid defensive base as well - they've conceded the least amount of goals in the Premier League.

'There is a bit of everything with Leicester City at the moment and that is a very positive sign.'

Gerry Taggart was speaking to Avery Dennison, the official names and numbers supplier for the Premier League, at NBC's Premier League Mornings Live event in Miami, Florida. Check out their content from the event here.