Police dashcam video recorded on the night of Jayme Closs's kidnapping shows cops pass by the 13-year-old's abductor after he had just killed both of her parents and snatched the teen from her home just seconds earlier.

The chilling footage is among a trove of new files made public by the Wisconsin Department of Justice on Friday in relation to the famous case.

Recorded in the early hours of October 15, 2018, the dashcam footage shows members of Barron Police Department rushing to the Closs home after they received a frantic 911 call from Jayme's mother, Denise.

In three separate videos, three squad cars pass by a maroon truck, which is coming from the opposite direction and which veers over to the side of the road to let them rush through.

At the time, officers had no idea that the driver of the truck - Jake Thomas Patterson - had just shot and killed Denise Closs and her husband, James.

They were also unaware that the Closs's 13-year-old daughter, Jayme, was stuffed inside the trunk of the vehicle.

Authorities released a trove of documents on Friday related to the abduction and 88-day captivity of Jayme Closs (left) who was 13 when she was abducted by Jake Thomas Patterson, 22, on October 15, 2018 (right)

So close, but yet so far: Police dashcam video recorded on the night of Closs's abduction show officers passing by a maroon truck which had the teen inside. At the time, they had no idea that the vehicle was being driven by Closs's captor, Jake Thomas Patterson

Once officers arrived at the home, they found the dead bodies of Denise and James and soon realized that Jayme had been abducted.

Police bodycam footage, also released by the DOJ on Friday, reveals that officers immediately had suspicions about the maroon truck that they had passed, as it was heading away from the Closs home.

'Do you want to run and download and try to see if you can pull any plates of cars going that way?' one police officer is heard saying in the footage.

'That maroon one that yielded?' another officer replies, referring to Patterson's truck.

'We had one car that was heading out as we were coming': Officers were suspicious of the maroon vehicle because it was heading away from the Closs home - however they were unable to a run a search of the truck's plates

In a separate bodycam clip, another officer also refers to Patterson's vehicle, stating: 'We had one car that was heading out as we were coming'.

'Well, we'll have him on camera,' a second cop replies.

Patterson later told investigators he pulled over for the deputies as they raced to the Closs home and feared they'd discover he had Jayme in his vehicle just a matter of feet away from them.

According to the Washington Post, Patterson was just 20 seconds from the home when deputies zoomed by.

Unfortunately, officers were unable to retrieve the license plate from the maroon vehicle, with Jayme Closs going on to spend 88 days in captivity inside Patterson's isolated cabin in rural Gordon, Wisconsin.

Closs finally managed to escape her abductor and run to safety on January 10 of this year.

Officers were unable to retrieve the license plate from the maroon vehicle, with Jayme Closs (pictured) going on to spend 88 days in captivity inside Patterson's isolated cabin in rural Gordon, Wisconsin

James and Denise Closs (pictured above) were killed by Patterson before he snatched their daughter Jayme from the home. A frantic 911 call was made from Denise's cell phone just four minutes before police arrived

Meanwhile, other new documents released by the DOJ pertaining to the Closs give an insight into Patterson's creepy obsession with abducting a teenager.

The documents reveal that the 22-year-old concocted a plan to kidnap a young girl six to 12 months before he set his sights on Closs.

He revealed to investigators that once he picked her as a target, he attempted to take her on two occasions, but didn't follow through, according to Fox6.

He insinuated he had sexual thoughts about Closs, but did not act on them because he was overridden with guilt over murdering her parents and couldn't 'do anything.'

Questions related to any sexual nature appear to be redacted in the reports.

DailyMail.com obtained this photo of the front door of the home of Jim and Denise Closs, which was shot in by Patterson

In their 88 days together, Patterson said he and Closs talked about everything except how he shot her parents dead in their Barron home.

Patterson said they slept in the same bed, played board games, and he brought her Starbucks on one occasion. He even tried to change her appearance by cutting her hair once but she cried and said she didn't want him to, so he backed down.

The documents revealed that Patterson allowed Closs to write a letter to her aunt on one occasion when he was drunk and felt overcome with guilt. He said he planned to send it, but never did. It was found in his possession when he was arrested.

His transcript with authorities paints Patterson as an impulsive and controlling man, who believed he had complete command over Jayme.

'I just trusted her and that, she wouldn't try to get out,' he said, adding that he never put extra locks on the doors or windows because he thought Jayme would never leave.

"I know that she was just f**king terrified of me," he is quoted as saying.

The 22-year-old ordered Closs not to leave the home. Patterson told police he initially threatened to kill Jayme if she made noise or moved. He said that once they arrived at his cabin, he burned her clothes and dressed her in his clothes, then laid her on the bed.

When he left her alone he'd force her to lay underneath the bed and surrounded it with heavy tubs to keep her put.

He did, however, let Closs outside occasionally for walks with him around the yard, but never off the property.

The Closs family home in Baron, Wisconsin pictured above

Closs was held in Jake Patterson's home (pictured above) for 88 days, only occasionally allowed to leave for walks in the yard escorted by her captor

The inside of Jake Patterson's Gordon, Wisconsin home where he kept Jayme Closs captive for 88 days pictured above

Patterson didn't choose Jayme for any particular reason. Patterson did not personally know Closs but he fixated on her after seeing her get off a school bus one day.

He added that if he didn't choose Closs, he would have chosen another girl.

'If it wasn't Jayme, it would probably be someone else,' Patterson told detectives.

But Patterson was so steadfast in his plan, he said he'd kill anyone who stopped him from getting to the teen.

In that video footage one deputy is heard saying: 'Do you want to run and download and try to see if you can pull any plates of cars going that way?'

Jayme managed to escape on January 10. Pictured above after her escape with her cousin Bailey Lynn Sikora (left) and another relative on January 13, 2019

Jayme Closs was presented on Wednesday, May 15 with the Hometown Hero award by the Wisconsin Assembly

'That maroon one that yielded?' another responds.

The documents also reveal Jayme's reaction to learning her captor was arrested.

A Douglas County Sheriff's deputy said that as they were riding in the squad car she told Jayme she had just learned of Patterson's arrest.

'Jayme showed me a small smile and we continued,' the deputy said.

In May Patterson was convicted of killing Jayme's parents Denise and James Closs and kidnapping her and was sentenced to life in prison without parole.

He's currently serving that sentence in a New Mexico prison.

Jayme released a statement in October saying she feels 'strong every day' and is healing after the traumatic abduction.

'I really want to thank everyone for all the kindness and concern that people all over the country have shown me,' she said to ABC.

Closs is now living with her aunt and godmother, Jennifer Smith.