Twenty-five Jewish House members have called on President Trump to fire Senior Advisor Stephen Miller over his 'documented support for white nationalist and virulently anti-immigrant tropes.'

The representatives added that Miller's support 'is wholly unacceptable and disqualifying for a government employee.'

'As Jewish members of Congress, we are calling on you to immediately relieve White House Senior Advisor Stephen Miller of all government responsibilities and dismiss him from the Administration,' the Friday letter reads.

25 Jewish lawmakers said in a letter to President Donald Trump that Advisor Stephen Miller needed to be fired over his 'documented support for white nationalist and virulently anti-immigrant tropes'

The lawmakers highlighted a recent Southern Poverty Law Center report that published summaries of a plethora of emails Miller sent to former editor of Breibart News, Katie McHugh.

The lawmakers highlighted a recent report that published summaries of a plethora of emails Miller sent to former editor of Breibart News, Katie McHugh (pictured)

The emails appeared to show support for white nationalist groups.

'Miller frequently disseminated the views of multiple hate groups supportive of white supremacy and other vile ideologies throughout 2016,' the lawmakers letter states.

'His distribution of materials fear-mongering about "white genocide" and supporting eugenics-based immigration theories are particularly disturbing given his leadership of your Administration's immigration policies.'

The politicians declared that there should be no people on the President's staff or in government who propagate 'anti-Semitism, xenophobia, racism and white supremacy.'

The group - which includes Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) - also condemned the Trump administration for 'claiming that legitimate criticism of Miller is anti-Semitic simply because Miller is Jewish.'

'Nothing could be further from the truth,' the group asserted.

The group - which includes Reps. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Adam Schiff (D-CA) and Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) - condemned the Trump's administrations tendency to claim 'that legitimate criticism of Miller is anti-Semitic simply because Miller is Jewish'

'Nothing could be further from the truth,' the group asserted. Nadler pictured with Pelosi

Several civil rights groups and other politicians have pressured Trump to release Miller from his duties

They continued: 'Hateful ideology is not just unacceptable, it is un-American, irrespective of the faith, race, or nationality of the individual promoting it.

'Weaponing anti-Semitism is incredibly dangerous - by muddying the waters, we are no longer able to see and fight the real anti-Semites in our midst.'

Concluding their message, the representatives shared that they would not 'accept intolerance or hate anywhere within our government, and especially not in the White House.'

Several civil rights groups and other politicians have called for Miller to be released from his duties as well.