Christmas is said to be one the most expensive times of the year.

So it's not surprising Roxy Jacenko and Jackie O Henderson spared no expense when it came to decorating their Christmas trees.

According to The Sydney Morning Herald, the PR Queen and radio host spent $5000 to have their lavish showpieces designed by styling company, Dancer and Dasher.

How much?! Roxy Jacenko (left) and Jackie O Henderson's (right) have reportedly paid $5000 to have their lavish Christmas trees' installed by a professional stylist

While the exact size of their trees are unknown, a standard 180cm Christmas tree and decoration supply package costs $2,500 while installation starts from $1000, Dancer and Dasher's website states.

Roxy had a full size pastel candy-inspired tree erected in her Vaucluse mansion, with a white tree skirt.

The extravagant piece featured an array of colours, as well as a large pink and white candy cane and ginger bread home.

Christmas wonderland! Roxy had a full size pastel candy-inspired tree erected in her Vaucluse mansion, with a white tree skirt

Spectacular: Roxy also enlisted the help of luxury lighting installation company, Mr + Mrs Hill Lighting, to turn her spacious courtyard into a winter wonderland

The entrepreneur also enlisted the help of luxury lighting installation company, Mr + Mrs Hill Lighting, to turn her spacious courtyard into a winter wonderland.

The space includes a reindeer display, custom-made hedge curtain lights and a huge feature tree wrapped with hundreds of bulbs.

'Still blows my mind a week later. 'Thank you for this magnificent display of lights in my gardens,' she wrote on Instagram, sharing a series of photos.

Winter wonderland: The space includes a custom-made hedge curtain lights and a huge feature tree wrapped with hundreds of bulbs

'Loving our new mermaid tree Christmas tree': Jackie O had a small-but-elaborate blue, silver and purple mermaid-inspired feature installed in her home

Jackie O had a small-but-elaborate blue, silver and purple mermaid-inspired feature installed in her home.

The KIIS host took to Instagram last week to share a photo of her daughter Catalina 'Kitty', eight, with the tree.

'Loving our new mermaid Christmas tree this year. 'Thanks to Alana from Dancer and Dasher for the install. At night it is even more spectacular,' Jackie wrote.