She's made a name for herself as a social media influencer flaunting her enviable figure.

And on Monday, former Married At First Sight star, Martha Kalifatidis, suffered a near nip slip as she plugged a swimwear brand on Instagram.

The Kim Kardashian lookalike laid across the couch, posing seductively in a green neon bikini, which was working overtime to contain her ample assets.

Close call! Former Married At First Sight star Martha Kalifatidis, 31, (pictured) suffered a near nip slip as she posed seductively in a green neon bikini on Monday

'@mbrunelli won't be taking pics of me in 2020,' the 31-year-old jokingly told her 296,000 followers.

Eagle-eyed fans quickly informed Martha of the wardrobe malfunction.

'You can see your nipple, just saying,' one follower told her.

Another said: 'Your wagon wheel is almost popping out.'

Oops! Martha joked her MAFS boyfriend Michael Brunelli (pictured) 'won't be taking pictures of her in 2020', subtly referencing the wardrobe malfunction

On Sunday, Martha and boyfriend Michael Brunelli enjoyed a vegan meal together and now the pair are considering adopting the diet full time.

They shared a green smoothie, before moving onto main meals of deconstructed raw vegan pizza, ordered by Michael, and a salad with dips.

Martha gushed over the meals, saying they 'looked insane'.

Afterwards, she was so impressed, she took to Instagram stories again to wonder aloud if she and Michael should become raw vegans.

Clean eating: On Sunday Martha and boyfriend Michael Brunelli enjoyed a vegan meal together and the pair are now considering adopting the diet full time

Lean and green: They shared a green smoothie, before moving onto main meals of deconstructed raw vegan pizza, ordered by Michael, and a salad with dips

A raw vegan diet involves consuming no animal products, and eating only raw foods that have not been cooked at high temperatures.

However, Michael, who reclined in a banana lounge in the backyard, seemed dubious over the idea.

'There's no way,' he said, shaking his head, before adding, 'Our relationship wouldn't last!'

Smiling, he added: 'Day three, I would be in the McDonald's car park, binge eating Quarter Pounders, nuggets'.

Michael continued, looking exasperated: 'I could go without meat. But why take eggs off me?'