After taking a hiatus from acting during her third pregnancy, Kate Hudson has two new films in post-production.

But now, with the hustle and bustle of the holiday in full effect, the Oscar-nominated actress got to enjoy some down time with partner Danny Fujikawa and their one year-old daughter Rani in Los Angeles on Friday.

And while out on their quick coffee run, Hudson absolutely nailed the boho-chic look that was made famous by some high-profile celebs in the early 2000s.

Family time: Kate Hudson, 40, oozed boho-chic when she stepped out for a coffee run with partner Danny Fujikawa, 33, and their one-year-old daughter Rani in Los Angeles on Friday

The Almost Famous star, 40, oozed the bohemian-hippie style in light blue jeans that flared out from the knees down.

Keeping with theme, she donned a black spaghetti-strap top, round-rim sunglasses and a black Fiddler's cap over her long and straight blonde tresses.

On this day, her fashion choices took a back seat to the attention she showered on her baby girl.

Chivalry: The musician helped his ladylove and daughter get into their vehicle

Stylish: For her boho-chic ensemble, the Oscar-nominated actress wore a fiddler's cap and round-rim sunglasses along with blue flared jeans

While coming out of the coffee shop she cradled Rani in her arms until she reached her car, with the help of Fujikawa, 40.

He kept things casual-cool in faded black pants, a button-down shirt and a baseball cap over his long brown locks.

The couple had known each other about 15 years before they sparked their romance more than two years ago.

Lovebirds: Hudson shared her 'love' for Fujikawa with her 11.3 million Instagram followers on Friday

Hudson has two children, Ryder Russell Robinson, 15, and Bingham Hawn Bellamy, eight, from previous relationships with Black Crows frontman Chris Robinson and Muse star Matt Bellamy, respectively.

All three children, and the family dogs, were showcased in the Hudson-Fujikawa holiday card that they released on social media earlier this week.

They were all decked out in Christmas colors of red, white and green for the photo as they sat or stood in and around a vintage pick-up truck.

Hudson is set to star in two new movies in 2020: the musical film -- Music -- that was directed by Aussie singer-songwriter Sia and the fantasy film -- Mona Lisa And The Blood Moon.