SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - Slowly but surely Steve Kerr is seeing growth in Golden State. Having Dㅇngelo Russell around to take big shots at key times certainly helps.

Russell made a tiebreaking 22-foot jumper with 32.9 seconds remaining, and the struggling Warriors won after blowing a 20-point lead, beating the New Orleans Pelicans 106-102 on Friday night in a matchup of the worst teams in the West.

"That's who he is. He압 built in that way, to close a game, because he압 not afraid to miss," Kerr said. "You can앖 worry about missing. D-Lo압 never worried about that. With Steph (Curry) and Klay (Thompson) out, he압 a guy we have to rely on."

Russell finished with 25 points and seven assists as the Warriors (6-24) snapped a five-game losing streak with their second win over the Pelicans (7-23) this season.

Damion Lee had 20 points and six rebounds for Golden State. Draymond Green added 10 points and eight assists.

Jrue Holiday and Brandon Ingram scored 25 points apiece for New Orleans. Lonzo Ball had 14 points.

New Orleans Pelicans' Derrick Favors, left, shoots over Golden State Warriors' Draymond Green (23) during the first half of an NBA basketball game Friday, Dec. 20, 2019, in San Francisco. (AP Photo/Ben Margot)

The Warriors jumped on the Pelicans early on, but New Orleans rallied to take an 81-78 lead on Holiday압 39-foot buzzer-beater to end the third.

Holiday stayed hot in the fourth quarter and made a 20-foot jumper that put the Pelicans ahead 97-91.

Golden State trailed 98-93 before ripping off seven straight points. After Ingram made a pair of free throws, Russell made the go-ahead jumper just inside the arc.

"That압 our growth," Russell said. "I always say young teams find a way to lose at the end of games. Older teams don앖 do that. Theyre solid the course of the game. That압 where our growth was today. We made that free throw, we made that extra rebound, we got that stop."

New Orleans lost two nights after beating Minnesota on the road to end a 13-game losing streak.

"We didn앖 establish anything until the second quarter so already we (were) behind the eight ball," Pelicans coach Alvin Gentry said. "From the second quarter on we did a good job but obviously D-Lo made some pretty big shots. That압 what he압 supposed to do. We have to find a way to win that game."

TIP-INS

Pelicans: J.J. Redick made four 3-pointers in the third quarter. He finished with 14 points.

Warriors: Lee had 10 points in the first quarter. ... Green picked up his sixth technical foul of the season in the third. ... Injured star Curry made a rare appearance and sat on the bench. The two-time MVP drew a rousing ovation when he was shown on the giant video screen. ... Eric Paschall left in the second quarter with a right knee injury and was being evaluated after the game.

WILLIAMSON ON SLOW ROAD BACK

Zion Williamson continues to make steady progress in his rehabilitation from right knee surgery, although New Orleans coach Alvin Gentry is not yet ready to set a timetable for the No. 1 overall pick in the draft.

"I don앖 know if there압 a one, two, three, four (steps) towards when he gets back out there," Gentry said. "We are going to be overly cautious, I know that. He압 making normal progress in a situation like this. It압 just not going to be anything that we are going to rush."

UP NEXT

Pelicans: Play the Trail Blazers on Monday night at the Moda Center. New Orleans hasn앖 won in Portland since 2010.

Warriors: Host Minnesota on Monday night. The Timberwolves beat Golden State 125-109 in overtime on Nov. 8.

___

More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/tag/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports

New Orleans Pelicans' E'Twaun Moore, left, lays up a shot past Golden State Warriors' Jordan Poole (3) during the first half of an NBA basketball game Friday, Dec. 20, 2019, in San Francisco. (AP Photo/Ben Margot)

New Orleans Pelicans' Lonzo Ball, right, shoots as Golden State Warriors' D'Angelo Russell (0) and Marquese Chriss (32) defend during the first half of an NBA basketball game Friday, Dec. 20, 2019, in San Francisco. (AP Photo/Ben Margot)