NRL star Anthony Minichiello shared a heartwarming birthday tribute to his wife Terry Biviano on Friday, as she celebrated turning 45.

Taking to Instagram, the 39-year-old sports star shared a photo of himself kissing his wife, whom he married in 2012, in front of the Eiffel Tower in Paris along with a sweet message.

'My beauty happy birthday! You deserve everything you wish for!' he captioned the photo.

'You deserve everything you wish for': NRL star Anthony Minichiello shared a sweet tribute to his wife Terry Biviano as she celebrated her 45th birthday on Friday

'You make every occasion beyond special for our family. We love you so so much!!' he wrote.

In the photo, Terry is kicking one leg in the air while falling into her husband's arms as dips and kisses her.

In the background, the Eiffel Tower and a water feature can be seen as the loved-up couple embrace one another.

'We love you so so much!!' The NRL star took to Instagram to share a sweet message, wishing Terry a happy birthday and professing his love for her. Pictured Anthony and Terry in 2018

Family: Anthony's post comes two weeks after the pair hosted an extravagant birthday party for their six-year-old daughter Azura (pictured)

Anthony's post comes two weeks after the pair hosted an extravagant birthday party for their six-year-old daughter Azura.

The shoe designer and NRL star transformed Dunbar House in Watsons Bay, Sydney, into a butterfly-themed party for their little girl.

The couple spared no expense for the celebration as Azura wore a custom crown as well as a $310 dress from brand Tutu du Monde's upcoming Wild Hearts collection, which is yet to hit the shops.

Magical: Anthony and Terry transformed Dunbar House in Watsons Bay into a butterfly-themed party for their little girl Azura

Extravagant: Azura wore a custom crown as well as a $310 dress from brand Tutu du Monde's upcoming Wild Hearts collection, which is yet to hit the shops

Inside the lavish space, Foamworld AU created a huge pair of pink butterfly wings, which were set up in the centre of the room, between two chandeliers.

Over 50 places were set around two long dining tables, that had been immaculately decorated with flowers, butterfly wings and the finest cutlery.

There were also hundreds of pink and white roses from Kindred Floral decorated around the room.