She's the former Big Brother star turned Instagram sensation who welcomed her first child, son Forest, in December last year.

And after working incredibly hard in the gym, Skye Wheatley, 25, proudly flaunted her incredible post-baby body while wearing a tiny G-string on her Instagram on Saturday.

The reality TV beauty was advertising sweat resistant underwear for the brand 'Tweak' on her feed, before slipping them on and posing sultrily in front of the mirror.

Look at that physique! After working incredibly hard in the gym, Skye Wheatley (pictured) proudly flaunted her sensational post-baby body while wearing a tiny G-string on her Instagram

'Slayed it,' she wrote about the underwear, as she smiled to the camera while showing off her tiny waist.

But the blonde beauty's good mood didn't last for long - as soon enough, still sporting her sexy underwear, Skye launched into an epic rant about her boyfriend Lachlan Waugh.

'Men don't know what feelings are,' she exclaimed. 'In my 25 years of living, it's taken me 25 years to realise that men don't think, and they don't care.'

'Women are very thoughtful. We always put into perspective how the other person is feeling.'

Flashing the flesh: Skye then showed off her pert derriere in the sultry shot

Furious: The blonde beauty's good mood didn't last for long - as soon enough, still sporting her sexy underwear, Skye launched into an epic rant about her boyfriend Lachlan Waugh

She then revealed her anger stemmed from her act of kindness earlier in the day, when she allowed Lachlan to lay in bed for a long time and have a sleep in - removing all distractions so he could have a peaceful sleep.

'I tried to make it very comfortable, calm and quiet... but when he tries to give me a sleep in, it's a very, very stressful sleep in. They just don't think,' she continued.

'They just don't think - what can I do? Because they don't care.'

Sweet: Skye had filmed her beau earlier in the day, after making the surroundings calm so he could 'sleep in' without being disturbed

Her man: 'My point is, men are not women. Men will never be like women. They will never try to be like women,' she said. The pair are pictured together

'Women think about every corner, and every nook and cranny on how they can service their man.'

She concluded: 'My point is, men are not women. Men will never be like women. They will never try to be like women.

'If you find a man who is like a woman - that's one in a million.'

'They just don't think!' Skye couldn't help but rage at her boyfriend, who slept in the next room