She's in the middle of filming a series titled Mrs. America set to air in 2020.

And Sarah Paulson took a break from the on-set grind as she wrapped up some last-minute holiday shopping at Violet Grey on Melrose Place in West Hollywood on Friday.

The American Horror Story actress, 45, kept her head warm in a grey knit beanie.

On-the-go: Sarah Paulson took a break from the on-set grind as she wrapped up some last-minute holiday shopping at Violet Grey on Melrose Place in West Hollywood

Paulson cut a comfy figure in a navy blue playsuit that featured a collar and cuffed hems.

She stepped out with a fresh face free of makeup, allowing the sunshine to highlight her natural beauty.

The sighting comes two days after L.A. tattoo artist Winterstone shared a photo of Paulson's new tattoo.

Winter-ready: The American Horror Story actress, 45, kept her head warm in a grey knit beanie

Winterstone posted a photo of the tattoo in a black and white via Instagram which read: 'ANYTHING YOU DO LET IT COME FROM YOU THEN IT WILL BE NEW.'

Next it seems that the tattoo was a gift Paulson gave to herself, as Winterstone wished her happy birthday in the caption.

'Keep being you and new!' Winterstone continued in the caption.

Busy: She stepped out with a fresh face free of makeup, allowing the sunshine to highlight her natural beauty

Inked: Winterstone posted a photo of the tattoo in a black and white via Instagram which read: 'ANYTHING YOU DO LET IT COME FROM YOU THEN IT WILL BE NEW'

Paulson celebrated her 45th birthday on Monday night alongside her girlfriend Holland Taylor, 76.

Their choice of eatery was upscale private members club San Vicente Bungalows in West Hollywood, where membership costs $4,200 for members over 35.

Newly restored at a cost of $50million, the club is known for being packed with celebrities, who enjoy going unhassled in hotelier Jeffrey Klein's club where cell phones are banned.

Glee alum Sarah can next be seen in American Crime Story's new season as Linda Tripp, with Ryan Murphy adapting Jeffrey Toobin's 2000 book A Vast Conspiracy: The Real Sex Scandal That Nearly Brought Down a President.

She began dating Legally Blonde star Holland after they reconnected via social media in 2015.