Trevor Spring was given the second degree charge of making threats after turning himself in to Connecticut State Police

A Connecticut has been charged with allegedly making threats towards a black juvenile believed to be connected to the Tessa Majors killing.

Trevor Spring was given the second degree charge after the New York City Police Department's Racially and Ethnically Motivated Extremism Unit contacted Connecticut State Police.

The Connecticut authorities were contacted after Spring allegedly wrote: 'A black kid 13/14-year-old stabbed a white gurl to death for nothing. Time to exterminate the real problem. Now he was freed by family/lawyer and let loose in HARLEM! I’m going to search for him myself tonight. Armed and ready to fire. Then the parents are next.'

Spring turned himself in and admitted to making the comments, Fox 61 reports. He explained to authorities that he was angry over Majors' death but had no plans to go to New York to ennact violence.

Police have determined that Spring does not own any weapons.

Majors was stabbed to death on December 11 in a robbery gone wrong as she approached the stairs to exit at West 116th Street in Morningside Park in Manhattan.

Spring turned himself in and admitted to making the comments. He explained to authorities that he was angry over Majors' death but had no plans to go to New York to ennact violence

The New York Police Department on Friday released photos of a third teenage suspect in the grisly stabbing murder.

The unnamed 14-year-old slipped out of a car while on his way to turn himself into police just five days ago.

On Friday Chief of Detectives Rodney Harrison released three photos of the boy, asking the public to come forward with information on his whereabouts.

Police typically do not release photos of underage suspects but have in this case as he is on the run from authorities.

A massive manhunt is currently underway for the teen who bolted from a car at a Harlem intersection on Monday night.

New York Police Department have released photos of the third teenage suspect, a 14-year-old unnamed male (left) in the grisly stabbing murder of Tessa Majors (right)

The 14-year-old is believed to be the one who fatally stabbed Majors.

Police were led to the 14-year-old by a 13-year-old suspect who has been taken into custody in Majors' murder.

That 13-year-old has been charged as a juvenile in connection with the murder, but is not believed to be the one who stabbed Majors.

Police believe three teens - the 13-year-old and two 14-year-olds - were involved in the attack and they went to Morningside Park on the evening of December 11 looking to rob someone.

Police typically do not release photos of underage suspects but have in this case as the fugitive teen (above) is on the run from authorities. A massive manhunt is currently underway for the teen who bolted from a car at a Harlem intersection on Monday night while he was being driven to hand himself in to police

Majors, an 18-year-old student at Barnard College from Virginia, was walking through Morningside Park on the Upper West Side when she was attacked last Wednesday just before 8pm

Majors, an 18-year-old student at Barnard College from Virginia, was walking through Morningside Park on the Upper West Side when she was attacked last Wednesday just before 8pm.

The trio ended up targeting Majors, who was by herself. They tried to take her things, got into a physical struggle with her, and she was stabbed multiple times, a detective testified on Tuesday at the 13-year-old's probably cause hearing.

A police officer responding to a radio call for a robbery in progress said she found Majors lying face down in the street. Majors was wheezing for breath and had lacerations on her face and stab wounds to her body.

The officer administered CPR to Majors who was pronounced dead at St. Luke's hospital. The city's medical examiner said Monday she died from wounds to the torso.

At the moment the case rests on the confession of the 13-year-old boy and videos of the three teens entering and leaving the park.

The other 14-year-old involved in the case was arrested but when investigators tried to interview the teen with his lawyer and mother present, he invoked his right to remain silent and was released, three of the officials said to the New York Times.

Anyone with information regarding his location is asked to call the NYPD Crime Stoppers Hotline 1-800-577-TIPS (8477) or in Spanish, 1-888-57-PISTA (74782). Anyone with information please call / DM @NYPDTips at 800-577-TIPS.