Coles has donated more than $3 million in gift cards to volunteer firefighters, as Australia continues to battle bushfires.

The supermarket chain will donate the gift cards to more than 6,000 fire crews across the country as a thank you for their efforts firefighting efforts.

Coles Group chief executive Steven Cain said offering firies the giftcards were a tangible thing they could do for crews who have been working tirelessly.

NSW Rural Fire Service crews watch on as on as the Gospers Mountain Fire impacts the Bilpin Fruit Bowl, in Bilpin, Saturday, December 21, 2019

New South Wales Premier Gladys Berijiklian on Thursday declared a state of emergency until December 26 as the bushfire crises continues.

Also on Thursday two volunteer firefighters were tragically killed when the NSW Rural Fire Service truck they were in crashed.

The bushfire threat has prompted prime minister Scott Morrison to return to Australia after cutting short a holiday overseas.

Coles CEO Mr Cain said they wanted to acknowledge the courage, dedication, and hard work of volunteer firefighters.

'As fires continue to burn across the country, tens of thousands of firefighters across Australia are volunteering their time to keep our communities safe. Some are based in fire-affected areas while others are travelling across borders and to other regions to help protect communities away from home,' he said.

'With a long, hot summer ahead of us, we wanted to show our appreciation of the enormous contribution these firefighters have already made and will continue to make. We are so grateful for their bravery and commitment.'

NSW Rural Fire Service Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons said firefighters appreciated Coles acknowledgement of their work.

'The efforts of our firefighters across the state during this unprecedented fire season has been extraordinary, but we also recognise that there are families and friends supporting those firefighters behind the scenes,' he said.

'This generous offer from Coles provides that opportunity for Brigades and communities to gather and say thank you.'