They're the Bachelorette couple who celebrated their one-year anniversary in August this year.

And on Friday, Ali Oetjen, 33 and her boyfriend Taite Radley, 29, looked happier than ever as they enjoyed an early Christmas lunch with family in Queensland.

Taking to Instagram, Taite shared a sweet snap alongside his beau, who looked chic and showed off her trim figure in a flirty floral dress.

It's that time of year! Former Bachelorette Ali Oetjen showed off her trim figure in a flirty floral dress as she enjoyed an early Christmas lunch with her boyfriend Taite Radley (pictured) and her parents on Friday

She accessorised her ensemble with a pair of beige slides and could't wipe the smile off her face as she posed alongside her boyfriend.

Ali's golden locks were left out and she opted for nude palette of makeup consisting of dewy foundation and a gloss lip.

Taite also looked stylish, wearing brown shorts, a blue buttoned shirt and a pair of brown shoes.

Family: Taite took to Instagram to share a series of snaps including a picture alongside Ali's parents, Hartmut and Helen (pictured), at The Spirit House restaurant

The 29-year-old was all smiles as he posed with Ali at The Spirit House restaurant in Queensland.

He hinted that the pair are currently on holiday in Queensland, writing: 'Spending Christmas up in Glass House Mountains. Kicking off the festive season early.'

Taite also posted a photo of the pair standing alongside Ali's parents, Hartmut and Helen, at the restaurant and smiling for the camera.

Going strong: Ali and Taite (pictured) celebrated their anniversary on August 24 after one-year of dating

Meanwhile, Ali and Taite celebrated their anniversary on August 24, after one-year of dating.

Ali took to Instagram at the time to post a video of herself waking up her boyfriend to gift him an engraved ring.

In the clip, she kissed Taite while he was sleeping and said 'good morning' before she gave him his anniversary present.

The couple, who are based in Melbourne, met on The Bachelorette in 2018.