They got married just over a year ago.

And now Karlie Kloss, 27, and her husband Joshua Kushner, 34, are skipping town after landing in St. Barts for the holidays.

The two were spotted out enjoying the sunshine as they touched down for a little vacation in the Caribbean on Friday afternoon.

Jet setters: Karlie Kloss and Joshua Kushner touch down in St. Barts on Friday as they avoid the bustle of the holidays in the states

The former Victoria's Secret Angel made island her runway as she arrived in a purple flowing dress.

Her dress had a deep v-cut and a black pattern on it and went perfectly with her navy blue Christian Dior handbag.

She completed the look with a pair of simple brown sandals and sleek pair of shades before hopping on a boat to her final destination.

Stylish: The former Victoria's Secret angel made island her runway as she arrive in a purple flowing dress

The lovely couple got married back in 2018 in a small, Jewish ceremony surrounded by their friends and family in upstate New York.

For the private ceremony, the covergirl sported a custom Dior gown to mark the special moment.

Months later, the couple continued their wedding celebrations with star-studded reception in Wyoming.

Friends such as Katy Perry, Orlando Bloom, and Derek Basberg, flew in to help celebrate with the happy couple.

Kicking bat: The couple kicks back with a cool drink in their hands as they take a boat to their next destination

Back in August, Karlie opened up about her change to the Jewish faith to British Vogue where she explained her decision: 'Changing part of who you are for someone else can be seen as weak,' she said of her big switch.

'But you know what? Actually, if you've been through what I've experienced, it requires you to be anything but weak. It requires me to be stronger and self-loving and resilient. I really did not take this lightly.'

'It wasn't enough to just love Josh and make this decision for him,' she continued. 'This is my life and I am an independent, strong woman. It was only after many years of studying and talking with my family and friends and soul searching that I made the decision to fully embrace Judaism in my life and start planning for a future with the man I chose to marry.'

Josh is the brother to Jared Kushner, senior adviser and son-in-law to President Donald Trump.

Jared's wife Ivanka Trump also converted to Orthodox Judaism before they tied the knot back in 2009.

Wedding day: On the happiest day of their life, the two exchanged their vows in a small wedding ceremony in New York