She and her longtime partner Kurt Russell love to spend time in snowy Colorado when they're not living the Hollywood life in Southern California.

Goldie Hawn beamed ear-to-ear on Friday as she took care of some last-minute Christmas shopping in Aspen.

The 74-year-old actress was spotted in a furry coat while out and about with a friend.

Having a blast: Goldie Hawn, 74, beamed ear-to-ear on Friday as she took care of some last-minute Christmas shopping in Aspen

Goldie looked nicely insulated against the chilly temperatures in a fuzzy midnight blue coat.

She paired it with a black sweater and low-key black pants, which she tucked into a pair of dark hiking boots.

The Shampoo star blocked out the sun with a pair of aviator sunglasses, and she added some flair to her ensemble with a pair of gold hoop earrings.

She made some purchases at a Rag & Bone while out and was seen chatting with a friend on the street.

Staying toasty: Goldie looked nicely insulated against the chilly temperatures in a fuzzy midnight blue coat, which she paired with a black sweater and low-key black pants

Goldie will be in feeling the holiday spirit a bit longer, as she's set to star in the upcoming Netflix film The Christmas Chronicles 2.

The 2018 original starred her partner Kurt Russell as Santa Claus, who is in danger of not delivering Christmas presents in time after two young children accidentally ruin his sleigh.

Goldie appeared in a small cameo role in that film, but now she'll be reprising her role as Mrs. Claus.

The movie is currently filming, and presumably she'll be playing a larger role after having been introduced in the first installment.

Christopher Columbus, director of the family friendly classics Home Alone, Mrs. Doubtfire and the first two Harry Potter films, will take over as director after producing the first film.

On the move: She made some purchases at Rag & Bone and chatted with a friend while out and about

Coming soon: Goldie will reprise her role as Mrs. Claus in The Christmas Chronicles 2 opposite her real-life partner Kurt Russell, who plays Santa. It's slate for a 2020 holiday release

Goldie confirmed her casting earlier this month in an Instagram post of her and her real-life partner in costume.

Kurt was spotted out with Goldie recently sporting a thick beard in order to play Santa.

The movie is eyeing a 2020 release date during the holidays.

On Thursday, Fast & Furious star Tyrese Gibson was announced as a new addition to the cast.

Blended family: Goldie and Kurt have been together since 1983. They share a son, Wyatt Russell, and Goldie has two children from her previous marriage to Bill Hudson, including actress Kate Hudson; shown in 2017

Goldie and Kurt began their relationship in 1983, after his divorce from actress Season Hubley, with whom he shares a son, Boston Russell.

The couple share a son, Wyatt Russell, and she also has two children, Oliver and Kate Hudson, from her marriage to Bill Hudson from 1976–1982.

Prior to that, she was married to director Gus Trikonis.