Kyly Clarke looked nothing short of sensational as she celebrated her parents' 50th wedding anniversary on Friday.

The cricket WAG, 38, looked positively radiant in a pretty white frock as she headed to watch the happy couple renew their vows in Sydney, in honour of the milestone year.

Kyly - who was pictured with husband Michael, 38, and their daughter Kelsey-Lee, four - oozed elegance in the gorgeous number, which floated down her svelte frame to show off her never-ending pins.

She's alright in white! Kyly Clarke (left) looked nothing short of sensational as she stepped out with her husband Michael (right) and daughter Kelsey-Lee (centre) in Sydney on Friday

The unusual cut-out ensemble drew attention to the fitness fanatic's muscular shoulders, while she elongated her legs with the help of some pretty beige wedge sandals.

Kyly - who held her daughter's hand in the sweet snaps - teamed her look with a simple beige clutch, and accesorised with a simple gold bangle on her right arm.

She enhanced her striking features with a dash of subtle make-up and left her brunette locks in a beachy wave style.

Meanwhile, her doting husband Michael kept things casual in a white cotton shirt, beige chinos and a white trainer.

Gorgeous! The jaw-dropping cricket WAG, 38, looked positively radiant in a pretty white frock as she attended her parents' 50th wedding anniversary and vow renewal in Sydney

'It's the kind of love': Kyly attended the event with her other half and their little girl Kelsey-Lee (pictured), who looked equally as pretty in a matching white gown

The pair's daughter Kelsey-Lee looked equally as cute in a little white gown that matched her mum.

Kyly shared a string of photos from the day, including of her doting parents.

She wrote on Instagram: 'The world's biggest CONGRATULATIONS to my darling parents for re-committing their vows to each other. 50 Year Anniversary.'

'Celebrating this fine day with their children and three grand children. What a memory! You're the epitome of a team.'

She added: 'Through good times and bad you hold strong and have each other's back. I'm not sure I have seen a mature couple as affectionate as the two of you. Unconditional love.'

Sweet: 'The worlds biggest CONGRATULATIONS to my darling parents for re-committing their vows to each other. 50 Year Anniversary!' said Kyly. Pictured: The happy family on Friday

What a milestone! 'I'm not sure I have seen a mature couple as affectionate as the two of you' Kyly praised her mother and father (pictured) as they celebrated the milestone anniversary surrounded by family

'Fifty years strong': Kyly then shared a sweet picture as she posed with her dad

She polished off her post by thanking everyone for making the day 'so special'.

It comes after Kyly was recently announced as one of the new judges for the 2020 season of House Rules.

Back in October, she told The Daily Telegraph: 'This is bringing two of my career loves together, interior design and TV presenting.'

Kyly will star as a judge on the revamped home renovation series, alongside Laurence Llewelyn-Bowen and tradesman and comedian Saul Myers.

Jamie Durie has been promoted to host, having previously been a judge, and will be joined by model Abbey Gelmi.