Oscar winner Olivia Colman is teaming up with her husband of 18 years - new screenwriter Ed Sinclair - to produce and star in four-part series Landscapers for HBO, Sky Atlantic, and Now TV.

The British 45-year-old will portray celebrity-obsessed woman Susan Edwards who, with husband Christopher, murdered her parents in 1998 and stole £245K from their savings account over 15 years.

The title 'Landscapers' refers to the fact that William and Patricia Wycherley, aged 86 and 63, were buried in their own back garden in Mansfield.

Family affair! Oscar winner Olivia Colman is teaming up with her husband of 18 years - new screenwriter Ed Sinclair - to produce and star in four-part series Landscapers for HBO, Sky Atlantic, and Now TV (pictured February 24)

Serving 25 years behind bars: The British 45-year-old will portray celebrity-obsessed woman Susan Edwards who, with husband Christopher, murdered her parents in 1998 and stole £245K from their savings account over 15 years

The Edwards killers - who fooled their families and friends into thinking her parents were still alive - are currently serving a minimum of 25 years behind bars.

'I love Ed's scripts, which is just as well as he cooks many of my meals. No, the truth is it's quite rare to be desperate to play a part on the first reading of a script, but that was the case here,' Colman gushed to Deadline on Friday.

'The writing is brave, but subtle and tender too – a joy for any actor.'

Olivia (born Sarah) originally met the former law student in the late nineties while acting in a Footlights production of Alan Ayckbourn's Table Manners.

Grisly: The title 'Landscapers' refers to the fact that William and Patricia Wycherley, aged 86 and 63, were buried in their own back garden in Mansfield (pictured in 2013)

Colman gushed to Deadline on Friday: 'I love Ed's scripts...It's quite rare to be desperate to play a part on the first reading of a script, but that was the case here. The writing is brave, but subtle and tender too – a joy for any actor'

Colman and Sinclair are parents of 14-year-old son Finn, 12-year-old son Hall, and a four-year-old daughter whose name has never been released.

Landscapers will be directed by two-time Oscar-winning writer Alexander Payne - who previously helmed Downsizing (2017), Nebraska (2013), The Descendants (2011), and Sideways (2004).

For her role as Queen Elizabeth II in The Crown, Olivia is next up for the actress in a TV series drama trophy at the 77th Golden Globe Awards, which air January 5 on NBC.

Parents of three! Olivia originally met the former law student in the late nineties while acting in a Footlights production of Alan Ayckbourn's Table Manners (pictured in 2015)

Action! Landscapers will be directed by Oscar-winning writer Alexander Payne (M) - who previously helmed Downsizing (pictured in 2017), Nebraska, The Descendants, and Sideways

Colman faces heavy competition against The Morning Show stars Jennifer Aniston + Reese Witherspoon, Killing Eve's Jodie Comer, and Big Little Lies star Nicole Kidman.

The Fleabag actress is also up for the actress in a drama series trophy at the 26th Screen Actors Guild Awards, which air January 19 on TNT/TBS.

The Favourite star goes head-to-head with her castmate Helena Bonham Carter, The Morning Show's Jennifer Aniston, Killing Eve's Jodie Comer, and The Handmaid's Tale star Elisabeth Moss.

Her majesty: For her role as Queen Elizabeth II in The Crown, Olivia is next up for the actress in a TV series drama trophy at the 77th Golden Globe Awards, which air January 5 on NBC

Who will win? Colman faces heavy competition against The Morning Show stars Jennifer Aniston + Reese Witherspoon, Killing Eve's Jodie Comer, and Big Little Lies star Nicole Kidman