EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) - Secondary scoring carried the Pittsburgh Penguins to a fourth straight win.

Tristan Jarry made 26 saves, Jared McCann scored and the Penguins beat the Edmonton Oilers 5-2 on Friday night.

Chad Ruhwedel, Joseph Blandisi, Kris Letang and Brandon Tanev also scored for the Penguins, who have won seven of their last eight games.

Pittsburgh head coach Mike Sullivan was pleased to see goals coming from more than the top line.

"It압 huge, especially given the circumstances right now with the amount of injuries that we have to have different guys step up and contribute offensively for us is necessary if were going to continue to find the win column," Sullivan said. "So guys are stepping up at different times and from a coaching standpoint, it압 been a lot of fun to watch because everybody압 been involved."

Jarry agreed that it has been all hands on deck for the Pens of late.

Pittsburgh Penguins' Kris Letang (58) celebrates his goal with Evgeni Malkin (71) during the third period of an NHL hockey game against the Edmonton Oilers on Friday, Dec. 20, 2019, in Edmonton, Alberta. (Codie McLachlan/The Canadian Press via AP)

"Every night we have a different group of guys stepping up," Jarry said. "That압 been the key for us, making sure were playing our game and playing to our systems and we get the timely goals that we do from different guys every night."

Zack Kassian and Riley Sheahan scored for the Oilers, who have lost six of their last seven.

"Far too many games were chasing it, especially at home," said Oilers defenseman Oscar Klefbom. "We can앖 put ourselves in the situation where we have to score five or six goals to win a game.

"We won some games early in the year where we maybe shouldn앖 have won and we았e lost some when we played some pretty good games, but I guess that압 the beauty of the game.

"It압 not easy to play a team like Pittsburgh where you have to score three goals in the third period, youre not giving yourself a chance."

The Penguins scored eight minutes into the first period. Oilers goaltender Mike Smith got a piece of a Ruhwedel's point shot, only to see it slowly trickle behind him and into the net.

Pittsburgh made it 2-0 five minutes later when Zach Aston-Reese sprung Blandisi for a breakaway as he came out of the penalty box and beat Smith.

Edmonton got on the board seven minutes into the second period as Kassian tipped his 13th of the season past Jarry off a shot by Darnell Nurse.

The Penguins regained their two-goal edge with 4:22 left in the middle frame when McCann picked off a pass and went in on a clear breakaway, beating Smith with a backhand deke.

The Oilers got a short-handed goal with 23 seconds left in the second as Sheahan elected to shoot on a 3-on-1 and capitalized.

Pittsburgh responded on the same power play 38 seconds into the third as Letang blasted home his ninth of the year.

Tanev put the game away with an empty-netter.

NOTES: The Penguins improved to 15-0-4 in their last 19 games against the Oilers, last losing in regulation to Edmonton on Jan. 10, 2006. ... The Penguins have been battling a number of injuries with Sidney Crosby (core muscle), Nick Bjugstad (lower body), Brian Dumoulin (lower body), Patric Hornqvist (lower body) and Justin Schultz (lower body) all out. ... Oklahoma State University star running back Chuba Hubbard, who hails from the Edmonton suburb of Sherwood Park, dropped the puck for a ceremonial faceoff. Hubbard had 1,936 yards rushing for the Cowboys this season, the second most in a single season at Oklahoma State behind NFL Hall of Famer Barry Sanders' NCAA-record season total of 2,850 in 1988.

UP NEXT

Penguins: At Vancouver on Saturday.

Oilers: Host Montreal on Saturday.

___

More AP NHL: https;//apnews.com/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports

Edmonton Oilers goaltender Mike Smith (41) lets in a goal from Pittsburgh Penguins' Kris Letang, not seen, as Penguins' Teddy Blueger (53) and Jared McCann (19) watch during the third period of an NHL hockey game Friday, Dec. 20, 2019, in Edmonton, Alberta. (Codie McLachlan/The Canadian Press via AP)

Edmonton Oilers' Darnell Nurse (25) shouts at Pittsburgh Penguins' Evgeni Malkin (71) during the third period of an NHL hockey game Friday, Dec. 20, 2019, in Edmonton, Alberta. (Codie McLachlan/The Canadian Press via AP)

Edmonton Oilers' Zack Kassian (44) celebrates his goal against the Pittsburgh Penguins during the second period of an NHL hockey game Friday, Dec. 20, 2019, in Edmonton, Alberta. (Codie McLachlan/The Canadian Press via AP)

Edmonton Oilers' James Neal (18) misses a shot on Pittsburgh Penguins goaltender Tristan Jarry (35) during the second period of an NHL hockey game Friday, Dec. 20, 2019, in Edmonton, Alberta. (Codie McLachlan/The Canadian Press via AP)

Edmonton Oilers' Sam Gagner (89) pursues Pittsburgh Penguins' Kris Letang (58) during second period NHL action in Edmonton, Friday, Dec. 20, 2019. THE CANADIAN PRESS/Codie McLachlan/The Canadian Press via AP)