The Bachelor's Olena Khamula stunned in a white wedding dress on Saturday, as she married Rodney Maroun.

The reality TV star made a blushing bride in her strapless gown, which featured gorgeous lace detailing.

Rodney took to Instagram to share a snap of himself with his bride after the ceremony, with the pair unable to wipe the smiles off their faces.

Just married! The Bachelor's Olena Khamula was a blushing bride and stunned in a plunging white dress on Saturday as she tied the knot with Rodney Maroun

He captioned it with a simple emoji, while looking dapper in a black and white suit.

Olena completed her look with her dark hair pulled back and off her face and wore natural-looking makeup, including soft eye shadow and eyeliner.

She also wore a long white veil with her gown.

'Two more sleeps': On Thursday, Rodney took to Instagram to share a snap of himself with Olena on a boat, saying how excited he was to get married

In a pictured shared to a wedding photography page, her Valentino wedding shoes could be seen, alongside her stunning diamond engagement ring and their white wedding invites.

On Thursday, Rodney took to Instagram to share a snap of himself with Olena on a boat, saying how excited he was to get married.

'Two more sleeps till she can't turn back,' Rodney wrote, adding the hashtag: 'Till death do us party.'

In January, Olena announced their engagement, taking to Instagram to share a video of her stunning ring and writing: 'I said yes!'

Lovebirds: In January, Olena announced their engagement, taking to Instagram to share a video of her stunning ring and writing: 'I said yes!'

Smitten: She also shared a sweet snap of the pair online (pictured) and wrote: 'We are engaged. Rodney you are truly the most incredible person I have ever met and I can't believe I will get to spend the rest of my life with my best friend'

She also shared a sweet snap of the pair online and wrote: 'We are engaged. Rodney you are truly the most incredible person I have ever met and I can't believe I will get to spend the rest of my life with my best friend.'

She added: 'Thank you so much for making our day so special you have made me the happiest girl in the world. I love you Maroun.'

Makeup artist Olena is best known for appearing on The Bachelor with Richie Strahan in 2016, but the pair failed to find love.

Remember that? Makeup artist Olena is best known for appearing on The Bachelor with Richie Strahan in 2016, but the pair failed to find love (pictured together on the show)

She's a beauty! Back on the show, Olena was blonde

In March 2017, Olena told Daily Mail Australia that Rodney was 'the one.'

'I'm really happy I've found the one for me,' the Ukranian model said at the time.

'It's going well, everything's been going great and we have a very good connection,' Olena said.

'It's been a crazy ride, before the show, during the show, after the show, all of that experience,' she added.

The pair are believed to have first started dating back in October 2016.