A mother-of-one was rescued from her car on a spinal board after a reckless hit-and-run driver - believed to be behind the wheel of a taxi - crashed into her.

Sarah Albiston was on the way to pick up her six-year-old son when she was dangerously shunted by another motorist, who she believes was a private hire taxi driver.

The 40-year-old said her Honda Accord was sent spinning and almost flipped over when the wheels briefly left the road in Widnes, Cheshire, at around 8.40pm on Saturday evening.

Sarah Albiston (pictured) was on the way to pick up her six-year-old son when she was dangerously shunted by another motorist in Widnes, Cheshire

Ms Albiston claims the driver had relentlessly tailgated her car in the minutes before the impact, positioning himself just a few inches from her back.

The care worker also claims the culprit repeatedly manoeuvred to try to overtake her before crashing into the back of her car near a bridge on Hale Road.

In photos taken at the scene of the crash Ms Albiston can be seen on a spinal board surrounded by paramedics who feared she had suffered a back injury

The crash then sent her Honda spinning, before it came to a stop, facing the wrong way round, half on the road and the pavement.

Ms Albiston said the force of the crash caused her to hit her head on the steering wheel and she was left dizzy and disorientated over what had happened.

In photos taken at the scene of the crash Ms Albiston can be seen on a spinal board surrounded by paramedics who feared she had suffered a back injury.

She was taken to Whiston Hospital where medics informed her she had sustained painful muscular injuries, but thankfully no permanent damage.

The single mother remembered seeing a private hire company name on the taxi but could not recall what it said.

Ms Albiston, who is also studying for a health and social care qualification at college, said: 'I was hyperventilating afterwards and couldn't calm down. They put a neck brace on me and I was taken out on a spinal board.

She was taken to Whiston Hospital where medics informed her she had sustained painful muscular injuries, but thankfully no permanent damage

Police at the scene of the crash involving Sarah Albiston on Hale Road in Widnes, Cheshire on Saturday

'I was in a lot of pain in my neck and back and my legs were shaking. I eventually got home at 3am on Sunday.

'This bloke was driving really erratically. He just didn't slow down. I felt sick afterwards, I had felt the wheels lift off the ground.

'I want whoever did this caught. It is disgusting. He didn't even stop to see if I was ok.'

Ms Albiston, who has called for anyone who witnessed the crash to come forward said she has reported the incident to Cheshire Police and officers have arranged to come to her house and take a statement.

Anyone with information can contact Cheshire Police by calling 101 or contact Crimestoppers, anonymously, on 0800 555 111.