They recently wrapped the US dates of their tour, Happiness Begins, and took the time Friday to bring down the house in Atlanta, Georgia.

Nick Jonas, Joe Jonas and Kevin Jonas of the Jonas Brothers performed to wild crowds at Power 96.1's Jingle Ball 2019 show in the southern US city, with onstage effects that included wow-inducing pyrotechnics.

The handsome trio of musically gifted brothers wore black-and-white ensembles, with Nick, 27, in a leather motorcycle jacket with white shoulder padding, Joe, 30, in a top set featuring the image of a tiger, and eldest bro Kevin, 32, in a silk jacket with stripes.

On fire: Nick Jonas, Joe Jonas and Kevin Jonas of the Jonas Brothers performed to wild crowds at Power 96.1's Jingle Ball 2019 show in Atlanta on Friday

At one point, Nick donned a Santa hat while he strummed on his guitar for the holiday-themed concert.

The show also featured a screen with graphics, which displayed a cheeky Christmas design with all three brothers' heads adorned with Santa hats, along with the message 'You make every day feel like it's Christmas'.

The brothers were last in New York City, where Nick's wife Priyanka Chopra saw them off at the Four Seasons Hotel.

Sucker for these boys: Nick was in a leather motorcycle jacket with white shoulder padding, while Joe wore a top set featuring the image of a tiger

Boom: The Jonas Brothers had onstage effects that included wow-inducing pyrotechnics

Handsome trio: The brothers recently wrapped the US dates of their tour Happiness Begins

Christmas cute: The guys were clearly feeling it as they belted out the tunes

Before that, the brothers wrapped the third leg of their sold-out tour at the Forum in Inglewood, California, over the weekend.

They'll next take their talents across the pond for 16 shows in Europe in the new year, with stops in England, Ireland, Scotland, Belgium and Italy, to name just a few.

But on Friday, they headlined the Atlanta Jingle Ball show, which also included Irish singer-songwriter Niall Horan.

Busy brothers: After the holidays, they'll next take their talents across the pond for 16 shows in Europe in the new year

On Friday, their show featured a screen with graphics...

...which at one point displayed a cheeky Christmas design

Horan, formerly of One Direction, performed in a white button-down shirt open at the collar to reveal a hairy chest, paired with peach-colored slacks.

The 26-year-old crooner also made an appearance at the press room for the show.

Khalid and Lewis Capaldi were also noted performers, among other acts, at Atlanta's Jingle Ball.

Smiley: The Atlanta Jingle Ball show also included Irish singer-songwriter Niall Horan

Hirsute: Horan, formerly of boyband One Direction, performed in a white button-down shirt open at the collar