Sick of missing cuts and struggling for form, Nick Flanagan decided to stop trying.

And it proved a masterstroke at the Australian PGA Championship, moving from the cut-line to within one shot of the overnight lead with a course record-equalling 63 at Royal Pines on Saturday.

His bogey-free nine-under round moved him to eight under for the tournament in an early assault missed by most punters who were arriving later to watch big guns Adam Scott and Cameron Smith.

But it meant the Newcastle product, now based in San Antonio, will likely be in the mix on the final day before he heads back to the United States where his wife is expecting their first child.

That preoccupation, and a string of poor results that have left him without a full-time tour card next year, meant Flanagan treated Saturday like a free swing.

"It got to a point today where I've been playing so bad and trying so hard that I thought I'd just go out there and not try at all and all of a sudden you loosen up over the ball," he said.

"It'll be different tomorrow; I'll have to get back to being intense again but stay relaxed enough that it's no big deal if things don't work out.

"I've got a baby due in five weeks, that's what I'll be thinking about, obviously I'd love to go out there and win, but it's finding that balance again."

The 35-year-old birdied the first four holes and was flirting with a sub-60 round before a handful of birdie putts and another eagle chance slid by.

He missed a long birdie putt on the 18th, settling for a tap-in par to equal Ross McGowan's effort of last year.

"It was kind of out of the blue. The first two days I was really struggling, especially the first day," the former US Amateur champion said.

"I missed the last two cuts in a row and just went out and didn't play with any pressure on myself.

"I wasn't trying to make a ton of birdies, was just trying to get it on the greens and kind of give myself putts today, and I tended to hit it closer than I had the last two days and I made all the putts."