A woman was sentenced to two years in jail on Friday, following an attempt to smuggle 1,600 MDMA capsules into an event last year.

Grace Poo, 23, tried to enter the Midnight Mafia event at Olympic Park May 5th 2018 but was stopped by sniffer dogs.

The MDMA capsules were found stuffed into several condoms which Poo had hidden in her bra and vagina.

Grace Poo was jailed for two years after she tried to smuggle 1600 MDMA capsules in her bra and vagina into 'Midnight Mafia' event

NSW District Court heard how she was vulnerable and on the verge of homelessness when she agreed to be a mule.

After she was caught Grace told police she had 'a lot' of drugs on her

When then asked how much she responded: 'Like, a lot. A lot of MDMA.'

Her 'reward' for carrying the drugs was $200, 40 drug freebies and a ticket to the event.

Judge Turnbull sentenced Grace Poo to a minimum of one year behind bars.

The court heard how Grace had began taking MDMA recreationally as a 'weekend activity with friends' before progressing to taking five capsules per night The Sydney Morning Herald revealed.

The vulnerable young woman was on the verge of homelessness when she agreed to be a mule for financial gain

Poo tried to smuggle the drugs into Midnight Mafia at Sydney Olympic park. She admitted to smuggling MDMA into Defqon.1 where two people fatally overdosed.

During sentencing Judge Turnbull said that Poo had a difficult upbringing.

'She's had to fend for herself without advantage or opportunity' stating that her intentions were more complex than purely financial gain,' she said.

Julian Martusciello, a former banker and drug dealer, was jailed alongside Poo for 18 months for supplying her with 213 of the MDMA capsules.

Martusciello sobbed in court as he was jailed and shouted apologies to his mother and father.

Poo had also smuggled 1,000 capsules into Sydney's Defqon.1, festival where two partygoers suffered fatal overdoses on MDMA in 2018.

She also smuggled 300 MDMA capsules into the Circuz festival at Olympic Park in return for drugs and $1000 in 2017.