Shaun Hampson has revealed that he and Megan Gale are having a quiet family Christmas at home.

The 31-year-old told The Daily Telegraph on Monday: 'We're probably just going to stay in Melbourne. It's usually just a small family thing with us'.

The former AFL player went on to reveal that he and his 44-year-old fiancée concentrate on their children.

'It's all about the family': Shaun Hampson (left) revealed on Monday that he and fiancée Megan Gale (right) will have a quiet Christmas this year

In fact, the sportsman has even insisted that his family do not buy him any gifts this year.

He told the paper: 'I tell the fam, "don't buy me anything, I don't really need anything". I focus more on the kids and make sure everybody has a great day.'

Model Megan and former Carlton and Richmond player Shaun began dating in 2011, and got engaged in July 2017.

The 31-year-old said: 'We're probably just going to stay in Melbourne. It's usually just a small family thing with us'. The sportsman has even insisted that his family do not buy him any gifts

He told the paper: 'I tell the fam, "don't buy me anything, I don't really need anything". I focus more on the kids and make sure everybody has a great day.' The pair have two children, River, five, and Rosie, two (pictured)

The pair have two children, River, five, and Rosie, two, and Shaun says that the focus is on them this year.

It comes after Megan revealed that she missed her partner Shaun so much while he was filming the latest season of Survivor Australia, she sought help.

The beauty spoke to Janine Allis in a video for The Mindful Life website, and described feeling a sense of 'grief' over Shaun's eight week absence.

'I found that, in a lot of ways, I can be mindful and very mentally resilient. But I was surprised at how vulnerable I was.

'I called the show's psychologists': It comes after Megan revealed that she missed partner Shaun so much while he was filming Australian Survivor that she sought professional help

Away: The AFL star was away in Fiji for eight weeks shooting. Pictured: Shaun on Survivor

'To the point where I called one of the show's psychologists as soon as I realised there was someone to talk to,' she said.

The mother-of-two previously revealed how their family reconnected when Shaun returned from his stint filming the show in Fiji.

Megan said the family-of-four went on a mini trip, heading to the picturesque Victorian town of Daylesford.