Jahkoy Palmer split from Tammy Hembrow in November, after a five-month whirlwind romance.

And the Canadian rapper, 25, shared the lyrics behind his new track Nobody's Business, to Instagram on Thursday.

The song, which is dedicated to the model, sees the 25-year-old encouraging his ex-girlfriend to not listen to everyone's 'opinions' as it's simply not their 'business'.

Sending a message: Jahkoy Palmer (left), 25, said his relationship with ex Tammy Hembrow (right), 25, is 'nobody's business' in an Instagram post on Thursday

Jahkoy posted a throwback photo of the pair packing on the PDA in front of a window reflection, along with a short clip of the new track.

He wrote in the post's caption: 'You're entitled to an opinion but it ain't your business. Run that s**t up on Soundcloud for me.'

The lyrics see Jahkoy not giving up on his former flame, while simultaneously encouraging her to block out the public's opinion on their short-lived relationship.

In honour: Jahkoy posted a throwback photo of the pair packing on the PDA in front of a window reflection, along with a short clip of the new track which is dedicated to Tammy

Private matter: Jahkoy wrote in the post's caption: 'You're entitled to an opinion but it ain't your business. Run that s**t up on Soundcloud for me'

'Baby I'm home, I'll be waiting for as long, because you come back to me for sure, because you can't get comfortable,' he sings.

'F**k the comments online, girl. You're alright. Just leave it up to me,' Jahkoy continues. 'It's none of their business, they can sell it what they want. No limits.'

Jahkoy hasn't been shy in declaring his love for Tammy on Instagram.

Earlier this month, he shared a snap of the former couple kissing in a hotel room and vowed to be a 'better man'.

Public declaration: Earlier this month, Jahkoy shared a snap of the former couple kissing in a hotel room and vowed to be a 'better man'

His one and only: And just last weekend, Jahkoy insisted that Tammy is 'mine' when asked by a fan to describe his ex-girlfriend in one word

'I'm sorry that I took you for granted. I know how much s**t you put up with for me and I will always cherish you for it. I want to pride myself in being a better man for myself and for my woman,' he wrote.

And just last weekend, Jahkoy insisted that Tammy is 'mine' when asked by a fan to describe his ex-girlfriend in one word.

Despite his endless attempts to reunite with Tammy, the fitness mogul laughed about the idea when questioned by Daily Mail Australia on Tuesday.

Failing to respond: Despite his endless attempts to reunite with Tammy, the fitness mogul laughed about the idea when questioned by Daily Mail Australia on Tuesday

When asked if there's any unfinished business with Jahkoy, she failed to respond and instead giggled.

Tammy and Jahkoy debuted their romance in June, but appeared to have split for good in November.

They have also un-followed and re-followed each other on Instagram on more than one occasion.