She's always marched to the beat of her own drum.

And Friday was another action-packed day for Amber Rose, who was seen out modeling her post-baby ‘body lift’ in the same skintight get-up she had on the day prior.

Rose, 36, was accompanied by her boyfriend Alexander 'AE' Edwards to lunch at Il Pastaio in Beverly Hills, carrying a chic black leather handbag and clutching the hand of her man.

Is that Deadpool? Friday was another action-packed day for Amber Rose, who was seen out modeling her post-baby ‘body lift’ in the same skintight get-up she had on the day prior

Rose wore a black and red skintight ensemble that resembled scuba gear, which featured the brand name Misbhv.

She accessorized with a heavy-looking silver chain around her neck, plus a black baseball cap.

On her feet, the model wore black Gucci slides with gold buckles.

Edwards, 33, was in a white tee and over-sized black pants, and he displayed his new forehead tattoo.

Curves: Rose wore a black and red skintight ensemble that resembled scuba gear, which featured the brand name Misbhv

Proud parents: Rose was accompanied by her boyfriend Alexander 'AE' Edwards to lunch at Il Pastaio in Beverly Hills

The pair are welcomed new son Slash Electric just two months ago, and Amber has since undergone extensive liposuction surgery to shed the excess baby weight.

After giving birth in October, Amber let fans know that she was undergoing the full-body surgical procedure.

'I'm about to get my whole body done after the baby,' she said in a video on Instagram.

'[The surgeon is] gonna suck all the baby fat out of my stomach.'

It's a look: Edwards was in a white tee and over-sized black pants, and he displayed his new forehead tattoo

Under the knife: After giving birth in October, Amber let fans know that she was undergoing a full-body surgical procedure

She showed herself in a hospital gown with markings along her jaw that she said her doctor was going to 'fix.'

The mother-of-two went on to say that she was 'super excited' for the procedure before telling her fans that she loves them.

'Wish me luck, bye,' she said before getting wheeled into surgery.

On Friday, the School Dance actress also posted her activities on Instagram, which included visiting Cookies marijuana dispensary in Hollywood, as well as apparel store Von Dutch on Melrose Avenue.

Pain management: On Friday, the School Dance actress also posted her activities on Instagram, which included visiting Cookies marijuana dispensary in Hollywood