They made their red carpet debut as a couple in May.

And Gavin Rossdale and his model girlfriend Natalie Golba were getting ready for the festive season as they did some last-minute Christmas shopping in Beverly Hills on Sunday.

The singer, 54, cut a casual figure in a checked shirt and combat trousers with a splattered paint effect as he headed through the car park with Natalie, 27, who was wearing tight black sportswear.

Relaxed: Gavin Rossdale, 54, and his model girlfriend Natalie Golba, 27, were getting ready for the festive season as they did some last-minute Christmas shopping in Beverly Hills on Sunday

Gavin opted for a low-key green checked shirt with his multicoloured trousers as he strolled through the car park following his festive shopping trip.

The hitmaker was joined by Natalie, who wore tight black leggings and a matching vest under her white padded jacket with trainers.

She carried her essentials in a little black backpack as she strolled alongside beau Gavin, perhaps in preparation for their first Christmas together.

Low Key: The singer cut a casual figure in a checked shirt and combat trousers with a splattered pain effect while Natalie opted for tight black sportswear

Gavin and Natalie made their red carpet debut as a couple back in May, as they attended the John Wick Chapter 3 premiere in New York.

The Bush lead singer attended the launch with his glamorous girlfriend, after his group recorded the film's title track Bullet Holes.

Gavin was previously linked to German actress Sophie Thomalla, but their breakup came to light last December when she was seen making out with a German footballer in Miami.

They're dating! Gavin and Natalie made their red carpet debut as a couple back in May, as they attended the John Wick Chapter 3 premiere in New York

His relationship with Sophia was his first after splitting from wife Gwen Stefani in 2015.

The No Doubt songstress and Glycerine crooner were wed from 2002 to 2016 and share Kingston, 13, Zuma, 11, and Apollo, five.

Gwen, 50, has now been dating country singer Blake Shelton since 2015, after first meeting as judges on NBC's The Voice.