Washington State Rep. Matt Shea has declared that a recent investigation accusing him of domestic terrorism was a 'sham,' adding that he was being treated like President Trump.

The embattled politician took to his Facebook after Washington State House Minority Leader JT Wilcox announced that the Spokane representative was suspended from any role in the House Republican Caucus.

'He cannot use House Republican staff, he cannot meet with the caucus, his office will be moved,' Wilcox stated.

Wilcox's and Shea's comments come after an independent investigation commissioned by the Washington State House of Representatives alleged that Shea engaged in acts of domestic terrorism against the US for his part working with the Bundy family militia.

Washington State House Minority Leader JT Wilcox announced on Thursday night that Matt Shea was suspended from any role in the House Republican Caucus

In late Thursday night Facebook post, the conservative politician compared his investigation to Trump's impeachment

In late Thursday night Facebook post, the conservative politician compared his investigation to Trump's impeachment.

'Like we are seeing with our President this is a sham investigation meant to silence those of us who stand up against attempts to disarm and destroy our great country,' Shea said in the post.

'I will not back down, I will not give in, I will not resign. Stand strong fellow Patriots. Thank you to everyone for the massive outpouring of support prayers!

'He cannot use House Republican staff, he cannot meet with the caucus, his office will be moved,' Wilcox stated in his release

'I will continue to defend the constitution against tyranny and fight to protect our God given unalienable rights to life, liberty, property, and the ability to defend the same.'





On Facebook, Wilcox - a Republican - shared that the decision to act against Shea was 'painful' but 'necessary' to do.





'I will stand up for the right of anyone to express their political opinion,' he said in the post . 'Planning armed confrontation that puts innocent lives at risk is an entirely different thing and there is no right to do that regardless of which side you are on.'





Wilcox has called for Shea to resign.





The Rampart Group LLC private investigation firm released a 108-pg report detailing how Representative Matt Shea 'planned, engaged in and promoted a total of three armed conflicts of political violence against the United States Government' as a leader of the Patriot Movement

The Rampart Group LLC private investigation firm released a 108-pg report detailing how Representative Matt Shea 'planned, engaged in and promoted a total of three armed conflicts of political violence against the United States Government' as a leader of the Patriot Movement.

Shea was found to have had a hand in three events: a 2014 standoff in Bunkerville, Nevada, that involved 1500 armed militia members; a 2015 armed conflict in Priest River, Idaho, against the Veteran Administration; and the 2016 armed takeover at Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Burns, Oregon, that led to the death of one person.

'In one conflict Representative Shea led cover strategic pre-planning in advance of the conflict,' the report states of Shea's participation in the Oregon incident, which lasted for 41 days 'resulting in devastating, financial, physical and emotional harm to a community and its residents; and the loss of one life.'

The report states that Shea communicated with Ammon Bundy and other militia members 'in the planning' of the takeover from November 2015 through January 2, 2016.

Shea - who was first elected in 2008 - was said to have released a press release calling for militia to help support the action in Oregon.

Shea was found to have had a hand in a 2014 standoff in Bunkerville, Nevada and a 2015 armed conflict in Priest River, Idaho, against the Veteran Administration (pictured)

But Shea most notably assisted in the 2016 armed takeover at Malheur National Wildlife Refuge in Burns, Oregon, that led to the death of one person

He was also said to have created a detailed operation plan on January 3 of that year - called 'Operation Cold Reality' - that gave clear explanations as to what leadership was to do during the armed occupation at the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge.

On January 4, 2016, Shea used an encrypted email and the code name 'Verumbellator' to contact state reps. from Washington, Idaho and Nevada - along with Coalition of Western States militia leaders - to give them instructions for the takeover.

Not identifying himself as a member of COWS, Shea traveled to Burns, Oregon, and met with law enforcement that was dealing with Ammon Bundy and the armed occupiers,' the report states.

Not identifying himself as a member of COWS, Shea traveled to Burns, Oregon, and met with law enforcement that was dealing with Ammon Bundy (top left) and the armed occupiers,' the report states. Shea was said to have 'gathered intelligence to counter law enforcement operations'

He was said to have 'gathered intelligence to counter law enforcement operations.'

Shea then referred to the Bureau of Land Management as 'terrorists' before informing Ammon Bundy and the occupiers of extreme danger they were facing - a move law enforcement in Oregon was not thrilled about.

Following the standoff, Shea reportedly wrote in a February 11, 2016, Facebook post: 'After much prayer, I'm afraid violence might be necessary to take our country back.'

In a March 2016 statement to the Washington State House of Representatives Ethics Investigator, Shea said that he had visited the Oregon community on a 'fact finding mission.' He also told them that he had been 'invited' by Oregon elected officials.

In addition to the three occurrences, the report details that Shea has a longstanding history of shady dealings

In addition to the three occurrences, the report details that Shea has a longstanding history of shady dealings.

They included an incident in September 2012 where the politician intimidated his opponent - Amy Biviano - by posing a photo of himself in front of her house.

From 2014 to 2019, Shea is also said to have condoned intimidation by supporters of his political opposition to 'include activists, government officials, Muslims, and others who speak or act in opposition to his personal beliefs and political agenda.'

The representative was also said to have supported the training of young adults to fight in a Holy War in 2016, even writing the Biblical Basis for War - which advocated for a theocracy and demanded all men who disagreed, be killed.

The report states that Rep. Shea used his standing as a Patriot Movement leader to boast his and the group's standing.

The Patriot Movement is a loose organization of conservative groups that reside in mostly rural areas and include armed militia members.

They included an incident in September 2012 where the politician intimidated his opponent - Amy Biviano - by posing a photo of himself in front of her house

Biviano's husband took to Facebook to share that his family had been investigated for Shea's actions

These 'sovereign citizens' often have a deep fear of the federal government.

In a statement to the Seattle Times, the 45-year-old politician called the investigation 'unprecedented.'

He added that the House was investigating 'lawful communications between a member of the House and citizens of this country.'

'Due process is the right of every citizen, and should be afforded to all members of the House regardless of their views or party affiliation,' Shea said. 'I will not back down. I will continue to fight for our shared values that have made this country such a blessing to the rest of the world.'

The report has been forwarded to the FBI and to the US Attorney's Office, incoming Democratic House Speaker Laurie Jinkins told the Seattle TImes.