Janine Allis has revealed how her draining stint on Australian Survivor changed her life for the better in a candid blog post.

The millionaire Boost Juice CEO, 45, stripped herself of all of life's luxuries to appear on the challenge show earlier this year.

In her personal blog 'A year that was', Janine described the experience as 'the biggest turning point' for her over the course of 2019, before revealing how it improved her outlook on life forever.

Life changing: Janine Allis (pictured) has opened up about her time on Australian Survivor, in an emotion-filled blog post to her fans

'A 50-day detox from all devices and communication from the outside world has left me feeling more grateful than ever for all the things I have and am able to do,' she wrote.

'It was a forced assessment of what really matters and what I think is important.'

Janine is happily married to husband Jeff Allis, and the two share four children; Samuel, 28, Oliver, 22, Riley, 20 and Tahlia, 10.

The reality star added that ditching things like the internet, iPhones and social media helped make her family unit better than it's ever been.

All that matters: Janine admits her family (pictured) are 'stronger than ever' after her stint on the show this year

Janine continued: 'I had an amazing experience, made some great new friends, scared myself a little… and a lot! And I feel my family is as strong as ever.'

Despite being a fan-favourite to win the whole show - which finished in September - the businesswoman was savagely booted from the competition weeks before the final.

In a surprise outcome at tribal council which no one saw coming, Janine received four votes to be shipped from the show from her fellow islanders - while competitor Baden Gilbert received two.

A huge difference: The reality star added that ditching things like the internet, iPhones and social media helped make her family unit better than it's ever been. Pictured on the show earlier this year

'I didn't see it coming!' Janine said upon hearing the news.

She previously spoke about her decision to appear on the show in a tell-all interview with Daily Mail Australia.

'Why wouldn't you?' she said. 'If someone says to you you've got an opportunity to absolutely have an experience of a lifetime and it won't be a very comfortable experience and it could be the worst and best time of your life how could you say no?

'To be able to sit around with 12 people you've never known before... To sit in front of campfires without internet, without anything.

'To challenge yourself every day physically, mentally, emotionally, to see what you've been made of. I mean, how could you not say yes to that?'