Their on-again, off-again relationship may very well be back on track.

Kourtney Kardashian's ex-boyfriend Younes Bendjima remembered her son Reign's fifth birthday by gifting him with a brand new pair of black Prada sneakers.

'Happy birthday Lil Prince,' the model, 26, wrote across a photo he shared on his Instagram Story.

Sweet gesture: Kourtney Kardashian's on-again, off-again beau Younes Bendjima gave her son Reign Disick a pair of Prada sneakers for his fifth birthday

In the snap, Reign could be seen kneeling down on the floor with an excited look on his face as pulled the sneakers out of the box that sat to his right.

He's wearing a Mickey Mouse long-sleeve shirt, brown pants and some sneakers that he likely pulled off in order to test-ride his new Prada footwear.

The youngest of Kardashian's three children also had his long brown tresses pulled back into a ponytail and a big beaming smile on his face.

Back on? Bendjima's birthday gesture is the latest sign that he and the Poosh founder may have rekindled their romance after splitting about a year ago

It appears Kourtney and Younes are getting close again after splitting about a year ago.

The birthday gesture came just days after the pair were spotted spending time together at Disneyland.

To document the fun outing, the reality star shared a sweet snap of herself as she held Reign in her arms in front of the 'It's A Small World' holiday ride.

Bendjima also posted a number of pictures and videos of the fun outing on social media.

Adorable: The Keeping Up With The Kardashians star went to Disneyland with Benjima and her son Reign on Tuesday; mother and son posed in front of the 'It's A Small World' holiday ride

Up close and personal: The Algerian model also shared some selfies of their trip to Disneyland

The Poosh founder is fond of the theme park and often visits with Reign and her other two children: son Mason, 10, and daughter Penelope, seven.

The former couple were also seen at the same party in Miami during Art Basel earlier this month.

Their on-and-off romance dates back to 2016.

History: Bendjima, 26, and Kardashian, 40, started dating in 2016; they are pictured in March 2018, months before they split following a lengthy vacation in Italy with her children

Holiday spirit: Kourtney later showed off her over-the-top holiday spirit with a row of Christmas trees