Three-time Oscar nominee Joaquin Phoenix put a protective arm around Poldark star Woody Norman on the final day of shooting Mike Mills' untitled drama in Manhattan's Chinatown neighborhood on Friday.

The Puerto Rican-born 45-year-old braved the frozen Big Apple's winter bundled up in a green The North Face coat and Converse low-tops as he hauled several recyclable bags.

Joaquin later changed into a black peacoat as he continued to act opposite his 10-year-old co-star, who was wearing a green puffer coat and bright yellow sneakers.

Scroll down for video

Action! Three-time Oscar nominee Joaquin Phoenix (R) put a protective arm around Poldark star Woody Norman (L) on the final day of shooting Mike Mills' untitled drama in Manhattan's Chinatown neighborhood on Friday.

The A24 film's plot is unknown aside from Phoenix (born Bottom) portraying a sound man due to the recording equipment he was hauling on set back on December 5.

The Oscar-nominated 53-year-old writer previously helmed 20th Century Women (2016), Beginners (2010), and Thumbsucker (2005).

On December 4, little Woody's mother Vonda Barnes revealed on Instagram that Mills gifted him a vintage guitar.

Mike's movie also stars three-time Emmy nominee Gaby Hoffmann, a former child star last seen as Ali Pfefferman in the Amazon hit series, Transparent.

B-ball court: The Puerto Rican-born 45-year-old braved the frozen Big Apple's winter bundled up in a green The North Face coat and Converse low-tops as he hauled several recyclable bags

Stroll: Joaquin later changed into a black peacoat as he continued to act opposite his 10-year-old co-star, who was wearing a green puffer coat and bright yellow sneakers

Profession: The A24 film's plot is unknown aside from Phoenix portraying a sound man due to the recording equipment he was hauling on set back on December 5

The only other credited castmembers are Top Gun: Maverick actor Brandon Rush and Empire songstress Khadija Emma Neumann, according to IMDb.

Mills' mystery movie marks Joaquin's first gig since playing tortured clown and comedian Arthur Fleck in Joker - the highest-grossing R-rated film of all time with $1.061B.

Phoenix will next compete for the best actor in a motion picture drama trophy at the 77th Golden Globe Awards, which air January 5 on NBC.

Meet Mike: The Oscar-nominated 53-year-old writer (R) previously helmed 20th Century Women (pictured in 2016), Beginners, and Thumbsucker

'One happy boy!' On December 4, little Woody's mother Vonda Barnes revealed that Mills gifted him a vintage guitar

Wife? Mike's movie also stars three-time Emmy nominee Gaby Hoffmann, a former child star last seen as Ali Pfefferman in the Amazon hit series, Transparent (pictured September 13)

Secrecy! The only other credited castmembers are Top Gun: Maverick actor Brandon Rush (L) and Empire songstress Khadija Emma Neumann (R), according to IMDb

The ex-Children of God cult member faces off against Ford v Ferrari's Christian Bale, Marriage Story's Adam Driver, The Two Popes' Jonathan Pryce, and Pain and Glory's Antonio Banderas.

The brother of the late River Phoenix is also up for the leading male actor trophy at the 26th Screen Actors Guild Awards, which air January 19 on TNT/TBS.

Joaquin will go head-to-head against Ford v Ferrari's Christian Bale, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood's Leonardo DiCaprio, Marriage Story's Adam Driver, and Rocketman's Taron Egerton.

Oscar buzz: Mike's mystery movie marks Joaquin's first gig since playing tortured clown and comedian Arthur Fleck in Joker - the highest-grossing R-rated film of all time with $1.061B

Who will win? Phoenix will next compete for the best actor in a motion picture drama trophy at the 77th Golden Globe Awards, which air January 5 on NBC

Awards season: The brother of the late River Phoenix is also up for the leading male actor trophy at the 26th Screen Actors Guild Awards, which air January 19 on TNT/TBS

Joker director Todd Phillips (R) told the LA Times: 'One day he magically showed up. He never said yes. He just one day showed up to a wardrobe fitting...It was an incredible partnership'

'It was a pursuit to get him because initially it feels like, "Ugh, comic book movie." Just the idea of it is something he wasn't so keen on pursuing,' Joker director Todd Phillips told the LA Times earlier this month.

'And even when I would explain to him it's not that, it kind of says that, but really we're doing this other thing, there was a little resistance.

'But the more I got to know him, the more I hung out with him, and we spent a lot of time talking about what the movie will look and feel like, and then one day he magically showed up. He never said yes. He just one day showed up to a wardrobe fitting...It was an incredible partnership.'