She's caused a buzz with the release of the chilling new trailer for forthcoming thriller, The Woman In The Window, which sees her star as an agoraphobic who becomes deeply entangled in the lives of her neighbours.

But it was all about family time for Amy Adams as she enjoyed a day of shopping with her daughter Aviana, nine, in Beverly Hills on Sunday.

The six-time Oscar-nominated actress, 45, looked as though she was having a ball as she giggled away while wrapping a protective arm around her little girl.

Girls' day out: Amy Adams shared a giggle with her daughter Aviana, nine, as they went shopping in Beverly Hills on Sunday amid buzz for her new movie The Woman In The Window

The Sharp Objects star looked casual in a black speckled polo-neck, teamed with blue jeans and leather ankle boots.

The mother-of-one wore her strawberry blonde locks pulled back from her face and protected her eyes from the Californian sun with a pair of retro-style tinted shades.

Aviana - who Amy raises with her husband, actor and painter Darren Le Gallo, 45 - stepped out in an oversize Stranger Things sweater, suggesting she is a fan of the 80s sci-fi drama.

The youngster teamed her slogan garment with patterned leggings and beige UGG boots, while accessorising with a pair of cute furry ear muffs.

Low-key: The six-time Oscar-nominated actress, 45, looked casual in a black speckled polo-neck and blue jeans, while Aviana stepped out in an oversize Stranger Things sweater

Amy and Darren met in an acting class in 2001, and began dating a year later when they collaborated on short film, Pennies.

The couple got engaged in 2008 and welcomed daughter Aviana two years later in 2010.

The pair had an extended engagement and said they were in no rush to get married, before exchanging vows in 2015 on a ranch just outside of Santa Barbara, California.

The actress said in an interview last year the couple decided to finally get married because Aviana 'wanted a family wedding'.

She added to Allure: 'We were going to do it the summer that I got The Fighter, and then we were going to do it the following year. There was always something. We talked about it again, and Aviana really wanted us to.'

Happy couple: The Sharp Objects star raises Aviana with her husband, actor and painter Darren Le Gallo, 45 (pictured together in September)

Amy's chilling new trailer for psychological thriller, The Woman In The Window, was released last week.

The agoraphobic drama from Atonement director Joe Wright has been adapted from a novel of the same by A.J. Finn, the pen name of writer and scamster Dan Mallory, whose antics were detailed in a New Yorker profile.

It will be a busy 2020 for the in-demand actress, with The Woman In The Window due for release on May 15, as well as forthcoming drama Hillbilly Elegy.

Elsewhere, Amy will appear in a new HBO project; an adaptation of the book The Most Fun We Ever Had, both she and Laura Dern signed on to executive produce.

She is also working on a new adaptation of famed novel, The Poisionwood Bible, and has signed on to lend her voice to Giselle in the animated movie Disenchanted, which follows on from her 2007 live action movie Enchanted.