President Donald Trump has signed off on nearly $1.4 trillion in spending that will keep the government funded through September 30, dodging the possibility of a shutdown ahead of what's expected to be a contentious election season.

The two bills signed on Friday will allocate $1.4 trillion: $738 billion to the military and $632 billion to non-defense agencies, marking increases over fiscal 2019 of $22 billion for the Pentagon and $27 billion for non-defense.

The spending measures, which will add roughly $400 billion to the deficit over 10 years, include money for the president's U.S.-Mexico border fence, pay raises for military and civilian federal workers, and federal funding for election security grants.

Included in the package is a provision that raises the federal minimum age to purchase tobacco to 21, up from the current age of 18. The new minimum age also applies to e-cigarettes and vaping cartridges.

President Trump is photographed signing the defense portion of the spending package, which officially creates the Space Force

The package includes $1.4 billion for barriers along the U.S.-Mexico border, the same amount lawmakers approved last year. Construction is seen in Arizona in October above

Trump then boarded Air Force One with Melania and Barron to head to Mar-a-Lago. He signed the civilian portion of the spending package on the plane, a spokesman said

The package includes $1.4 billion for barriers along the U.S.-Mexico border, the same amount lawmakers approved last year.

That amount far less than the $8.6 billion initially demanded by Trump, the fight over which led to the longest government shutdown in U.S. history earlier this year.

Trump signed the new defense spending bill in a public ceremony at Joint Base Andrews, and the civilian spending bill aboard Air Force One as he traveled to his Mar-a-Lago resort, where he will be celebrating Christmas and New Year's.

The defense portion officially establishes the Space Force as the nation's sixth branch of the military.

Trump marveled at the size of the spending package, noting that it was billions - 'that's with a B.'

'That's an all-time record in the history of our country,' he told the crowd of troops gathered. 'What's the good of a budget if you don't have the best military in the world.'

He remarked that it had been 70 years since a branch of the military had been created - the last being the Air Force under President Harry Truman.

(L-R) US General John W. Raymond, Ivanka Trump, Defense Secretary Mark Esper, US President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and Karen Pence cheer during a signing ceremony on S.1790, the 'National Defense Authorization Act for FY2020' at Joint Base Andrews

Both military members and civilian federal employees will see a 3.1% average pay raise in the new spending package. US service members are seen above in Afghanistan

'Think of that, we will create a brand new Ameriacn military service - that's such a momentous statement,' he said.

'It's a big moment,' Trump went on. 'That's a big moment and we're all here for it.'

'Space. There's going to be a lot of things happening in space. Because space is the world's newest war-fighting domain,' he added.

The package includes an average 3.1 percent pay raise for federal civilian workers and military members.

The massive spending measures were made public earlier this week and marked a note of bipartisanship just days after House Democrats impeached Trump.

The spending package headed off a repeat of last year's end-of-the-year impasse that led to a 35-day partial government shutdown.

That showdown stemmed from Trump's demand that Congress sign off on nearly $6 billion in funding for the border wall.

Hundreds of thousands of government workers were furloughed or forced to work without pay during the shutdown.

Trump skipped his holiday vacation and remained in Washington through the impasse.