She's gearing up for her first Christmas since divorcing her husband Jim Edmonds.

And now, Meghan King Edmonds, 35, is moving into her own home with their three children and stepping out for her son Hart's therapy sessions as he continues to develop his motor skills.

While out on Friday afternoon, the former Real Housewives of Orange County star was spotted outside of Hart's session who suffers from 'irreversible brain damage.'

Busy day: Meghan King Edmonds stepped out with her son Hart after another intense therapy session in Los Angeles on Friday afternoon. The little one has 'irreversible brain damage'

Slim: The mother of three showed off her slim figure while carrying her toddler back to the car

The busy mom stepped out in a denim jacket and black leggings that showed off her extremely thin figure as she juggled her toddler and her iPhone.

As she walked, she had a black bag flung across her arms as the little one pulled on the collar of her jacket.

During the training session, she showed off Hart's progress as he worked through CME therapy. This type of therapy is only offered in Chile and Napa Center in Los Angeles.

In her Instagram Stories, she explained that this therapy 'is what taught Hart how to take his first steps.'

On-the-go: The busy mom stepped out in a denim jacket and black leggings that showed off her extremely thing figure as she juggled her toddler and her iPhone

Stepping away: She stepped out for just a brief moment to snag a mirror selfie during Hart's therapy session

Doing good: She showed off the toddler working on what they call the 'shakey machine'

Onto the next: Next up the little one worked on some CME therapy

The mother of three - who also shares Aspen, aged three, and Hart's twin brother, aged one - was recently reunited with her kids as she moved into her new home.

During their time apart, the three children stayed with their estranged father in St. Louis, Missouri where had moved after it was announced that the couple would be divorcing.

But before, the kids headed back to the west coast, Jim took to his Instagram to share a photo of himself with this three toddlers writing: 'The littles are getting big. Headed to Cali to see mommy and get Hart a little bit more treatment.'

Trying his best: CME therapy was developed by a man in Chlii and the Napa Center is the only other place who offers this kind of treatment

Learning the ropes: Hart sat in the lap of his occupational therapist as he learned the ropes for the next activity

Back in November, the two announced that they would be going their separate ways following the alleged affair he had with the family's former nanny, Carly Wilson.

Both Carly and Jim have denied having any sort of relationship.

And while there is still a rift between the two, they are committed to co-parenting their children together.