Usman Khawaja likens a healthy headspace to a good cover drive.

'You have to practice a shot over and over again. It's like that with your mind, so that when something really serious happens you can try to deal with that scenario,' Khawaja explained.

'There's been times where I've thought I need a little break from cricket. I need to get away ... it happened a lot more when I was younger, I deal with it a lot better now.

'My personal experience is that a lot of issues come from anxiety. Looking too far ahead, worrying about the future.'

Usman Khawaja (pictured with his wife Rachel) has opened up about his mental health

Khawaja said he sometimes needed a break from cricket and said 'life can be tough'

Australian cricketers Glenn Maxwell, Nic Maddison, Will Pucovski, Sophie Molineux and Rachel Trenaman have all taken breaks this season to focus on their mental health.

Moises Henriques last year revealed his debilitating battle with depression.

Their circumstances and struggles vary but the response, which included that of the most powerful cricketer in the world Virat Kohli, has been overwhelmingly positive and supportive.

Cricket Australia and the players' union have both made mental health a priority.

'There's definitely been a change over the last two or three years. There's greater understanding but there's obviously still a way to go,' Khawaja told AAP.

'Cricket's a tough game. Life can be tough. You need help, you can't do everything yourself.

'It's a very important topic. As a batsman, the mind is almost the most important thing.'

Khawaja's brother Arsalan Tariq Khawaja (pictured) was arrested last year after allegedly trying to frame a colleague

The 33-year-old speaks about managing the dizzying highs and gutting lows of sport - and how the cricket community's understanding of and attitudes toward mental health has recently changed - with authority.

Khawaja's international career has been somewhat of a stop-start affair since an eye-catching Test debut at the SCG in 2011, but the past year has been particularly professionally challenging.

The left-hander was a national hero and the nation's best batsman when he salvaged a draw in Dubai last year, standing up in the absence of suspended superstars Steve Smith and David Warner.

Now, he is out of the national Twenty20, ODI and Test sides.

The veteran's World Cup dream was crushed by a hamstring injury on the eve of Australia's semi-final then he was axed during the Ashes; all in the space of four months spent living out of a suitcase in England.

Khawaja, who last year fronted a campaign to promote the importance of mental health, has also been dealing with his brother's arrest.

Arsalan Tariq Khawaja was arrested last December after allegedly trying to frame a colleague as a terrorist.

Speaking as he prepared to sink his teeth into a full Big Bash League season with Sydney Thunder, Khawaja described prayer as his form of meditation.

'I'm Muslim and religious to an extent, that's what keeps me grounded. That's my fallback and what puts perspective in my life, whether it's cricket or outside cricket,' he said.

'If things are going really bad, I feel it, but I try to stay even keel.'

The Queensland captain also highlighted how lucky he is to have such a strong support network.

'My mum and dad have always been absolutely great. I've been married for a few years and I talk to Rachel about everything, I lean on her massively,' he said.

Lifeline 13 11 14

beyondblue 1300 22 4636