She's one half of one of the biggest fashion power duos out there.

And Mary-Kate Olsen made sure to bundle up against the blustery New York City winter on Friday afternoon, when she was spotted leaving her office and heading home.

The designer and former actress, 33, is the twin sister of Ashley Olsen, her The Row business partner, and older sibling to Elizabeth Olsen, who continues the family craft of acting.

Cold: Mary-Kate Olsen made sure to bundle up against the blustery New York City winter on Friday afternoon, when she was spotted leaving her office and heading home

Mary-Kate looked elegant in a giant hunter green winter coat that hung off her petite 5ft2in frame, and adorned it with a colorful scarf around her neck.

She appeared to be wearing brown leather pants underneath, paired with a black top and black leather boots with heels.

Olsen carried a snakeskin handbag, also in black leather, as she got into the back of a large car.

While the sisterly pair are now celebrated fashion mavens, regularly credited for flaunting and starting various trends, they got their start as the viciously cute Michelle Tanner on the hit late '80s sitcom Full House.

Chic: Mary-Kate looked elegant in a giant hunter green winter coat that hung off her petite 5ft2in frame, and adorned it with a colorful scarf around her neck

On her way: Olsen carried a snakeskin handbag, also in black leather

From the success of that show, the pair were able to leverage their popularity into a small media empire that spawned 'The Adventures of Mary-Kate & Ashley' video series, as well as numerous film appearances.

Eventually, the sisters evolved and left acting behind in order to pursue careers in fashion, which happened thanks in part to the naturally high level of interest from fans and the public at large in their fashion choices as famous actresses.

After their first forays into the world of fashion design, which included a partnership with Wal-Mart, Mary-Kate and Ashley quickly climbed the ranks, associating themselves with brands such as Badgley Mischka and Toms Shoes before creating their own series of labels.

In 2015, when it was announced that a reboot series called Fuller House was in the works at Netflix, the Olsen twins showed little to no interest in participating, and that callous resistance has continued throughout the series' five-season run.

Dearly departed Michelle? The Olsen twins got their start in the spotlight as the youngest Tanner sibling on the sitcom Full House, but did not show any interest in even just a cameo in the rebooted series

And it seems producers now feel the same way, with the show's Candace Cameron Bure confirming that the twins weren't even invited to appear in the fifth and final season.

'We did not reach out to them,' she told TVline. 'It was very clear several seasons ago that they did not want to do it.'

Meanwhile fans have been speculating that their character Michelle may have actually been killed off, after analyzing a scene in the final season. During a family celebration at the Tanner house, Danny Tanner (Bob Saget) embraces two of his daughters, DJ and Stephanie. He then hugs their best friend, Kimmy Gibbler, and tells the trio 'it's so nice to have three daughters again.'

While he may simply be referring to Michelle's absence, fans have debated whether his words mean she died.

Classy sisters: After their first forays into the world of fashion design, which included a partnership with Wal-Mart, Mary-Kate and Ashley quickly climbed the ranks