She's godmother to Cheyenne Tozzi's one-year-old daughter, Dahlia.

And on Friday, Elle Macpherson took to Instagram to wish her model pal a happy 31st birthday.

The 55-year-old, who was famously nicknamed 'The Body' by Time Magazine in 1989, shared pictures of the pair throughout the years.

'A great mother with a beautiful spirit': Elle Macpherson (right), 55, shared a tribute to her model pal Cheyenne Tozzi (left), on her 31st birthday, in a number of Instagram posts on Friday

Taking to her official Instagram page, Elle posted a photo of the blonde beauties cosying up together.

She wrote in the caption: 'Happy birthday to my beautiful friend @cheyennetozzi. I've known her since she was 13 and now she's the mother of my god-daughter.'

Elle alerted her 490,000 followers to a link in which they can donate to Australian charity, United Women, in honour of Cheyenne's birthday.

Taking a trip down memory lane: The Australian supermodel posted a number of snaps to her Instagram Stories, of Cheyenne throughout the years

Precious: Elle also posted an adorable picture of Cheyenne with her one-year-old daughter Dahlia De La Lune (pictured). Elle is god-mother to little Dahlia

So far, top supporters include the duo's famous pals, Jodhi Meares and Jessica Hart.

Elle also shared photos of Cheyenne throughout the years to her Instagram Stories, including one with her adorable daughter Dahlia.

'Happy birthday to the mother of my god-daughter @cheyennetozzi love love love,' the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit veteran captioned the sweet snap.

Nothing but love: Another black and white photo of Elle and Cheyenne together, saw the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit veteran describing her as 'talented and heartfelt' in the caption

Alongside a final black and white photo of Elle and Cheyenne, Elle wrote: 'Love you. Happy birthday my beautiful, talented, heartfelt friend.

'You are the most funny, smart and tender-hearted girl. A great mum with a beautiful spirit and a rocking voice.'

Cheyenne revealed to Harper's Bazaar Australia in August last year, that Elle was the first person she called to share her baby news.

Support system: Cheyenne revealed to Harper's Bazaar Australia in August last year, that Elle was the first person she called to share her baby news: '[She was] pretty much the first person'

'[She was] pretty much the first person I called when I found out [I was pregnant],' she said.

'She's mentored me through so many things, so I rang her and was like [insert panic-happy screech].'

Cheyenne shares Dahlia De La Lune with her boyfriend, Brazilian model Marlon Teixeira, 28.