Tammy Hembrow is one of Australia's biggest fitness moguls, renowned for her pert derriere and gym-honed figure.

And on Saturday, the 25-year-old revealed the secrets to her incredible physique, as she completed a gruelling ab workout.

Wearing a black crop top and matching shorts that hugged her body, the bombshell did a series of ab-toning exercises and posted the videos to Instagram.

So that's how she does it! Tammy Hembrow revealed the secrets to her sensational figure on Saturday as she completed a gruelling ab workout

In the footage, Tammy is first pictured completing a set of alternating arm and leg raises while leaning on a floor mat.

She then focuses on her core strength as she gets into a plank position and pulls her knees towards her chest.

The mother-of-two also rested on her side and completed a number of hip-raising exercises.

Tammy then sat on her derriere and bent her arms while kicking her legs out from side to side.

Body sculpting: Wearing a black crop top and matching shorts, the mother-of-two did a series of ab-toning exercises and posted the videos to Instagram

Hot to trot! Tammy is one of Australia's biggest fitness moguls, renowned for her pert derriere and gym-honed figure

Look at her go! The bombshell then sat on her derriere and bent her arms while kicking her legs out from side to side

The Instagram model recently also revealed that she maintains her enviable frame by 'doing a lot of heavy weights.'

During an appearance on Studio 10 on Tuesday, she explained: 'You're not going to build any muscle if you are not doing leg weights.'

'I see a lot of girls doing cardio and this and that, it is not going to build any muscle really,' she added.

Feel the burn! During an appearance on Studio 10 on Tuesday, Tammy revealed she maintains her enviable frame by also 'doing a lot of heavy weights'

Impressive! When asked how heavy she goes with her weighted squats, the blonde shocked the panel by saying she could easily perform 60kg

When asked how heavy she goes with her weighted squats, the blonde shocked the panel by saying she could easily perform 60kg.

The beauty also hit back at accusations that her famous derriere has been artificially enhanced.

'I hate when people accuse me of doing that. I take such an offence to it because I've worked so hard and it makes me annoyed,' she told the hosts.