They met almost 20 years ago in a nightclub in Ibiza.

And Noel Gallagher and Sara MacDonald every inch the relaxed couple as they hosted their Christmas bash at Scott's restaurant in Mayfair on Friday.

The Oasis frontman, 52, looked dapper in a black polo neck which he wore underneath a smart leather jacket, while his publicist wife Sara, 47, stole the show in a fitted black mini dress.

Cool and collected: Noel Gallagher looked incredibly dapper in a leather jacket and polo neck as he hosted his Christmas party at Scott's in Mayfair on Friday

Sara made for a very leggy display in her outfit, which came complete with a thigh-skimming hem and plunging neckline that was adorned with black sequins.

She wore a pair of black barely-there heels that boasted a diamond cuff around the ankle and left her lightened locks down in drawn-out curls.

And Noel accessorised his all-black ensemble with a silver chain, while his hair was styled with in signature tousled look.

The pair were joined by actress Sienna Miller at the bash, who stepped out in a stylish sequinned green dress.

Stealing the show: Noel's wife Sara MacDonald made for a very leggy display in a thigh-skimming mini dress, while Noel favoured an edgy look that included a leather biker jacket

Look at me: Noel accessorised his all-black ensemble with a silver chain, while his hair was styled with in signature tousled look

Glam: She wore a pair of black barely-there heels that boasted a diamond cuff around the ankle and left her lightened locks down in drawn-out curls

Dapper: Noel looked dapper in his all-black ensemble of jeans, a high-neck top and a leather jacket

Noel and Sara's comes after his brother Liam hit out at her in October for allegedly stopping Noel from seeing him, even though he is 'desperate' to do so.

In a tweet the former Oasis frontman claimed his former band mate was was 'desperate to hang out' with his 'little bro'.

Hitting out at Sara, he then added: 'it's just your Mrs won't let ya.'

The Tweet read: 'We all have the ability to forgive n forget you’ve just got to want to and we all know your desperate to hang out with your little bro it’s just your Mrs won’t let ya oh well as you were LG x'

In the latest chapter of the siblings' decade-long feud, Liam tweeted again, addressing Noel's infamous remarks about Blur's Damon Albarn and Alex James.

Animated: The star put on an animated display as he posed for photos outside Scott's restaurant in Mayfair

Pals: Poppy, her husband James and Noel all pictured together outside the venue

Friends: The pair were joined by actress Sienna Miller at the bash, who stepped out in a stylish sequinned green dress

Trio: Liam and Sara also shared a taxi with Chloe Delevingne, 34, who sat in the middle of the couple

Laughing: Sara looked as though she was ready to leap out of her taxi as she arrived with Noel

Liam continued: 'What ever I said surely wasn’t as bad as what you said about Damon n Alex remember when you wished they catch aids n die your full of s**t Rkid you just ain’t got it anymore Bon voyage LG x'

In September, Noel branded his younger fan base 'f***ing idiots' for demanding to hear Oasis songs during his live shows with current band High Flying Birds.

The 52-year old has released three albums and numerous singles under the High Flying Birds moniker since abruptly disbanding the iconic Brit Pop band he led with younger brother Liam in 2009.