Prince Andrew's Dragons' Den-style Pitch@Palace initiative is being shut down as five directors of its international arm threaten to quit.

Martin Dunnett and Alex Johnston are reported to be gearing up to resign from Pitch@Palace Global to allow a 'fresh pair of eyes' to decide on a future for the non-profit, according to Sky News.

It is believed their resignations would be confirmed in filings in coming weeks.

The Duke's flagship project, Pitch@Palace CIC, which is based at Buckingham Palace and controlled by the Prince Andrew Charitable Trust, is also set to be closed down after trustees decided the scheme could not exist in the wake of the Epstein scandal.

Pitch@Palace has already been told that it will not be able to hold any future events at either Buckingham Palace or St James’s Palace as it no longer has any official household backing

The 35 businesses that sponsor Andrew's charity - and the companies now pulling out after BBC disaster Cutting ties KPMG Standard Chartered Aon Gravity Road Advertising Week Europe Bond University Melbourne's RMIT University Fondation Rideau Hall University of Wollongong Murdoch University Standing by Andrew Stelios Foundation Li Ka Shing Foundation Considering position AstraZeneca Barclays Yet to respond Bosch Air Asia Bank of China JD.com Tencent Business Horizon International Group InMotion Arm China Construction bank Hult business school Royal Academy of Engineering Halkin Ventures IMB Bank Woodside Tamkeen The Chosunilbo Khalifa Fund Fieldhouse IX

High-profile business sponsors KPMG, Standard Chartered and Inmarsat, a British satellite telecommunications company, have all said they will not renew their financial support for Pitch.

Private equity executive Dunnett and app developer and investor Johnston would become the fourth and fifth directors to quit in the wake of the Jeffrey Epstein scandal.

Last week, David Stern, 41, a German investor based in Hong Kong, was listed as having officially resigned from Pitch@Palace on December 10.

It follows the departure of fellow directors Mark Eaves and Hanadi Jabado on November 19, just three days after the broadcast of Andrew's disastrous Newsnight interview.

A senior source within the organisation told the Times that he was unsure why Mr Stern or Mr Eaves had quit or whether the duke himself would continue with Pitch@Palace.

'It's in flux,' the source said. 'It's for him to decide.'

Mr Stern is a serial investor who also has links to the royal family through St George's House, a networking organisation founded by the Duke of Edinburgh and based at Windsor Castle, the paper reports.

The source said Ms Jabado had resigned to concentrate on Pitch@Palace CIC, a 'community interest company' that she has served as a director since May 2015.

A source told the Telegraph: 'Pitch@Palace CIC will be wound down. The company belongs to the Prince Andrew Charitable Trust and the trustees met and decided to close it down.

'Pitch Global is going to carry on but because of the massive changes that have happened, three of the existing directors felt there was a need for a strategic review and they decided to step aside by resigning.'

The prince agreed to withdraw from public duty in the wake of the car crash TV appearance, but initially wanted to remain a figurehead for Pitch@Palace.

At the end of his disastrous Newsnight interview with Emily Maitlis said he planned to continue with Pitch@Palace and his other business schemes.

At least 23 organisations have either dropped the Duke or accepted his resignation, including the English National Ballet, the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and the Outward Bound Trust.

Prince Andrew posing for a Pitch@Palace event earlier this year

In the immediate fallout, one of the country's leading accountancy firms, KPMG, revealed it had stopped sponsoring Pitch@Palace to protect its reputation.

KPMG bosses decided to end the relationship last month due to 'unsavoury' issues stemming from the Duke's friendship with Epstein.

The firm was a founding partner and had paid up to £100,000 a year in sponsorship since 2014.