EastEnders spoilers reveal Mick Carter is set to suffer a major panic attack as his drunken wife Linda Carter goes missing on Christmas Day.

Preview pictures from the BBC soap see the Queen Vic landlord (played by Danny Dyer) clutching his chest, much to the horror of his mum Shirley and son Lee.

Mick then collapses to the floor in shock scenes as he struggles to cope with the latest set-back amid Linda's growing dependency on alcohol.

Shock: EastEnders spoilers reveal Mick Carter is set to suffer a major panic attack as his drunken wife Linda Carter goes missing on Christmas Day

In recent weeks, viewers have watched as Linda's (Kellie Bright) drinking problem continue to spiral out of control, with her behaviour looking set to take a toll on her husband's health.

During a dinner with Max Branning (Jake Wood) and Ruby Allen (Louisa Lytton) the previous night, Linda drinks excessively, leading her to make a harsh swipe at Ruby.

Taking action, Mick pours her wine down the sink causing a furious Linda to explode at him - only for her outburst to be witnessed by her young son Ollie.

Desperately ashamed and horrified, she grabs another bottle and heads out into the Square, where she continues drinking alone into the early hours.

Poor Mick: Preview pictures from the BBC soap see the Queen Vic landlord (played by Danny Dyer) clutching his chest, much to the horror of his mum Shirley and son Lee

The next day, with Linda nowhere to be seen, Mick struggles to keep everything together.

With the pressure proving too much for the landlord, he's left clutching his chest, leaving his family very concerned.

None more so than his eldest son Lee (Danny Boy Hatchard), who's back in Walford to spend Christmas Day with his loved-ones.

A source told The Mirror: 'This is not Mick’s first panic attack but it is the worst and it is left to Lee to come to the rescue.'

Problem: In recent weeks, fans have watched as Linda's (Kellie Bright) drinking problem continue to spiral out of control, with her behaviour looking set to take a toll on her husband's health

Too much: During a dinner with Max Branning and Ruby Allen the previous night, Linda drinks excessively, leading her to make a harsh swipe at Ruby

Speaking of Linda's problem, EastEnders boss Kate Oates said: 'She's got issues within the family.

'Mick was in prison, there's all the hangover from everything with Dean, a new diagnosis for Ollie in terms of his autism which is another challenge for her and she's not sure how to handle that so she's been self medicating.

'She’s found that wine O'Clock has come earlier and earlier and it’s suddenly become overwhelming.

'It’s a bit of a homage to Den and Angie. There’s been a classic tradition of drinking and toxic relationships in that pub.'

EastEnders airs these scenes Christmas Day at 9.30pm on BBC One.