They have been pals for several years.

But now, some two months after her split with longtime love Levi Meaden, it appears Ariel Winter's relationship with actor Luke Benward is heating up.

The pair were pictured walking arm-in-arm while heading out for a lunch date in the Toluca Lake neighborhood of Los Angeles on Friday.

Cozy: Ariel Winter and Luke Benward appear to be heating up as they are spotted walking arm-in-arm during a lunch date in the Toluca Lake neighborhood in Los Angeles on Friday

The Modern Family star, 21, showed off her petite curves in black skinny jeans that were tucked into a pair of black knee-high heeled boots.

She also donned an off-white Dunder Mifflin Paper Company Inc sweatshirt, which is a nod to the fictional paper sales business that was featured in the hit sitcom series, The Office, that aired on NBC from 2005 to 2013.

On this day, the Los Angeles native carried a stylish bold red purse and wore her raven tresses long with a part in the middle.

Casual-cool: The Modern Family star, 21, showed off her petite curves in black skinny jeans that were tucked into a pair of black knee-high heeled boots and a Dunder Mifflin Paper Company Inc sweatshirt; the fictional paper sales business was featured in the hit sitcom series, The Office, that aired on NBC from 2005 to 2013

Benward, 24, also opted for casual-cool in blue denim jeans and a light brown-patterned Hawaiian shirt.

He also wore dark brown boots and pulled his long locks back off of his face in a ponytail.

The Tennessee native is best known for his role as Bo in the Netflix film Dumplin' (2018), as well as for the films We Were Soldiers (2002) and Life Of The Party (2018).

Packing the PDA: Benward, 24, also opted for casual-cool in blue denim jeans, a light brown-patterned Hawaiian shirt and dark brown boots as he snuggled next to Winter

Speculation about Winter's split from Meaden after a three year romance surfaced in early October, although they hadn't been seen together in public since August, according to Us Weekly.

The former couple first started dating in November 2016, which led to them moving in together the following year when she was 19 and he was nearly 30.

Winter is currently on holiday break from Modern Family. The hit sitcom's 11th and final season premiered in late September and goes through until the final farewell episode that will likely be in May 2020.