A New Jersey homeowner has posted a controversial message in his Christmas light decorations, suggesting that billionaire sex offender Jeffrey Epstein didn't kill himself.

Kevin Gibson, who describes himself as 'not very political,' has been putting up topical and meme-heavy Christmas decorations for the last three years.

The Lacey, New Jersey, resident's latest display reads: 'These lights didn't hang themselves... and neither did Epstein.'

Kevin Gibson, who claims to be 'not very political,' has been putting up comically topical and meme-heavy Christmas decorations for the last three years

'My lights were boring me so I added a little razzle dazzle,' he wrote on Facebook about his latest display

Gibson took to Facebook to share his display, which also included a light up of the word 'Merica.'

'My lights were boring me so I added a little razzle dazzle,' he wrote on Facebook.

In an interview with NJ.com, Gibson explained that the 'Merica' portion of the display kicked off his tradition. He added a memorial to Harambe the gorilla, two years ago, before replacing the 'Merica' with a giant 'Trump.'

Gibson declared that he was 'just pushing buttons' when he chose to display the president's name.'

The Lacey, New Jersey, resident's latest display reads: 'These lights didn't hang themselves... and neither did Epstein.' The display also included a light up of the word 'Merica'

'People didn't like the Trump one very much,' he said. 'I thought it was funny.'

The house decorator said that while he's aware of how controversial this year's meme choice is, he has mostly received positive comments.

Epstein died August 10, while he was awaiting trial on charges in a Manhattan prison

'This year I've got mostly great feedback. Here and there somebody said it isn't appropriate for the holidays but you always have one,' Gibson said.

Epstein died August 10, while he was awaiting trial on charges in a Manhattan prison.

Epstein's death, at age 66, was ruled a suicide and came five weeks after his arrest on federal charges that he trafficked dozens of underage girls from at least 2002 to 2005. He had pleaded not guilty.

Conspiracy theories soon became the norm as many grew skeptical of the details surrounding his death.

Gibson appears to be a fan of the theories, asked if he believed Epstein killed himself and offering: 'Is Eli (Manning) starting this Sunday?'