Channel Nine announced this week that she will replace Sonia Kruger on Today Extra in 2020.

And Sylvia Jeffreys, 33, said she's 'delighted to be teaming up with the superb' David Campbell as co-host, in an Instagram post on Saturday.

Sharing a photo of the pair behind the desk at the network's studios in Sydney, the pregnant star said she'll back on-screen once she's 'out of the baby bubble.'

Line-up: Sylvia Jeffreys, 33, is 'delighted' to be co-hosting Today Extra with David Campbell, 46, (both pictured), after Channel Nine announced she will replace Sonia Kruger in 2020

'Could not be more delighted to be teaming up with the superb @davidcampbell73 on #TodayExtra next year. See you back on the [television box emoji] as soon as I'm out of the baby bubble!' Sylvia penned online.

The blonde beauty is expecting her first child with husband Peter Stefanovic, 38, and is currently in her third trimester.

On Wednesday, Channel Nine announced the new line-up for their revamped Today show in 2020.

Jumped ship: Sylvia is set to permanently replace Sonia (pictured) on Today Extra, after the 54-year-old TV veteran resigned following eight years on the show to return to Channel Seven

Bun in the oven: Sylvia is expecting her first child with husband Peter Stefanovic (pictured), 38, and is currently in her third trimester

The early morning weekday show will be hosted by Karl Stefanovic and former 60 Minutes reporter Allison Langdon.

Karl and Allison will be joined by Perth newsreader Tracy Vo, weatherman Tim Davies and former Sunday Night reporter Alex Cullen, who will present sport on the breakfast program.

Brooke Boney will continue her role as entertainment reporter when the new team debuts live on January 6, next year.

At the helm: The early morning weekday show will be hosted by Karl Stefanovic and former 60 Minutes reporter Allison Langdon (both pictured)

Welcome to the team! Karl and Allison will be joined by Perth newsreader Tracy Vo (pictured)

Fresh look: Tim Davies (L) will presenter the weather, and Alex Cullen (R) will look after sport

Sylvia is set to permanently replace Sonia on Today Extra, after the 54-year-old TV veteran resigned following eight years on the show to return to Channel Seven.

Sylvia will host Today Extra alongside David, 46, and will be covered by journalist Belinda Russell while she is on maternity leave next year.

Weekend Today will be hosted by Richard Wilkins and Rebecca Maddern, with Lara Vella covering Jayne Azzopardi as newsreader while she's also on maternity leave.

She's going nowhere! Brooke Boney (pictured) will continue her role as entertainment reporter on Today, with the new team debuting live on January 6 next year

New team: Weekend Today will be hosted by Richard Wilkins and Rebecca Maddern (both pictured)

Exciting times: Jayne Azzopardi (pictured) will present news on Weekend Today

Completing the Weekend Today line-up is former Kids' WB presenter Lauren Phillips.

Today's former team members will all be redeployed across the network.

Axed host Georgie Gardner will present weekend news, while Deborah Knight is set to host Afternoons on 2GB/4BC, which is owned by Nine.

Newsreader Tom Steinfort will rejoin 60 Minutes, however weather presenter Stevie Jacobs is leaving the network.

Out: Earlier this year, it was revealed that Deborah Knight (L) and Georgie Gardner (R) had been axed as Today hosts, after less than one year fronting the breakfast show