Andrew Brady has shared a lengthy Instagram post detailing how a year of travel has 'repaired a broken heart' following his split from Caroline Flack, who has been charged with assault.

Posting on Instagram just hours before Caroline was due to appear at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court in north London, Andrew wrote about about his 'highly toxic' relationship with the TV star, insisting that 'the truth will come out eventually'.

Caroline, who stepped down from her job as Love Island host last week, was charged with assaulting her boyfriend, Lewis Burton, 27, after an altercation at her north London home on December 12.

Ex: Andrew Brady, 29 has shared a lengthy Instagram post detailing how a year of travel has 'repaired a broken heart' following his split from Caroline Flack, 40, who will appear in court on Monday following her arrest for assaulting her boyfriend, Lewis Burton, 27

Andrew first spoke out on Caroline's arrest last week, uploading pictures of a confidentiality agreement, thought to be from when he and Caroline were engaged, with the caption: 'Abuse has no gender.'

On Monday, the Apprentice star shared a series of photos from his year travelling Australia, Bali and the Gili Islands, writing: 'I have had such an amazing year its actually made me grateful for 2018'.

After detailing each leg of his travels, Andrew told his followers: 'I realise how lucky and humbled I am that I was able to go on such an amazing adventure this year. As most of you were probably aware I was certainly in need of a change from 2018.'

'I didn’t quite anticipate what a positive change this would bring. A new hunger for life, a new found confidence and a “no s**ts given” attitude to things I would usually have panicked about before. I now face problems head on and don’t let things get to me like I used to.'

Court appearance: Caroline, 40, was pictured arriving at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court in north London on Monday

Charged: The star, who stepped down from her job as Love Island host last week, was charged with assaulting her boyfriend, Lewis Burton, 27, after an altercation at her north London home

He continued: 'I have repaired a broken heart and made it stronger in the process... I have had such an amazing year its actually made me grateful for 2018. Feeling as low as I did was the motivation I needed to rid myself of a highly toxic situation and leave on a one way flight to Australia. I am so grateful I left and got away.'

Andrew went on to reference Lewis Burton, who has stood by Caroline in the wake of her arrest, writing: 'However, I am deeply saddened to see my 2018 is looking rather similar to someone else’s 2019.'

'It appears there’s yet another victim of domestic abuse being silenced by a gagging order. and the bias right wing UK tabloids are once again covering up the facts with sob stories generated by a very intelligent PR team who’s connections go right to the top of these tabloids.

'You may be able to silence victims but a leopard never changes her spots. The truth will come out eventually.'

Reflecting: On Monday, the Apprentice star shared a series of photos from his year travelling Australia, Bali and the Gili Islands, writing: 'I have had such an amazing year its actually made me grateful for 2018'

Recovery: After detailing each leg of his travels, Andrew told his followers: 'As most of you were probably aware I was certainly in need of a change from 2018'

Andrew finished his post by calling 2019 'my recovery year.'

'Thank you for allowing me to be myself and to repair the bits that needed some work. Theres still work to do but I have the building blocks I need to continue to grow and develop. Thank you to every single person I have met either brief or friends for life as you have all had such a positive impact on my head and my heart. I don’t know what 2020 is going to bring but I know that if its half as good as 2019 I will be a very happy person.'

He concluded by posting the details of the National Domestic Abuse Hotline.

Former couple: Caroline became engaged to Andrew, who also starred on Celebrity Big Brother, after less than six months of dating in 2018 – but they split soon after

Speaking out: Andrew went on to reference Lewis Burton, writing: 'However, I am deeply saddened to see my 2018 is looking rather similar to someone else’s 2019'

The court heard on Monday that Caroline hit her boyfriend over the head with a lamp while he was sleeping after looking at text messages which made her think he was having an affair.

Caroline and Lewis were both allegedly covered in blood when police arrived at their flat in Islington, North London, on December 12 - with one officer describing the chaotic scene as 'like a horror movie'.

The ITV host was accused of 'going mad' and smashing a glass at 5am - with former tennis player Mr Burton saying in a 999 call that she 'tried to kill me' and called him an 'a***hole', Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court was told.

In court: The court heard on Monday that Caroline hit her boyfriend over the head with a lamp while he was sleeping after looking at texts which made her think he was having an affair

Lewis was said to have been 'almost begging the operator to send help' with his face 'covered in blood', while Caroline allegedly had two cuts to her wrist.

After being taken into custody, Flack – whom the court heard was 'manipulative' towards Burton and accused him of ruining her life - allegedly flipped over a table and had to be restrained on the ground by police.

Her boyfriend was allegedly left with 'significant head injuries' and claimed in the 999 call that Flack had 'cracked my head open', but the court heard Flack wants to 'spend time' with him over the Christmas and New Year period.

Flack broke down into floods of tears after she entered the court lobby this morning, and was sobbing as a friend supported her. She also cried again when she sat in the dock - and pleaded not guilty to common assault.

Support: Lewis Burton arrived at court shortly before Caroline. Paul Morris, defending, said Mr Burton was not a victim of assault and that he did not support the prosecution

The court gallery was full of observers and supporters, including Mr Burton. Flack appeared before District Judge Julia Newton and spoke only to confirm her date of birth and address. She gave her nationality as British.

Paul Morris, defending, said Mr Burton was not a victim of assault and that he did not support the prosecution. He said: 'Mr Burton has never supported this prosecution. He is not the victim, as he would say, he was a witness.'

But Katie Weiss, prosecuting, replied: 'Mr Burton is a victim, he received significant injury to his head.' Ms Weiss added that the Crown are pursuing the case. Flack sat in the dock with her hands to her mouth.

Flack broke down in tears as she sat in the dock. Holding her hand in front of her eyes, she sniffed. The judge gave Flack's legal team until January 20 next year to provide further evidence to the court.

Assault charge: Caroline and Lewis were both allegedly covered in blood when police arrived at their flat in Islington, North London, on December 12

Mr Morris continued: 'He would not suggest that the injuries are significant in the way the prosecution submit.' Ms Weiss said the trial would use body-worn footage from the police officers at the scene and a 999 call.

Flack's solicitor applied to have a bail condition banning her from talking to Mr Burton lifted. Mr Morris said: 'They had been in a relationship all of this year and he appears in court today to support her and they remain a couple.

'She wants to spend time with her partner. If the conditions were lifted there would be no concerns. It's not an irrelevant point, it's Christmas, it's New Year, she's suffered enough.'

999: The ITV host was accused of 'going mad' and smashing a glass at 5am - with former tennis player Mr Burton saying in a 999 call that she 'tried to kill me'

MailOnline revealed last week that Andrew reached out to Caroline's boyfriend Lewis by text in the wake of her arrest.

The former Apprentice star offered his support to Lewis, 27, and messaged the model's phone, saying: 'I'm sure this is just the tip of the iceberg.'

But Lewis responded to Andrew's text telling him to 'stay out of his business' – just days after Caroline, 40, was arrested and charged with assault at her north London home.

A source close to Andrew told MailOnline: 'Andrew wanted to be there for Lewis.

'Abuse has no gender': Last week, Andrew uploaded pictures of a confidentiality agreement, thought to be from when he and Caroline were engaged

'He text him saying if he wanted to chat then he'd be open to talking as he "knows what it's like"... but he was also keen to quiz Lewis on whether he'd signed a non-disclosure agreement.

'Lewis replied telling him to stay out of their business and made clear he'd not been asked to sign any documents.'

A week ago, Andrew uploaded pictures of a confidentiality agreement, thought to be from when he and Caroline were engaged, with the caption: 'Abuse has no gender.'

MailOnline can reveal that Andrew was not paid to sign the document and seemed happy enough to do so at the time.

Quit: Caroline revealed days after her arrest that she won't be fronting the winter edition of the ITV2 dating series in January with her friend Laura Whitmore revealed as her replacement

A source added: 'Andrew is the only boyfriend of Caroline's that has been asked to sign an NDA. She wasn't even fussed about him signing it.

'But Caroline was urged to take some precautions by friends and family that felt her romance with the ex-Celebrity Big Brother star was moving too quickly.'

Caroline became engaged to Celebrity Big Brother star Andrew last year after less than six months of dating – but they split soon after.

Caroline shared an emotional and unsettling post on Instagram on Sunday, days after stepping down from hosting Love Island over her recent assault charge.

The TV presenter, 40, took to her Instagram Stories to share a post in which she declared that she was going through the 'worst time of [her] life' and didn't know who to trust.

New host: The Irish beauty will host ITV's AfterSun spin-off series with her boyfriend Iain Lee, 31, (pictured in August) as well as the main show

In white text on a black background, she wrote: 'This is the worst time of my life. I don’t kno where to go to. Where to look. Who to trust. Or who I even am.' [sic]

When contacted by MailOnline, representatives for Caroline declined to comment.

The media personality broke her silence earlier in the week as she revealed she won't be fronting the winter edition of the ITV2 dating series in January, with her pal Laura Whitmore standing in as her replacement.

The star told her social media followers on Tuesday: 'There have been a significant number of media reports and allegations in regard to my personal life.

'While matters were not as have been reported I am committed to co-operating with the appropriate authorities and I can't comment further on these matters until the legal process is over.

Upsetting: Caroline took to her Instagram Stories to share a post in which she declared that she was going through the 'worst time of [her] life'

'However Love Island has been my world for the last five years, it's the best show on telly. In order not to detract attention from the upcoming series I feel the best thing I can do is stand down from Series 6.

'I want to wish the incredible team working on the show a fantastic series in Cape Town.'

Caroline continued: 'And on a really personal level. I have never experienced such kindness and love in my whole life.

'Not just from friends and family who are always the greatest but also from total strangers who send messages to me offering help and understanding... Please know that I see them and my boyfriend Lewis. I love you x.'

An ITV spokesperson told MailOnline shortly after her post: 'ITV has a long standing relationship with Caroline and we understand and accept her decision.

'We will remain in contact with her over the coming months about future series of Love Island.'