Kim Kardashian West is giving a glimpse inside her family's lavish Christmas celebration.

On Friday, the 39-year-old reality star took to her Instagram Stories to share her delicately wrapped gifts for her family.

'West Holiday wrapping this year!' she wrote in the story showing off a pile of the cream-colored gifts featured a twist knot of fabric on top.

Tis the season: Kim Kardashian took to her social media to share her family's wrapping paper of choice this year. On Friday, the star debuted a creamy velvet wrapping style for this year's gifts

'Each year every family member picks a color and vibe so we know who the gifts are from. This year we chose creamy velvet!'

The small pile featured numerous presents wrapped in the sack-style design as Kim boasted about the brilliant idea.

Kim's holiday cheer comes as she faces criticism for her unusually dark skin for a photoshoot.

Lavish gifts: 'Each year every family member picks a color and vibe so we know who the gifts are from. This year we chose creamy velvet!' she wrote on her Instagram Story

The shoot for 7Hollywood magazine featured the Skims founder in a black slimming dress while dripping in diamonds as many say she is 'attempting to look like a black woman.'

'It's the lighting that makes her look darker in this specific image,' a source close to the Kardashian member told Page Six.

'There are multiple covers and images from this shoot where the lighting looks more natural. People are so quick to find the negative in everything and also often forget that she is of Armenian descent.'

Details: The packages were all wrapped in a beige fabric that match the aesthetic of the Kardashian-West family home

'Would you please stop with the blackface it's ridiculous to say [at] least,' one user commented on the photo.

'She look black in that 2nd photo … hmmm here she go again.' another quipped up.

But this isn't the first time the mother-of-four has been accused of crossing the line.

Backlash: The Skims founder is receiving major backlash for her shoot for 7Hollywood magazine where she is pictured with darker skin

Back in 2017, during a Jackie Kennedy-themed photoshoot for Interview Magazine with her daughter North West after some said she was darkened her skin tone during that shoot as well, as she posed as the late First Lady.

For the issue, Kim dressed up in a handful of classic pieces inspired by Jackie, as the headline referred to her as 'America's New First Lady.'

Kim has yet to respond to backlash regarding either incident.

The Wests: Earlier in the day, she shared this photo of herself and Kanye West hanging out on a plot of land