2019 had its fair share of memorable moments captured on video.

As the decade comes to a close, Daily Mail Australia brings you some of the most talked about video clips in Australia for the year.

10. Kerri-Anne Kennerley called a 'racist' for comments on protesters

Controversial television host Kerri-Anne Kennerley came to verbal blows with fellow presenter Yumi Stynes during a Studio 10 panel in January about people protesting to change the date of Australia Day.

Stynes called Kerri-Anne racist for her comments about protesters, who have branded the anniversary of the arrival of the British First Fleet in Port Jackson 'Invasion Day'.

9. Off-duty police officer stones a wombat to death

Disturbing footage emerged in October of off-duty police officer Waylon Johncock stoning a terrified wombat to death and laughing about it on South Australia's Eyre Peninsula.

Despite being quickly condemned by all sides, he did not face any charges or disciplinary action after police found he had an 'appropriate permit to hunt wombats for food' and was engaging in traditional Aboriginal hunting practices.

8. Prince Harry and Meghan reveal baby Archie to the world

People around the globe rejoiced as the new British royal golden couple, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle finally showed the world their newborn son, Archie Harrison Mountbatten-Windsor (born 6 May 2019).

The Duke of Duchess of Sussex chose not to give their child a title in accordance with their wish that he grow up as a private citizen.

7. MAFS' Jessika Power and Dan Webb break up on live TV

Throughout its run, this year's season of Nine's Married At First Sight was a consistent ratings winner, due in no small part to its big personalities and bigger controversies.

MAFS couple Daniel Webb and Jessika Power were still together at the conclusion of the series, but it all began to fall apart when Dan was left horrified after watching footage of Jess propositioning co-star Nic Jovanovic during the season finale.

Shortly after the reunion episode aired, the embattled couple argued over the incident during a live interview on 9Life's Talking Married in April.

Their relationship was over within days, leaving Cameron Merchant and Jules Robinson and Michael Brunelli and Martha Kalifatidis as the only surviving couples from the 'social experiment'.

6. Exhausted Tammy Hembrow caught napping after Coachella

This wasn't the glamorous image Australian Instagram model Tammy Hembrow was trying to present while attending the Coachella music festival in Indio, California for the first time in April.

The video, shared to Instagram by LA-based musician Mitch, shows Tammy, 24, slumped over in a chair and snoring as she rests her head on her right knee.

The mother-of-two later joked about the incident, telling one follower: '[I'm] just living my best life. People need to chill.'

5. Man films himself on tirade against cyclists for not using bike path

Thomas Harris, 28, was driving down Swamp Road, between Dunmore and Jamberoo on NSW's south coast, on Australia Day, when he came across the two cyclists using the road rather than the bike path running next to it.

The furious driver filmed himself veering onto the bike path to hurl abuse at the cyclists hogging the road.

Although some social media users praised his actions, the riders were later revealed to be off-duty police officers, and Harris was fined $1,250 and lost 16 demerit points.

4. Cyrell throws her drink at Martha on MAFS

The drama on Married at First Sight reached new heights in March as 'Cyclone' Cyrell Paule wreaked havoc at the reunion dinner party when she threw a glass of red wine at her arch rival Martha Kalifatidis, staining her glamorous white dress.

The explosive trailer released before the episode also teased 'villain' Ines Basic crying for the first time on camera and emotional confrontations between the couples.

3. Female jogger caught on camera defecating outside Roxy's office

In October, Roxy Jacenko shared shocking videos showing a female jogger defecating outside her Sweaty Betty PR Sydney office in broad daylight.

Despite a nationwide search for the perpetrator - with some pointing the finger at celebrities such as Jackie O and even Roxy herself - the mysterious poo jogger was never brought to justice.

2. Tones and I performs live at AFL Grand Final

New Australian singer-songwriting Tones and I has had a stellar year, going from unknown to record-breaking artist.

Her quick rise led the former busker to perform live in September at the MCG before the AFL Grand Final between the Richmond Tigers and the Greater Western Sydney Giants.

The pre-show performance divided opinion, with some calling it 'a bigger disaster than Meat Loaf'.

Despite the criticism, her success continued, and she went on to clean up at the ARIA Awards.

1. Kyle Sandilands angers Christians with comments about the Virgin Mary

Poll Which do you think is the most memorable video of 2019? Kerri-Anne Kennerley v Yumi Stynes Police officer stones wombat Baby Archie Jessika Power and Dan Webb Tammy Hembrow caught napping after Coachella Tirade against cyclists Cyrell throws her drink at Martha Poo jogger Tones and I Kyle Sandilands on the Virgin Mary Which do you think is the most memorable video of 2019? Kerri-Anne Kennerley v Yumi Stynes 4 votes

Police officer stones wombat 29 votes

Baby Archie 14 votes

Jessika Power and Dan Webb 1 votes

Tammy Hembrow caught napping after Coachella 0 votes

Tirade against cyclists 1 votes

Cyrell throws her drink at Martha 3 votes

Poo jogger 7 votes

Tones and I 0 votes

Kyle Sandilands on the Virgin Mary 6 votes Now share your opinion





Radio shock jock Kyle Sandilands caused outrage in September when he made 'offensive' comments with co-host Jackie O about Jesus's mother, the Virgin Mary.

He ridiculed the idea of the Immaculate Conception by describing Mary as a liar who got knocked up 'behind a camel shed'.

The comments sparked a backlash from religious communities and the KIIS radio host apologised.