Temporary visa holders will need to update their driving licences under sweeping changes to the system.

New driving laws, which became effective last month, require all non-permanent visa holders to get a Victorian drivers licence within 6 months of arriving in the state.

The new laws mean overseas residents will be unable drive unless they update their licences.

International drivers now only have 6 months to obtain a Victorian licence on a non-permanent visa

Those already living in Victoria on a temporary visa, will have until the 29th May 2020 to obtain a valid drivers licence, if they don't already have one.

Before the new regulations, the law required permanent visa holders to obtain a licence within six months of beginning their residency.

Those on non-permanent visas were able to drive without one, providing they had a valid licence from their home country.

The change will affect not only the internationals, but also their employers.

It is essential that bosses ensure anyone they hire has not resided in Victoria for more than 6 months before employing them to drive on an international licence.

Failure on behalf of either the driver or their employer to comply with new regulations could see them charged. It is a serious offence to drive unlicensed, or allow someone to do so.

The Government have implicated the new regulations to tackle dangerous driving

Despite tightening regulations for international drivers, statistics show they are less likely to be involved in high-risk driving behaviors like drink-driving and speeding than Victorian drivers.

The Victorian Government said that the message was clear - 'swap over your licence within 6 months or become unlicensed.'

In Victoria, if you're a fully qualified driver over the age of 26, you are not actually required to provide a driving licence.

But if stopped by police, drivers do need to provide some form of ID, so carrying a licence is recommended as the fine is $155 for failing to provide ID.

The Government have also introduced an intensive to improve road safety.

'A 12-month good behavior bond' will see drivers rewarded in the absence of any serious driving offence, such as excessive speeding and drink or drug driving, resulting in suspension or cancellation, even if demerit points are not incurred.

Despite the new laws cracking down on internationals with temporary visas there is a long list of 43 countries that are exempt from these regulations.

The Department of Transport for the Victorian State Government said these countries either met or exceeded the standards required in Australia.

These Countries include the UK, USA, Germany, France, Switzerland and many more. (See below.)

Countries exempt from testing under new regulation Austria, Germany, Isle of Man, Norway, Belgium, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Canada, Guernsey, Japan Singapore, Croatia, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Jersey, Spain, Denmark, Ireland, Malta, Sweden, Finland, UK, Netherlands, Switzerland, France, USA, Luxembourg, Bulgaria, Hong Kong, (must be held for a minimum of 12 months), Lithuania, Slovenia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, South Africa, Republic of Cyprus, Republic of Korea (South Korea), Romania, Taiwan, Estonia, Latvia, Slovakia and Serbia.

The new licence regulations follow a pattern of change in Australia, beginning in October 2019 as it was suggested physical copies of drivers licenses could be scrapped.

The change was announced in the New South Wales in October and 14,000 digital licences are already being used in a trial across the state.

The programme has been extended to all citizens state wide and sees Digital driver's licences displayed on holders' smartphones, protected by a pin number.

NSW Minister for Customer Service Victor Dominello said people were already using their smartphones as wallets, and so it made sense for digital driver's licences to be introduced.

However, during the trial it is essential drivers also carried a physical copy to account for dead batteries or cracked screens.

Drivers can opt in or out of using the digital licence and must only use it in a vehicle when asked to do so by police.

It is unknown whether other states will follow NSW's lead.