They tied the knot in a star-studded winter wedding in London on the 20 December 2015.

And Christine Lampard wished her husband Frank Lampard a happy anniversary as she marked the couple's fourth year of marriage on Instagram on Friday.

The Loose Women host, 40, shared a sweet throwback snap of the couple on their big day as she gushed over her football manager other half, 41.

Congratulations: Christine Lampard wished her husband Frank Lampard a happy anniversary as she marked the couple's fourth year of marriage on Instagram on Friday

Alongside the snap of the pair outside their stunning wedding venue, Christine wrote: 'Four years ago today I married my soulmate. You’re the best husband and daddy we could ever wish for. Happy Anniversary @franklampard.'

The sweet post was flooded with messages of congratulations from Christine's showbiz pals and fans alike.

The post also saw the happy couple posing with their bridesmaids Luna, 14, and Isla, 12, from his marriage to Elen Rivas.

Frank and Christine have since welcomed a daughter of their own, Patricia, 15 months.

Wedding day: The Loose Women host, 40, shared a sweet throwback snap of the couple on their big day as she gushed over her football manager other half, 41

Christine recently discussed her 'lovely' wedding on Loose Women, telling the panel that she 'felt different the second she got married'.

The loved-up couple wed at St Paul’s Church in London, before heading to The Arts Club in Mayfair to party.

The Irish beauty said: 'I felt different the second I got married, something in my mind changed...

'Even the next day I remember we woke up and said "Oh my God. We're Mr and Mrs", when we finally got round to doing it, it's the best thing ever. It was just such a lovely special day for all of us.'

On the incredible big day Christine wore a stunning gown by British designer Suzanne Neville, while Frank donned a black Thom Sweeny suit with a bow-tie.

Stars including Holly Willoughby, Ant and Dec and Phillip Schofield all joined them on the big day as they cemented their love after meeting in 2009.

It comes as Christine recently revealed that she and husband Frank met at the Pride Of Britian awards ten years ago.

Happy couple: Christine recently discussed her 'lovely' wedding on Loose Women, telling the panel that she 'felt different the second she got married'

The TV personality admitted she and Frank were not meant to be at the awards the night they met.

Speaking on Lorraine, Christine said: 'It’s a strange one it is because 10 years ago that we met at them, it was one of those nights that neither of us were meant to go to.

'It was a last minute thing for him and I arrived at the awards late because of work. We were sat on tables next to each other.'

New feeling: The Irish beauty said: 'I felt different the second I got married, something in my mind changed...'

Christine added that Piers Morgan got some credit for introducing her to Frank as he 'did do an introduction', and joked: 'He was there at that moment so I can’t actually take that away from him.'

The TV personality went on to gush over Frank's skills as a father to Patricia, as she praised: 'He is very good, he has to be directed a little bit, I suppose, but he's great. He's so brilliant with her.'

She also added that their little one has 'none of my DNA in her' except her curly hair, and added: 'the rest is like daddy, everything else.'