Former model Brigitte Nielsen and her mother Hanne donned matching pink outfits for lunch at Joan's On Third in Los Angeles on Friday.

Just one look at the floral-clad librarian and you can tell exactly where the Danish 56-year-old inherited her statuesque 6ft1in stature.

Brigitte (born Gitte) perfectly matched her pink baseball cap to her pink velour jacket and capri sweats, which she paired with flip-flop sandals.

Family bonding: Former model Brigitte Nielsen and her mother Hanne donned matching pink outfits for lunch at Joan's On Third in Los Angeles on Friday

Amazons! Just one look at the floral-clad librarian and you can tell exactly where the Danish 56-year-old inherited her statuesque 6ft1in stature

Nielsen was toting a salad to-go and a Gucci purse as she headed back to her car.

The ex-wife of Sylvester Stallone flashed her best Hollywood smile while wearing large sunglasses over her make-up free face.

Missing from the mother-daughter bonding outing was Brigitte's fifth husband Mattia Dessì, with whom she has 18-month-old daughter Frida.

Nielsen - who had her eggs frozen age 40 - discussed her 'miracle' pregnancy on Thursday while guest co-hosting The Talk for the 16th time.

Blush: Brigitte (born Gitte) perfectly matched her pink baseball cap to her pink velour jacket and capri sweats, which she paired with flip-flop sandals

Designer bag: Nielsen was toting a salad to-go and a Gucci purse as she headed back to her car

Wave: The ex-wife of Sylvester Stallone flashed her best Hollywood smile while wearing large sunglasses over her make-up free face

Ladies who lunch! Missing from the mother-daughter bonding outing was Brigitte's fifth husband Mattia Dessì, with whom she has 18-month-old daughter Frida

'There's a lot of people that thought I was lying about things. For example, my pregnancy at 54,' the Creed II actress said on the CBS talk show.

'I worked very hard at trying to get pregnant. But what was very sad when it finally came out was the fact that the [press] said I had put a fake bump on there so I could attract attention to myself. So that was very depressing.'

Before her two stints in rehab, Brigitte admitted she 'dragged' down her four adult sons due to her addictions.

'I smoked a lot and drank a lot in my life. I, at the time, called it self-medicating but I was addicted to it,' the platinum blonde explained.

Daytime gig: Nielsen - who had her eggs frozen age 40 - discussed her 'miracle' pregnancy on Thursday while guest co-hosting The Talk for the 16th time

The Creed II actress said on the CBS talk show: 'There's a lot of people that thought I was lying about things. For example, my pregnancy at 54' (pictured in 2018 with daughter Frida)

She added: 'I worked very hard at trying to get pregnant. But what was very sad when it finally came out was the fact that the [press] said I had put a fake bump on there so I could attract attention to myself. So that was very depressing' (pictured in 2018 with husband Mattia Dessì)

'I remember my selfish, idiotic ideas I dragged people down with me and I did that to my kids and it was a devastating time in my life. So I hope for everybody that they reach out, get treatment.

'And for sure, when I look back I know that road is gone. Don't take that road down to misery. So yes, I've definitely learned something. Everybody, don't be afraid of your mistakes, but do something about it and get better. This is always my advice.'

Despite her road to sobriety, Brigitte felt she missed her calling as a professional singer, saying: 'In my next life I'll be a rock star.'

Acting-wise, Nielsen last played Ezilda in Katerina Gorshkov's Outward Bound-style lesbian drama The Experience, which was released via VOD/DVD last month.

'I did that to my kids': Before her two stints in rehab, Brigitte admitted she 'dragged' down her four adult sons due to her addictions (pictured on August 25 with sons Raoul and Aaron)

The platinum blonde explained: 'I remember my selfish, idiotic ideas I dragged people down with me...it was a devastating time in my life...Everybody, don't be afraid of your mistakes, but do something about it and get better. This is always my advice'