Debbie McGee has admitted she had fears over whether she'd be able to dance in this year's Strictly Come Dancing Christmas special, following her cancer battle.

The 61-year-old had two lumps removed from her breast in January, earlier this year, and was forced to take a four-month break from exercise following the surgery.

According to The Sun, Debbie said she feared whether she would be able to dance like she used to on her first day back at rehearsals for the show, but now hopes that by taking part, she can inspire other women in a similar situation by taking part.

Worries: Debbie McGee has admitted she had fears over whether she'd be able to dance in this year's Strictly Come Dancing Christmas special, following her breast cancer surgery

Debbie is set to star in Strictly's Christmas special this year alongside the likes of Mark Wright, Gemma Atkinson, Richard Arnold and Joe Sugg.

She has been partnered up with Strictly's 2018 winner Kevin Clifton, who won the series with his now girlfriend Stacey Dooley, and admits so far, training for the special has been 'easy and fun'.

Debbie first appeared on Strictly Come Dancing in 2017 alongside Giovanni Pernice and reached the final, but was beaten to the glitterball trophy by Scottish actor Joe McFadden.

Exciting: The 61-year-old is set to star in Strictly's Christmas special this year, with partner Kevin Clifton (above) alongside the likes of Mark Wright, Gemma Atkinson and Joe Sugg

And faced with the prospect of taking to the ballroom floor once more, Debbie admits she was nervous over whether she'd be able to dance, following her surgery at the beginning of the year.

'I had four months where I couldn't do any exercise... even the side I'm dancing is the side I had the cancer.

'The first day I was thinking, "Now I'll know if I can really do this or not," but [so far] I haven't felt anything.'

Debbie added that she hopes by taking part in the special it will help to inspire other women who have gone through a similar situation.

'I want them to know whatever happens you can get back to what you know - I always believed that,' Debbie said.

Reflecting on her own experience, she added: 'Everything that's happened this year makes me appreciate my life more.'

While Debbie has been given the go-ahead to take part in Strictly by her oncologist, she has been advised not to perform any lifts while on the show.

Speaking to Weekend magazine, Debbie candidly spoke about her cancer battle and her decision to seek a second opinion when faced with the prospect of surgery.

She said: 'I was very lucky because I had a pre-cancer known as DCIS [ductal carcinoma in situ] which can either develop into full-blow cancer or might never do anything.'

Bouncing back: Debbie had two lumps removed from her breast in January, after being diagnosed with a pre-cancer known as DCIS (ductal carcinoma in situ)

Former ballet dancer Debbie explained the first surgeon she spoke with had wanted to perform a full mastectomy, but after feeling 'uncomfortable' she decided to seek out a second opinion.

'The second surgeon took the two lumps out with minimal cutting and I haven't been left with any scars. I have regular checks and I've just been told I don't have to back for three months,' she said.

Debbie's first appearance on Strictly two years ago came just over 18 months after her husband of 28 years, magician Paul Daniels, died following an incurable brain tumour.

While she enjoyed every minute of her time on the BBC series, Debbie admits it had been bittersweet.

'The sad part is that Paul never got to see me doing Strictly. He always supported me in whatever I wanted to do, ' she claimed. 'He was my biggest fan.'