A Mexican man breaks down his campsite in a park in Ciudad Juarez not far from the bridge over the Rio Grande

In muddy makeshift camps in the Mexican border city of Ciudad Juarez, more than 1,000 migrants had waited for weeks for a chance to request asylum in the United States, enduring cold nights and long days of uncertainty.

Frustrated, many are giving up and clearing out.

Authorities say as of last week, there were still about 1,400 migrants, most of them from southwestern Mexico, holding out hope under tents and tarps not far from the Rio Grande.

A girl from Guerrero State warms her hand over the campfire in her family's campsite in Chamizal Park in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico

But on Thursday, only about 700 remained. The others grew tired of the near-freezing temperatures at night and the seemingly fruitless quest to be heard by US officials.

Local associations convinced several families to head to shelters or hotels when the mercury started to plummet.

Some instead made their way across the river, without any idea if they would succeed.

A woman from Guererro State who is in charge of the "ficha," or the list system used for asylum seekers waiting to cross into the US, gathers money to pay for newly issued cards

And still others opted to remain -- they are afraid to lose their place on the murky wait list system they themselves created to convince US border agents to take them in order of their arrival.

"They won't let us proceed unless we hand them our slips to show them we have indeed been waiting," said Rosa, who keeps up the list on a daily basis.

A man walks with his daugher at an asylum seekers camp near the Zaragoza bridge in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico

Every night, the men and women at the camp keep watch on the comings and goings on the bridge crossing the Rio Grande -- the natural, international border -- to make sure new arrivals don't jump the queue.

- 'The cartels threatened us' -

This man from Mexico's Guerrero state says he is fleeing cartel violence

According to a survey recently led by several universities in northern Mexico, 60 percent of displaced people in camps wait their turn in tents, but more than a quarter are sleeping in the open air.

Many migrants say they are fleeing violence in their hometowns.

"The cartels threatened us and took our land," said one man from Guerrero state.

A baby doll is among the belongings left by those migrants who have abandoned the border camp

"At first, they asked us for money," he explained. "But when we could no longer pay, they took our house. They gave us two weeks" to get out, he added.

Officials in Ciudad Juarez -- once known as the "murder capital of the world" -- are trying to be flexible about the influx of migrants.

"We understand that US authorities administratively can't process all of these requests," said Enrique Valenzuela, who works for a Chihuahua state agency tasked with local population issues.

"Most of these people are alleged victims in some way," he said.

The remnants of campsites where families from the Mexican state of Michoacan had been camped are seen in Chamizal Park in Ciudad Juarez

"They say that they either have been threatened for some reason -- themselves or their families -- or they have either lost a loved one or a neighbor," he added.

"We cannot impede their entrance and it would be wrong for us to do so."