She's known for her incredible figure, being a bikini model and entrepreneur.

And on Friday, Natasha Oakley took to Instagram to show off her stunning physique and washboard abs as she enjoyed a night out in Bondi, Sydney.

The 29-year-old Australian beauty could barely contain her ample assets as she squeezed into a racy black crop top with cut-out detailing.

Dare to bare! Natasha Oakley could barely contain her ample assets in a racy cut-out crop top as she enjoyed a night out in Bondi on Friday

She completed her look with a black skirt which featured a daring thigh-split and a pair of gold earrings.

Natasha styled her golden locks in waves which fell effortlessly by her shoulders and wore a neutral palette of makeup consisting of rosy cheeks and a nude lip.

In one post, the blonde beauty shared a video flaunting her ensemble as she walked to the car and wrote: 'Headed to my fave dinner spot with my fave people (sic).'

Gorgeous! Natasha styled her golden locks in waves which fell effortlessly by her shoulders and wore a neutral palette of makeup consisting of rosy cheeks and a nude lip

Friends: She also shared snaps with her friends while out, including with Sydney makeup artist to the stars, Max May (pictured), with the group heading to Totti's and Bondi Icebergs

In another photo, the model posed in front of a window while holding a glass of wine and looking into the distance.

She also shared snaps with her friends while out, including with Sydney makeup artist to the stars, Max May, with the group heading to Totti's and Bondi Icebergs.

Last month, the LA-based model and swimwear designer opened up about her workout schedule and revealed her diet secrets.

Beach babe! She's known for her incredible figure, being a bikini model and entrepreneur

Speaking to The Daily Telegraph, Natasha said she exercises around four times a week and doesn't follow a diet plan.

'I've been very into Pilates with my trainer Jacqui Kingswell at Body Love Pilates. I'm working out four or five times a week and I feel like I've finally found what works for my body,' she told the publication.

'I generally have a healthy diet and crave healthy food. I'm pescetarian or sometimes vegetarian and sometimes vegan but I don't eat meat,' she explained.

She said she likes to eat 'fresh food,' but sometimes likes to indulge in chocolate and Italian food.