She's eyeing a return to her Ryan Murphy–produced horror comedy Scream Queens.

But first, Emma Roberts had to squeeze in some last minute holiday shopping on the swanky Melrose Place in West Hollywood on Friday.

The 28-year-old American Horror Story star was dressed in a stylish yet low-key denim jacket with leopard print trim on her collar and sleeve cuffs.

On the move: Emma Roberts, 28, had to squeeze in some last minute holiday shopping on the swanky Melrose Place in West Hollywood on Friday

Emma looked totally relaxed as she strolled along the historic avenue in a low-cut black dress with a casual frayed hem.

She covered her trim legs in black fishnet stockings, and her black patent leather shoes sparkled in the afternoon light.

The 5ft2in actress covered her face with a large pair of black sunglasses, which matched the slim handbag she had slung over her shoulder.

She kept her newly dyed blonde tresses pulled back in a bun and styled with some flowery hair clips.

Casual chic: Emma was dressed in a stylish yet low-key denim jacket with leopard print trim on her collar and sleeve cuffs and a a low-cut black dress with a casual frayed hem

Back in black: She covered her trim legs in black fishnet stockings, and her black patent leather shoes sparkled in the afternoon light

Emma returned to her blonde look in November, after having rocked her darker locks for months.

The change left some of her fans wondering if the Paradise Hills star might have signed up for a new season of her Fox horror–comedy Scream Queens, which originally ran for two seasons from 2015 to 2016.

She starred on the series as Chanel Oberlin, the catty leader of a sorority that was terrorized by a masked serial killer.

Their hasn't been any word on a new series of Scream Queens, and it would likely have to find a new home after Fox canceled the original show.

Chanel, is that you? Emma returned to her blonde look in November, after rocking darker locks for months, leading fans to wonder if a new season of Scream Queens was around the corner

Third time's the charm: Co-creator Ryan Murphy teased a third season in February, and he again suggested doing it in November, when he mentioned Emma and her co-stars Lea Michele (R) and Billie Lourd were interested; shown November 6

However, co-creator Ryan Murphy teased a revival or reboot of the show back in February, noting that Emma and her co-stars Billie Lourd and Lea Michele were both interested in reprising their roles.

At the time of the Scream Queens' cancellation in 2017, then-Fox chairman Gary Newman suggested it had run its course.

'It is an anthology series, and Ryan felt that he told the story over the two seasons, he felt the story was complete.

'There is no plan to go back and tell more stories,' he added, though he and Ryan didn't seem to be on the same page.

Last month, the acclaimed writer and producer shared a photo of Emma from Scream Queens seasons two to Instagram, asking fans if they would be interested in a third season, and once again nothing that Emma, Billie and Lea were all game.

Leading lady: Emma recently played the lead in another Ryan Murphy production, the slasher-inspired American Horror Story: 1984

Most recently, Emma was featured in another Ryan Murphy production, American Horror Story: 1984.

She played the series lead Brooke Thompson, who spends the summer working at a camp.

The season was inspired by 1980s slasher horror films, though in a rare departure for the series it ended with something of a happy ending.

New man: After ending her engagement to fiancé Evan Peters, 32, Emma started a relationship with Mudbound star Garrett Hedlund, 35; shown in July

AHS: 1984 marked the first season of the spooky series not feature Emma former fiancé Evan Peters, 32.

The couple began dating in 2012 after starring together in the film Adult World, and they would appear together in four seasons of American Horror Story.

The relationship was marred by a 2013 domestic violence incident, in which Evan ended up with a bloody nose.

The couple's representatives said it was simply a 'misunderstanding' and she wasn't charged by police after questioning.

It was reported in March that they had ended their engagement amicably and Emma had moved on to dating Mudbound star Garrett Hedlund, 35.