Ashley James kicked off the festive season in style with a spa day on Sunday.

The 32-year-old model and DJ enthused about her 'amazing' massage at a luxury spa based in London's Notting Hill while sharing some sultry snaps from her pampering session.

The former Made In Chelsea star modelled a khaki halterneck bikini, showing off her flat stomach and ample cleavage.

Stunning: Ashley James kicked off the festive season in style with a spa day on Sunday at the Cloud Twelve wellness and lifestyle club in Notting Hill, London

In one picture, Ashley posed in front of an elaborate, twig embellished chandelier as she took a mirror selfie.

She was also seen perched on the massage table, which was made of sand, before unwinding in the sauna at the Cloud Twelve wellness and lifestyle club.

Ashley commented: 'Maxin' relaxin'. This evening my lovely friend @francine_huaman treated me to a CBD massage at a heavenly little place called @cloudtwelveclub in Notting Hill.

'It was amazing! If you look closely in the second photo you can see that the massage beds were made out of sand (they put a sheet over the top).

Toned: The model and DJ, 32, displayed her toned physique and long legs in the snaps

'It felt like we were lying on the beach! I always say that I feel massage beds are made by men as there's never boob space when you're lying flat, and this is honestly the comfiest I've been.

'From now on I'll only massage on beds made of sand. Id never heard of the place before but I totally recommend it.

'I already want to go back. They were SO good, and had amazing herbal teas, food, even a creche!

'I'm actually tempted to see a nutritionist there in the new year to try be a little healthier, as I probably need to stop living off pasta - especially with the marathon coming up.'

Spa day: The former Made In Chelsea star modelled a khaki halterneck bikini as she posed on the massage table, which was made out of sand for added comfort

Ashley recently revealed she's ready to find her 'soulmate' after almost six years of being single.

She doesn't plan on using dating apps as she's pinning her search for Mr Right on finding a genuine connection.

The star previously dated The Xtra Factor host Matt Richardson, but the couple split in 2014.

Ashley told MailOnline: 'I put a lot of investment into my friendship but I definitely feel like I'm ready to meet the right person. I'll never settle. Being on my own has given me an appreciation of knowing I can be happy by myself.

'I'm in a position where I don't need to financially rely on anyone, but still I'm a hopeless romantic and I've had my heart broken.

'It's hardest because the older you get the fussier you are, but I'm ready and I'm looking forward to meeting my soulmate, but whether that's next week or in two years I don't know.'