Senior Trump adviser Stephen Miller became angry at the assertion that he's a white nationalist during a sit-down with Fox Business Network host Trish Regan.

'Not only am I not anything of the sort, but I find the accusation to be profoundly offensive and completely outrageous,' Miller said. 'And it’s an attempt on the part of the Democratic Party to attack and demonize a Jewish staffer.'

Miller's hard-line stance on immigration hasn't helped him shed that image - as the Washington Post reported Friday that the White House wanted to embed immigration enforcement agents within the agency that cares for unaccompanied migrant children as a scheme to deport their parents and relatives.

The idea was Miller's, The Post said.

Senior Trump adviser Stephen Miller became angry at the assertion that he was a white nationalist during a sit-down with Fox Business Network host Trish Regan

The interview came hours before a Washington Post story that identified Stephen Miller as the brainchild of a policy that would have used migrant children in U.S. custody to ensnare undocumented relatives and deport them

In the inteview, Stephen Miller (left) suggested to Trish Regan (right) that Democrats who call him a white nationalist are anti-semitic

Senior officials at the Department of Health and Human services rejected the idea, though permitted Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents to collect data, including fingerprints, from adults claiming the migrant children.

If the adults' attempts were rejected by the government, ICE could green-light their deportations, The Post report said.

Miller's plan looked to be a way to skirt the laws that limit the refugee program being used to deport individuals.

In his interview with Regan, Miller slammed the Democrats for wanting a 'open borders nation of socialism and communism.'

But first, he said their criticism of him stemmed from anti-semitism.

'And make no mistake, there's a deep vein of anti-semitism that's running through today's Democratic Party,' the top White House aide claimed.

Miller's ancestors fled the Russian Empire where Jews were being persecuted.

His uncle wrote about their backstory for Politico Magazine in August 2018, in an essay where he shamed his nephew for his anti-immigrant policies.

'I have watched with dismay and increasing horror as my nephew, an educated man who is well aware of his heritage, has become the architect of immigration policies that repudiate the very foundation of our family’s life in this country,' wrote Miller's uncle David Glosser.

In the interview, Miller also suggested he's being attacked for his strong alliance with Trump.

Miller's one of the handful of original White House staffers who have remained through Trump's first three years of the presidency.

'The truth is - they’re after this president because he is the man standing between them and the American people they are determined to target,' Miller said.

'He is the shield protecting everyday Americans, including millions of Americans of faith, that the Democratic party is determined to bulldoze because they want to create their pro-abortion, secular, irreligious, open borders nation of socialism and communism,' he continued.

'That’s what this is about. It has nothing to do with me,' Miller concluded.