The countdown to Christmas is now heading into the homestretch!

And on Friday Caitlyn Jenner and her live-in manager Sophia Hutchins were seen getting in some late holiday shopping at Polacheck's Jewelers in the Calabasas neighborhood of Los Angeles.

From the looks of the shopping bag in Jenner's right hand, the excursion appeared to be a success.

Checking their lists: Caitlyn Jenner, 70, and gal pal Sophia Hutchins, 23, were spotted getting in some late holiday shopping in the Calabasas neighborhood of Los Angles on Friday

Jenner, 70, opted for casual-comfort in the fashion department in black Adidas sweatpants and a form-fitting white long-sleeve top.

The Keeping Up With The Kardashians star also donned a pair of sporty white sneakers, large-rimmed sunglasses, and wore her brown tresses long, straight and with a part in the middle.

As for Hutchins, 23, she glammed it up in stylish black leggings with a black top and a black furry cropped jacket.

For contrast, she rocked knee-high stiletto boots with a reptilian design.

On the go: Hutchins glammed it up in stylish black leggings, a black top, furry cropped jacket and knee-high stiletto boots with a reptilian design

So far there's no word word on whether Jenner and Hutchins will be attending the annual Kardashian/Jenner Christmas Eve party this year.

The pair went to last year's bash after getting an invite from step-daughter Kim Kardashian. But sister's Khloe and Kourtney didn't agree with the decision because they felt it was unfair to their mother, Kris Jenner, in the wake of Caitlyn's tell-all book, according to In Touch.

They insisted Kim disinvite Caitlyn, but Kris stepped in and gave her approval of the invite, in part, because she had already told her daughter Kendall that she was coming.

Casual comfort: Jenner wore black Adidas sweatpants,a white long-sleeve top and sneakers

The seemingly inseparable pair first met in 2015, and have been living together at Jenner's $3.58 million Malibu mansion since the early part of 2018.

During an interview with the New York Times last week, Sophia clarified she isn't dating the former Olympian and is rather her live-in manager.

'We made a lot of money together and still do,' Hutchins told the publication.

'We were never romantically involved.'

Sophia (born Scott) also revealed she just started dating 'a 30-year-old gentleman who graduated from Harvard and works on Wall Street.'