Every year, Sir Michael Barton considered it his sacred duty to chop down, and then decorate, a pine tree from his Cambridgeshire estate on the day of his Christmas party.

He liked to leave it as late as possible because the tradition had become a natural punctuation point in his life, marking the moment when he finally stopped work and began to enjoy the season of goodwill in earnest.

Saturday, December 22, 1962, was to be no exception. But as he set out from Grantchester Manor with his son Eddie across the misty meadows, crossed the frozen river Cam and entered the wind-swept woods that his family had owned for generations, Sir Michael had no idea that the axe he carried to fell his festive tree would be used to commit murder that very night.

Every year, Sir Michael Barton considered it his sacred duty to chop down, and then decorate, a pine tree from his Cambridgeshire estate on the day of his Christmas party

It was a cold morning and there was little protection from the wind. As Sir Michael reminded his son every year: ‘There are no proper hills between Cambridge and Siberia.’ This, however, was as far as their polite conversation went.

He was annoyed with Eddie for two reasons; the first was from the usual paternal grumpiness that his son was not more like himself; the second was more disturbing.

Having read philosophy at university, Eddie Barton was now thinking of becoming a priest, and he was particularly looking forward to what he referred to as: ‘The blessed incarnation and nativity of our Saviour and Redeemer, the one Lord Jesus Christ.’

His father couldn’t see what was wrong with simply saying ‘Christmas’ but Eddie explained that the word had been devalued recently and that, in his opinion, the festive period had become nothing more than a commercial exercise to distract people from the real issues facing the nation.

‘And what are these “real issues”?’ his father asked.

‘Trust, faith, justice and the rule of law.’

‘Is that all?’

Lady Barton hoped the tradition of father and son stepping out towards the woods and into the impending snow, like a modern Good King Wenceslas with his page, might provide them with the perfect opportunity to clear the frosty air but, so far, it was not going well.

‘The main issue is this,’ Sir Michael asked his son. ‘How are you going to make any money?’

‘That’s not the point.’

‘I suppose you could moonlight. The vicar here fancies himself as a detective.’

‘Sidney Chambers?’

‘Good man. Likes a whisky. Trouble seems to follow him around.’

‘Well, let’s hope it doesn’t follow him here.’

‘Not much chance of that. Hand me the axe, will you?’

Sir Michael had no idea that the axe he carried to fell his festive tree would be used to commit murder that very night

Sir Michael began to take out his frustration on the tree, delivering a series of sharp blows to the lower bark until he was exhausted by his efforts. ‘Let me take over,’ Eddie told his father, ‘I’m stronger than you.’

‘I wouldn’t bank on it.’

‘Don’t worry. I’ll still let you have the last strike.’

Eddie Barton settled into a smooth rhythm with his right arm, aiming precisely into the wound, so that it was a matter of moments before he handed the axe to his father for the final, fatal, blow.

‘Stand back!’ Sir Michael shouted as the tree creaked and fell, starting up a covey of frightened grouse. The two men took the tree up onto their shoulders and began the journey home.

As they emerged from the wood, they saw Sidney Chambers walking his dog Dickens, as well as Sir Michael’s estate manager Simon Walsh, who was also his family lawyer, together with his wife Christine. They were given a cheery wave.

‘Forgive us if we don’t wave back,’ Sir Michael shouted. ‘We’ve got a tree to carry. No spare hands!’ And then he remembered.

‘Have you got the axe?’ he asked his son.

‘No.’ Eddie replied. ‘Have you?’

‘Blast. It’s too far to go back now. We’ll have to leave it. Never mind. No one’s going to take it at this time of year.’

‘Stand back!’ Sir Michael shouted as the tree creaked and fell, starting up a covey of frightened grouse. The two men took the tree up onto their shoulders and began the journey home

Back in Grantchester Manor, Lady Barton was preparing the party punch. This included a secret ingredient that her husband pronounced as ‘lethal’ every year even though no one quite knew what it was. At the same time, she wondered how many half-cut men were going to make their annual joke about her Christian name: ‘If you’re Carol, can I be Father Christmas?’

Simon Walsh had just arrived to service the guns before the Boxing Day shoot. Lady Barton had noticed that her Purdey 12-bore sidelock had developed a heavier recoil recently. She thought the barrels had come a bit loose and wanted her man to take a look.

‘Perhaps I should inspect the punch at the same time. God knows what you put in it.’

‘Well, you’ve caught me red-handed, Simon. I’m surrounded by berries and poison ivy. Do you think I should mix some in? How much would it take, do you think?’

‘If you’re not careful, you might end up killing everyone.’

‘I could get rid of the whole village in one fell swoop.’

‘Who would you want to poison, Carol?’

‘That would be telling.’

Sir Michael entered the room and asked his estate manager if he had ‘brought the necessary papers’. ‘That’s what I’ve come to talk to you about. I was just seeing to your wife’s gun.’

‘She’s always complaining about the sighting. But it’s her eyesight. It can only fire in the direction you’re pointing.’

‘I’ll bear that in mind,’ his wife added. ‘It would be such a pity to hit something by mistake.’

James Norton (left) as Sidney Chambers and Robson Green (right) as Geordie Keating in the British detective drama and hit TV show 'Grantchester'

Her husband ignored her. ‘You’d better come into my study, Simon. Will I need a drink?’

‘Several, I would have thought.’

They closed the door behind them. By the time it re-opened, the Christmas tree was fully decorated, the candles were lit, and the Reverend Sidney Chambers was seated in The Great Hall with a copy of Country Life, waiting for his instructions for the Blessing of the Crib ceremony before the carols.

The conversation from inside the study had yet to be completed. Sir Michael’s lawyer was still trying to persuade his employer to be patient. ’All I am saying is that it’s a risky thing to do.’

‘I’m paying you enough aren’t I?’

‘I won’t be bribed.’

‘You haven’t always been so scrupulous in the past.’ Sir Michael stopped when he noticed his guest. ‘Oh Sidney, you’re here. I don’t think we have any crimes that need your investigation. At least, none that any of us will willingly confess to . . .’ He laughed.

‘That will be between you and your maker,’ said Sidney.

‘You’re not bringing your friend? The sight of a policeman always makes me feel queasy.’

Sidney had developed quite a reputation recently. In the past few years alone, he and Inspector Geordie Keating had been involved in the investigations into the suspicious fall of a Cambridge don from the roof of King’s College Chapel, a case of arson in a photographer’s studio and the poisoning of the entire Grantchester cricket team.

He was now, he liked to think, prepared for any eventuality.

Morven Christine (left) as Amanda and Tom Austen as Guy Hopkins (right), with James Norton as Sidney Chambers (centre) holding a baby

However, this was the time to concentrate on the tasks in hand during what people never failed to tell him must be his ‘busiest time of year’ as if he did nothing for 11 months and only woke up in time for Christmas.

‘I’ll take you to the stables so that you can see the lie of the land,’ Sir Michael continued. ‘Of course, if he has his way, my son will be doing the honours within a couple of years. I hope you’ll talk to him.’

‘You want me to put him off the idea of becoming a priest?’

‘I’m convinced it’s a passing phase.’

This did not seem to be the case. Eddie Barton was keen to convince everyone that his new-found faith was no fleeting matter. He wanted to find out as much about Christianity as he could. He asked Sidney why other churches, such as the Orthodox and the Anabaptists, had different dates for Christmas. He was so eager to discuss his ideas he hardly had time to wait for the answer to one question before asking the next. ‘I wonder what the weather is like in Bethlehem at this time of year. Do they have snow, do you think?’

‘My brother went a few years ago and it rained all the time,’ Simon Walsh chipped in as he headed out towards the stables. ‘He said it was worse than Scotland.’

‘As bad as that?’ Sidney asked. He had fought with the Scots Guards in the war and was always prepared to defend that much- maligned country.

‘It would be nice if we could make our stable more authentic,’ Eddie continued.

‘I don’t think these recreations need to be historically accurate,’ Sidney explained. ‘It’s the idea of the child that’s important, the triumph of meekness and fragility in a fierce and brutal world — that is, I think, the challenge of understanding Christmas.’

James Norton and Morven Christie starring in the Grantchester Christmas special

But Eddie wasn’t listening. He had been distracted by the sight of Alice, the maid, passing by with a mop and a bucket. ‘If you weren’t eight months pregnant, I’d say you’d make a perfect Cinderella,’ he said. He had clearly inherited his father’s eye for the ladies. ‘Are you staying for the party?’

‘I’ve got my own Prince Charming at home.’

‘You know the actress playing him is coming after the show tonight?’

‘And who is that?’ Sidney asked.

‘Philly Cotton. She’s going to sing her hit song I’m The Only Angel On The Christmas Tree. Father’s got quite a soft spot for her.’

‘He’s got a soft spot for most ladies,’ said a small, neat woman with a broken arm.

She extended her left hand to Sidney. ‘Christine Walsh, I don’t think we’ve met. I’m the local vet. Married to Simon. I hear you’re going to bless the animals.’

‘That’s right.’

‘I hope you calm them down. One of the heifers kicked me when she was calving in September and my good arm’s still in plaster. I can hardly do anything. But it’s all hands to the pump. My husband’s just sorting out his Father Christmas outfit. I shouldn’t tell you it’s him, but most people know by now. He does it every year.’

They went out into the yard to look at the nativity scene. Sidney was impressed by the life-sized wooden figures, the ox, the ass and a few cows, with the straw-filled crib waiting for the baby Jesus.

Simon told his wife he was going to pop back home and get changed for the party. He was carrying Lady Barton’s shotgun. ‘The barrels are off the face . . .’

‘I suspect she will be off her face before too long. Do you think you can fix it?’

‘It needs a replacement cross-pin. I’m going to give it a good going-over.’

‘I bet you are.’

‘Then she can fire it as much as she likes . . .’

Christine Walsh asked if Sidney wanted a cup of tea or ‘a quick sharpener’ before the children arrived for the blessing of the crib. There was no point going home and coming back, but as soon as they returned to the hall, they couldn’t help overhearing what appeared to be a family argument.

Sir Michael Barton was shouting: ‘FOR GOD’S SAKE, BOY, SHUT UP!’

His wife gave a high nervous laugh. ‘Don’t speak to your son like that, darling. People will notice.’

‘I don’t care. He should watch his tongue — that’s all.’

Eddie Barton was adamant. ‘I wasn’t saying anything . . .’

‘What were you implying?’ his mother asked.

The men looked embarrassed as Sir Michael explained. ‘Our son was suggesting that I was the father of Alice’s unborn child. It’s the only reason we’re keeping her on, apparently.’

‘That’s absurd,’ Lady Carol replied.

‘I know it is. One act of kindness and all the villagers suspect the worst.’

Simona Brown (right) as Violet Todd speaking to James Norton in the ITV hit series

‘You can hardly blame them,’ Eddie continued. ‘You do have a history, even if Alice is more within my range.’

‘Go anywhere near that girl and I’ll kill you . . .’

‘What makes you think I haven’t already?’

‘You need to be careful, boy . . .’

‘Or what? What more can you possibly do to damage me?’

‘I’m not saying.’

‘The only hold you have over me, father, is money, and if I can show you that I don’t need it . . .’

‘By becoming a vicar . . .’

‘Then I’ll demonstrate, with God’s help, that I am capable of leading a different life altogether.’

‘You may need a bit more than God if you don’t want to starve, boy.’ It was not the best atmosphere in which to welcome the local families to the party, but the brass band struck up a moving medley of carols: God Rest Ye Merry Gentlemen, O Little Town Of Bethlehem and The First Noel.

Sidney blessed the animals, the children found their way to Santa’s grotto as their parents got stuck into the warm punch and the mood began to turn festive.

The Great Hall filled with the comfortable aroma of wood ash from the fire, mulled wine and cigarettes — the air punctuated by chatter, laughter, and a touch of gossip about Eddie Barton’s decision to become a priest, Christine Walsh’s broken arm and why anyone would want to keep on a maid who was eight months pregnant.

There was no sense at all that within the next two hours, one of them would be found dead and the police would keep them up half the night.

At last the celebrated actress Philly Cotton arrived by making a dramatic entrance at the top of the staircase in a white fur coat and Cossack hat. This she speedily removed to reveal a long dress in soft tangerine satin, with a bolero of looped velvet ribbon in sharp pink and matching orange.

Although she was at least 50, she was one of the most glamorous women Sidney had ever seen. She paused, to make sure everyone was looking at her, and then started to sing her famous song:

I’m the only angel on the Christmas tree

Shining out so merrily . . .

Simon told Sidney he had to go and change. ‘It’s all part of the magic. If I make a strong impact at the party in my civvies then no one can believe I am Father Christmas as well. I have the perfect alibi. And no one looks at anyone else during the final sing-song. People can get up to all manner of nonsense. I won’t be long.’

Philly Cotton asked everyone to join in with the chorus:

I will sparkle, I will shine,

Till you make your Christmas mine . . .

The room so rose in temperature with the warmth of the people, the mulled wine and the roaring fire that Sir Michael confessed to his wife that he was feeling a bit dizzy. She wondered if he had an assignation.

‘Of course I bloody don’t.’

‘Wouldn’t be the first time. In fact, you’ve normally had one by now.’

‘There is someone I have to see but it’s not what you think.’

‘That would make a change. Send her my love.’

‘What makes you think it’s a woman?’

‘Because it always is.’

Sir Michael walked out on his wife just as Simon appeared as Father Christmas at the top of the staircase to lead everyone in a singalong of Rudolf The Red Nosed Reindeer and We Wish You A Merry Christmas.

The finale was the cue for the guests to leave, but as they worried about finding their coats and journeying home through the freezing darkness, they began to realise that, although they could bid farewell to a hostess whose smile had slipped almost as much as her make-up, there was no sign of their host.

Where was Sir Michael?

The Whodunnit Who's Who The cast in order of appearance in the story: Sir Michael Barton, lord of Grantchester Manor, who has a reputation as a ladies’ man Eddie Barton, his disaffected son Lady Carol Barton, Sir Michael’s flirtatious wife who is fond of a drink The Reverend Sidney Chambers, vicar of Grantchester and all-round good egg Simon Walsh, their estate manager and family lawyer Christine Walsh, the no-nonsense local vet, married to Simon Inspector Geordie Keating, a seen-it-all-before, battle-hardened detective who is Sidney’s friend Alice, a young, attractive maid at Grantchester Manor who is eight months pregnant Philly Cotton, an actress who is also an old friend — and possibly an old flame — of Sir Michael’s

Eddie and a rather breathless Simon, newly relieved from the charge of playing Father Christmas, took charge of what soon became a search. Alarm spread through the assembled throng as the guests realised it would look rude to leave without saying goodbye and they had no idea how much longer they were going to have to wait before Sir Michael’s return.

‘I’m sure he must be seeing to one of the other guests,’ said Sidney. ‘That’s one way of putting it,’ Eddie Barton replied as he returned through the front door. ‘Couldn’t find him anywhere.’

At last there was a noise that sounded like a fox in distress. It was coming from the back yard. Sidney followed the guests out into the night, drawn by a single distant light. Someone shouted for the doctor.

Sir Michael was lying on the ground in the stables. There was a deep wound to his neck and blood was seeping into the straw on the floor around him.

His eyes were open, staring upwards in shock and disbelief. Christine was standing over the body. ‘He’s dead. Even if I’d arrived earlier, I wouldn’t have been able to do anything, especially with one arm. That’s one hell of a blow.’

‘Looks like the actress left just in time,’ her husband muttered.

What was Sir Michael doing in the stables? Sidney wondered. Had he really arranged to meet someone? And could that ‘someone’ have been his killer?

Already, he began to think like a detective. Who, out of all the people gathered on this festive occasion, would have wanted to kill their host?

The victim had already had arguments that very day with his wife, his son, his lawyer and several others. There were important documents in his study; perhaps, even, a new will.

The vet, Christine Walsh, was continually drawing attention to her broken arm and the actress had made her exit from the party just in time to avoid the brouhaha.

There was such a lot to think through.

Sidney knew he was going to have to telephone Inspector Keating of the Cambridge Police. This was certainly going to complicate his plans for Christmas . . .

The first episode of the new series of Grantchester is on January 10 at 9pm on ITV.