There's no hiding that baby bump.

Pregnant Jenna Dewan was spotted out running a few errands with her six-year-old daughter Everly on Friday.

And she partially covered her growing belly in a long, camel colored knitted coat that she wore over a white lacy camisole, black skinny pants and black flats.

Devoted mom: Pregnant Jenna Dewan was spotted out running a few errands in Los Angeles with her six-year-old daughter Everly on Friday.

The dancer and actress appeared to be carrying one of her little girl's fluffy stuffed animals as she held the cutie's hand during their outing.

Everly was as cute as could be in a violet track suit and pale blue sneakers

In April of 2018, things weren't so happy for the 39-year-old as she announced the end of her nine-year marriage to Everly's dad, Magic Mike star Channing Tatum. also 39.

Twenty months later, Jenna is now dating Broadway star Steve Kazee, 44, and the couple's first child together is due in 2020.

Hanging on: The little cutie clutched the 39-year-old singer-dancer's rm with both of her hands as they walked across the parking lot

Meanwhile, Everly's dad has parted ways with his pop star girlfriend Jessie J, according to news broken by UsWeekly.

They reported: 'Channing Tatum and Jessie J broke up about a month ago. They are still really close and still good friends.'

In September, Jenna and Steve told People: 'We are beyond overjoyed and couldn’t be happier to be expanding our family!'

'Becoming a mother is quite simply the absolute best most incredible thing that has ever happened to me,' the former World of Dance host wrote on Instagram at the time.

'@stevekazee you are a gift from above and I couldn’t be more excited to be expanding our family together! Thank you guys for all the love!!'

Maternity chic: The celebrity partially covered her growing belly in a long, camel colored knitted coat that she wore over a white lacy camisole, black skinny pants and black flats

And Steve shared a gushing tribute to Jenna, saying: 'I can’t even begin to describe the feelings that I have had since we first learned that Jenna was pregnant!

'I have waited my entire life for this moment and couldn’t have found a better person to build a family with.'

He added: 'Jenna also brought with her one of the greatest gifts one could ever imagine… her beautiful daughter.

'Evie burst into my life like a supernova and has continued to burn so brightly in it. I can’t wait to give her a sibling and make our little family a little bit bigger.'