Brazil's cattle are about to get an earful as Queensland's "Fitbit' for cows hits the South American plains.

After successful trials across Queensland, the digital ear tag which tracks the health of cattle is primed to make headway in one of the world's largest cattle markets.

Tag developers Ceres Tag have signed a memorandum of understanding with Brazilian cattle management technology firm LeBov, giving them access to a market with more than 230 million head of cattle.

The tag produces similar data to smart watches, and allows farmers to track whether an animal has escaped or been stolen or even if it is giving birth or is sick, by feeding data directly to a smartphone or computer.

The technology is a joint initiative between the Queensland Government, James Cook University, Ceres Tag and the CSIRO.

"This is an exciting development for Ceres Tag following the success of a trial in North Queensland," Premier Annastacia Palaszczuk said.

"Ceres Tag's technology is a perfect fit for the Brazilian cattle industry because their farmers face the same challenges as Queensland graziers - tracking cattle across such vast areas of land."

The technology has been trialled in Queensland since 2018.

The tag is also set to transform Australia's homegrown cattle industry, state innovation minister Kate Jones says.

"With this new technology due to be commercially available in Australia in late 2020, graziers will know if their cattle are sick, if they have roamed too far, the condition of the paddocks their cattle are grazing on and when they're ready for breeding," Ms Jones said.

"It can also reduce the chance of theft - they use GPS tracking, accelerometers, Bluetooth tracking and radio-frequency identification through a proprietary smart ear tag.

"This technology could have a huge impact on our Queensland graziers."

The long-life digital tag uses GPS feed data directly to a smartphone or computer with the goal being to develop an ultra-low power ear tag which lasts as long as the animal does.

Ceres Tag chief executive David Smith, believes the tags are the future of livestock industry data for the next generation of graziers.

"It gives greater transparency over grazing management, allowing farmers to locate and monitor their animals to reduce risk and operating costs, improve efficiency and assist with traceability," Mr Smith said.

Trade and Investment Queensland (TIQ) is working with Ceres Tag to help identify, explore and access new export markets.