Anna Faris and Michael Barrett are rumored to be newly engaged.

But while out and about on Friday afternoon the hot Hollywood couple had a lowkey outing with her son, Jack, aged seven.

Anna, 43, and her son held hands as they walked around Los Angeles as the cinematographer, 49, tagged along for the fun.

Stepping out: Anna Faris stepped out into the daylight on Friday afternoon with her son Jack and rumored fiancé Michael Barrett

The House Bunny star dressed down in a black jacket and plain black baseball cap for her day out with her family.

She also threw on a pair of white draw-string sweatpants with a pair of brown suede Ugg boots.

The actress tried to keep a low profile during her outing and sported a pair of black aviator sunglasses.

Comfortable: The House Bunny star dressed down in a black jacket and plain black baseball cap

Casual: She also threw on a pair of white draw-string sweatpants and a pair of brown suede Ugg boots

At one point during their walk, Jack got a bit cold and dug out his red longsleeve sweater before going back to holding hands with his mom.

Michael kept it cook in a pair of denim jeans a black bomber jacket as he chatted with his love outside an establishment.

This outing comes after Anna has been spotted sporting what looks like an engagement ring on her left hand.

Out and about: Anna and her rumored fiancé Michael Barrett stepped out of an obscure building while out in Los Angeles. The two have yet to speak out if they are engaged

Just days ago, Anna's ex-husband Chris Pratt took to social media to boast about his new wife Katherine Schwarzenegger on her 30th birthday.

In the special post, he called her an 'incredible wife and step mom' before gushing how he would be lost without her.

'Happy Birthday Katherine! So happy to have you in my life,' he wrote in the post.

'I don’t know what I’d do without you. Probably get locked out on the balcony somehow and have to live there or be wandering around some city with an uncharged phone and only one shoe, late for work like some kind of anxiety fever dream.'

Back then: Anna and Chris Pratt had a whirlwind love after meeting back in 2007 on the set of their comedy, Take Me Home Tonight

Faris and Pratt had a whirlwind love after meeting back in 2007 on the set of their comedy, Take Me Home Tonight.

And then, just a year later the two got engaged, but even before their wedding they both sported wedding bands.

The two experienced a rollercoaster of events following the premiere of Chris' series Parks and Recreation, their wedding in Bali, and announcing their pregnancy in 2012.

Things began to get rocky after they welcomed Jack with the actor away filming movies and infidelity rumors coming to surface.

And shortly after in Mary 2017, they announced their split.