Motorway service stations are ripping off millions of Christmas travellers by up to 36p a litre on fuel, a Daily Mail investigation has found.

As millions set off on festive getaways, our survey exposes how fuel giants are cashing in – by charging extortionate prices compared to non-motorway forecourts.

Services along the M25 – where some of the worst holiday congestion is expected – and the M20 are charging the most, with many asking for 149.9p a litre for unleaded and 155.9p for diesel.

The Mail highlights how this week’s petrol prices at the 85 motorway services in England and Wales are a bigger issue than ever. Many are asking for 149.9p a litre for unleaded and 155.9p for diesel

This is well above the national average of 125.3p for unleaded and 129.6p for diesel, and far higher than at local supermarket petrol stations.

In one of the worst examples, unleaded fuel at Birchanger Green Services on the M11 in Essex is 36p more expensive than at a Sainsbury’s three miles away.

This means it could cost £20 more to fill up a typical 55-litre family car on the motorway.

Services along the M25 – where some of the worst holiday congestion is expected – and the M20 are charging the most, with many asking for 149.9p a litre for unleaded and 155.9p for diesel [File photo]

Ministers have repeatedly promised to crack down on the ‘wild west’ world of motorway petrol, which sees drivers exploited by sky-high prices.

The Mail highlights how this week’s petrol prices at the 85 motorway services in England and Wales are a bigger issue than ever. The investigation used data from PetrolPrices.com.

Last night, the AA warned that drivers stuck in traffic will have ‘little option but to endure massively pumped-up motorway fuel costs’.

This weekend is expected to be one of the busiest on the roads as millions of motorists head home for Christmas.

A Department for Transport spokesman said: ‘Drivers should not be in a position where they risk running out of fuel because of price concerns.’

BP and Shell did not respond to requests for comment. Esso said its petrol prices are set by the independent fuel providers which operate them.