She has lost a huge two stone and dropped an impressive three dress sizes in just seven months, after giving birth to son Hudson last year.

And highlighting her recent weight loss, Katie Waissel shared incredible before and after snaps to Instagram on Friday, while telling fans she now feels like she is the 'best version of herself'.

In a reflective post, Katie looked back on how far she has come in the last year after starting 2019 feeling 'completely inadequate, helpless and alone'.

'The best version of myself': Katie Waissel shared incredible before and after snaps to Instagram on Friday to highlight her two stone weight loss while reflecting on a difficult year

In her before and after pictures, the former X Factor star looked dramatically different, with the snaps highlighting the phenomenal change in her body over recent months.

Looking incredibly gym-honed, Katie flexed the muscles in her back and showcased her taut stomach while posing topless in her old maternity underwear.

Sharing a lengthy caption alongside her upload, Katie said: 'Kiss My Ass 2019 - As the New Year fast approaches, and I’m slowly beginning to jot down my 2020 goals, I can’t help but take a look back on the roller coaster year that I have just battled through.

'Not only did I begin this last year with a huge international move with my then four month old baby and dog, I spent my first ever Christmas as a new mum, which should have been incredibly exciting, overshadowed by the fact that I was a single mother and completely lost, and afraid of what that year ahead had in store.'

Feeling inspired: The former X Factor star's reflective post explained that she has now found her own 'identity, self worth and strength both inner and outer'

Transformation: Looking incredibly gym-honed, Katie flexed the muscles in her back and showcased her taut stomach while posing topless in her old maternity underwear

Addressing the difficult time she faced at first, Katie continued: 'Devastated and wanting so badly to hide in a cave feeling completely inadequate, helpless and alone, I battled through the crisis and utter heartbreak that I had endured, so that my darling little one could look back on his first ever Christmas with nothing but sweet memories and that I can surely say he can!'

Feeling more optimistic about the future, Katie added: 'This year, what I am most excited about, is that we can celebrate all that we have achieved both individually and together. Hudson is almost 18 months old, walking, talking and a total rock star, me, well I’ve finally found my own identity, self worth and strength both inner and outer.

'So as I post this photo, of me still wearing my maternity underwear, hair thrown up in its righteous ‘mum bun’ I’m proud to say I’ve literally worked my ass off to become the best version of myself for what is set to be the best year ahead yet!

'There are still a few days left in this year, and as I always say, never stop until we cross that finish line, better yet push yourself that little bit more! Have faith in yourself wherever you are in your journey!'

She concluded: 'Believe that sometimes we break just to grow bigger and better and stronger! I’m proud of each and every one of you, you’ve got this! Be empowered and feel inspired.'

Katie welcomed her son Hudson in July 2018 as a single mum, after splitting with boyfriend Andy Speer when she was eight months pregnant.

She then embarked on an intense 10-month long fitness overhaul that saw her lose two stone and drop three dress sizes.

Incredible: Katie, who is mum to son Hudson, has lost two stone and dropped three dress sizes after embarking on a 10-month long fitness overhaul

Making a change: Katie said she felt forced to make a change after feeling 'completely inadequate, helpless and alone' during Hudson's first Christmas last year

Speaking about her weight loss in an interview with Closer, Katie said she was pushed to make a change following a shopping trip that left her in tears, as clothes were no longer fitting her.

The singer explained that her eating habits went off track as she adjusted to life as a single mum and moved back to the UK after seven years in America, adding that she was in a 'really bad spot'.

Katie told the magazine: 'I can't believe what my body is capable of. In many ways, it's better than before I had a baby. When I look in the mirror I actually stop in disbelief, because I can't believe it's me and that my cellulite has gone.'

Before having a child with Andy, former Celebrity Big Brother star Katie had gone through two divorces in four years.

She divorced her first husband, model Brad Alphonso in 2012, following domestic violence claims, and went on to marry radio host Brian Moote.

Katie and Brian divorced in 2016 after a year of marriage and had accused him of sleeping with their neighbour.