The wayward Rose family will soon be hanging up their formal wear at the Rosebud Motel for the last time.

Schitt's Creek, the Emmy and SAG Award-nominated comedy series starring Eugene Levy, son Dan Levy, Catherine O'Hara and Annie Murphy, dropped the trailer for its sixth and final season on Friday, and the irreverence promises to be at an all-time high when episodes begin airing on Pop TV on January 7.

The trailer begins with Johnny and Moira Rose — played by comedy legends Levy Sr. and O'Hara — along with a shaky Stevie (Emily Hampshire) standing in front of the newly 'partially renovated' motel, ready to welcome viewers in a faux commercial.

The one and only Moira: Schitt's Creek, the Emmy and SAG Award-nominated comedy series starring Catherine O'Hara, dropped the trailer for its sixth and final season on Friday

Soon, viewers are treated to a montage of the various characters and inhabitants of the small Canadian backwater of Schitt's Creek, along with the odd sounds they make.

After that, daughter Alexis (Murphy) asks an exercise class if they are 'ready for a total physical and emotional transformation?!' — maybe not so much — and dad Johnny exclaims in his usual panicked tone, 'What is happening?'

Then, however, we get to the main event: David's (series co-creator Daniel Levy) wedding plans for his nuptials to Patrick (Noah Reid), and in his typical high-drama fashion, he exasperates, 'I once dated someone who left me for a stuffed animal. I'm not going to have my big day — our big day — compromised because Alexis wanted to chill in a tankini for six months!'

Cut to Alexis, serving up her best incredulous expression.

This season is all about the main event: David's (series co-creator Daniel Levy) wedding plans for his nuptials to Patrick (Noah Reid)

Typical high-drama fashion: David exasperates, 'I once dated someone who left me for a stuffed animal'

But then, things get somewhat emotional, as the bickering siblings face up to the fact that with David getting married, things will irrevocably change.

'The truth is... is that I'm really going to miss you,' Alexis reveals to her brother, who then takes her into his arms and says he'll miss her, too.

Patrick gets in on the warm and fuzzies as well, telling his future father-in-law Johnny that 'As lucky as I feel to have met David, I also feel incredibly lucky to be joining your family' (are you SURE about that, Patrick?!).

'I'm really going to miss you': Things get somewhat emotional, as the bickering siblings face up to the fact that with David getting married, things will irrevocably change

Patrick gets in on the warm and fuzzies as well: He tells his future father-in-law that 'As lucky as I feel to have met David, I also feel incredibly lucky to be joining your family'

There's even some tenderness shown between Johnny and Moira, who share a peck on the lips, as well as Johnny and Chris Elliott's mayor Roland Schitt, who hug.

The fish-out-of-water series about a rich family fallen on hard times in a middle-of-nowhere town that they happen to own has been oscillating between high jinx and soapy drama (mainly thanks to Moira) since 2015, when it began steadily gaining in word of mouth to become a sleeper hit.

The final season of Schitt's Creek premieres January 7 at 9/8c on Pop/CBC.

There's even some tenderness shown between Johnny and Moira, who share a peck on the lips...

...as well as between Johnny and Chris Elliott's mayor Roland Schitt, who hug