Planting trees that take many years to grow tall might seem a low priority for someone entering their tenth decade.

But not for Joan Angel, who at 95 is perhaps our oldest and certainly most appropriately named ‘tree angel’.

Mrs Angel, who has donated £200 to the Daily Mail’s Be A Tree Angel campaign, said the best Christmas present anyone can give is new trees.

Her donation will pay for 65 saplings to be planted, which she sees as much better than any other gift and ‘an inspiration to the children of the future’.

Mrs Angel, from Minehead, Somerset, said: ‘What a wonderful thought it is. I have such a large family: three daughters, ten grandchildren, 22 great-grandchildren and most recently two great-great-grandchildren. ‘Giving them all a Christmas present has become impossible.

Frankly, it would break the bank. But paying for so many trees to be planted feels like a far greater gift than a card with some money in it could ever be.

‘This is a legacy that will help the beautiful planet they call home long into the future.

Joan Angel, who at 95 is perhaps our oldest and certainly most appropriately named ‘tree angel’

It has greater value and deeper meaning than anything else I could spend that £200 on.’

She said the saplings will be planted in places where children and teenagers can see them – in school grounds, alongside playing fields or in parks.

She added: ‘That’s such a lovely, comforting thought. The idea that I’ve played a part in giving back to the planet, and in a way that might just bring pleasure and even inspiration to the children of the future who will watch my trees grow, feels so good to me.

‘It’s easy to feel disheartened by the world; to feel as though there’s nothing you can say or do as an individual that will make much of a difference.

But something like this makes you feel like you are doing your little bit to help.

I grew up by the Grand Union Canal in Ealing and from the age of eight, my parents allowed me to walk down to the canal alone, where I discovered a whole other world.

‘I’d cross the road, so dusty and noisy with the trams, and make my way down to the trees where it all seemed so peaceful.

I loved it there and would head towards the water most days, whatever the weather.’

And Mrs Angel is proud to have passed the nature bug down through the many generations of her family.

‘We all seem to care about the planet and enjoy being out in nature,’ she said. One of Joan’s grandsons is Tom Rivett- Carnac, a founding partner of Global Optimism, a group which campaigns for social and environmental change.

‘I’m very proud of him,’ she said. ‘But also of all my family and the way they genuinely seem to care about the future of this planet.

‘One of my daughters, Sara, owns a beautiful wood in Somerset – she often says that instead of leaving money behind after she’s gone she’d far rather leave a legacy of beautiful woodland, which I find extremely heartwarming.’

Daily Mail Be A Tree Angel campaign

And despite being in her tenth decade, Mrs Angel’s life-long love of spending time in the company of trees is something she continues to nurture.

‘There’s a beautiful old oak tree near the retirement home where I now live, and I love going outside to visit it,’ she said.

‘At the moment the weather’s made the ground directly around its trunk too wet and slippery for me to be able to get up close to it.

‘But when spring comes it’ll dry out and I’ll be able to go and hug it and pass on thoughts of love and affection.’

As for what passers-by might make of her tree-hugging activities, Mrs Angel says she doesn’t give two hoots.

‘If it looks odd to other people, I really don’t care. Why should I? I’m not doing any harm – I’m simply giving thanks to a tree that helps put air in my lungs,’ she added.