It was a 2005 film starring John Cusack and Lisa Bonet.

And High Fidelity gets a gender-flipped update in Hulu's upcoming adaptation of the 1995 Nick Hornby novel starring none other than Bonet's daughter Zoe Kravitz.

Zoe, 31, plays Rob, a female record store owner in Crown Heights, Brooklyn who reflects on past relationships through music and pop culture all while trying to get over her one true love, per Entertainment Tonight.

Lead: Zoe, 31, plays Rob, a female record store owner in Crown Heights, Brooklyn who reflects on past relationships through music and pop culture all while trying to get over her one true love, per Entertainment Tonight

Its setting is a contrast from the London setting of the novel and the Chicago setting of the movie adaptation.

And instead of a male lead narrating the goings-on of the film, a female lead does in-turn.

The two-minute trailer, which is shot in the first person, shows Zoe speaking directly to the camera in the same style as John Cusack did in 2005.

POV: The two-minute trailer, which is shot in the first person, shows Zoe speaking directly to the camera in the same style as John Cusack did in 2005

Plot: As the show continues, Rob recaps her romances with five former flames - and when of them returns to the city, she gets panicked

More info: The series also stars Da’Vine Joy Randolph, David H. Holmes, Jake Lacy and Kingsley Ben-Adir

'There is a little bit of everything: punk, electronic, hip-hop, rock,' the star says, setting the scene. '... decently curated cuts, unpretentious location, owner's a little rude. Two-and-a-half stars.'

As the show continues, Rob recaps her romances with five former flames - and when of them returns to the city, she gets panicked.

Her friends remind her of her tendency to 'overthink things,' which becomes especially evident after she melts down over her ex seeing someone else named Lily.

Throwback: High Fidelity (2005) starred Jack Black, Todd Louiso, John Cusack and Lisa Bonet

'I think I think about things the exact right amount, thank you,' Rob dismisses.

The series also stars Da’Vine Joy Randolph, David H. Holmes, Jake Lacy and Kingsley Ben-Adir.

All 10 episodes of High Fidelity will be available on Friday, Feb. 14 via Hulu.