Hollyoaks actress Lysette Anthony has spoken about her alleged abuse at the hands of Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein.

In a candid interview with Channel 4 on Friday, she claimed the disgraced producer raped her on two occasions, leaving her with nightmares.

Lysette, 56, claimed that for Weinstein, the alleged abuse was not about sex, but about 'domination and control.'

Harvey Weinstein leaving court following a bail hearing in New York on December 6

'This isn't about sex; this is about domination and control.

'This is a man who if he wanted to have he could've bought anything even by that point,' she said.

'He could've had women who would've gladly done anything. Other than the one thing that is quite tricky, especially as you get more famous, is to find someone who is frightened of you.'

The actress detailed how she had been friends with Weinstein for about a year before he first allegedly raped her, after she was 'made to go and have dinner' with him in 1982 at the age of 18 or 19.

'Harvey at that point was a rock journalist; I was literally handed over in the lobby and told you have to have dinner with this man,' she said.

He told her he was trying to get into the film industry and the pair formed a friendship over the next year which took a sickening turn when she claims he turned up to her flat before forcing himself upon her and raping her in her hallway in the late 1980s.

Hollyoaks actress Lysette Anthony has spoken about her alleged abuse at the hands of Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein

She claimed the disgraced producer raped her on two occasions, leaving her with nightmares

Ms Anthony said she tried to resist but was unable to fight off heavily-built Weinstein.

'I have this memory of one morning in my little basement flat suddenly seeing this fat lump of a man stumbling down my steep little steps,' she said.

'He knocked on the door it was in the morning I only had a gown on he pushed me against my coat rack and he raped me.

'He was heavy and fat and I was trying to get him off and (I was) giving up.'

She went on to claim that the film producer raped her a second time, in the room she was staying in at Cannes Film Festival.

The London-born actress admitted that the experience had left her scarred. 'I still have nightmares. I have nightmares of mounds of white revolting flesh and skin with pours like bloody black volcanoes stuffed with crusty pus,' she said

The London-born actress admitted that the experience had left her scarred. 'I still have nightmares. I have nightmares of mounds of white revolting flesh and skin with pours like bloody black volcanoes stuffed with crusty pus,' she said.

'If that's someone's idea of relationship, it certainly isn't mine.'

Lysette claimed last year that a 'dirty tricks' campaign left her as the only alleged victim in the UK to go public.

She questioned why she has been the only Briton 'with the guts' to waive her anonymity and speak out about the alleged abuse she suffered at the hands of the movie mogul.

The actress said that after she went public, her 14-year-old son Jimi had been mocked by other boys who said his mother is 'Harvey Weinstein's b****'.

She said there had been 'a huge backlash' against women who have spoken out against Weinstein. He has denied all allegations of non-consensual sex.

The actress has had a long film, TV and stage career and has starred in Channel 4 soap opera Hollyoaks, BBC sitcom One Up, Three Down and ITV comedy-drama Auf Wiedersehen, Pet.