Former Arsenal manager Unai Emery has slammed struggling star Mesut Ozil and claims that the German didn't possess the attributes to fit into his style of play.

The 48-year-old had been dismissed last month, and the form of Ozil proved to be a constant headache for the coach before he was axed.

And in his first interview, which came shortly after Mikel Arteta was announced as his successor, Emery hinted that Ozil proved to be his greatest challenge during his stint in North London.

Former Arsenal manager Unai Emery has slammed Gunners' struggling star Mesut Ozil

Despite Emery's tenure being brought to a premature end, the creative midfielder's below-par showings have continued under caretaker Freddie Ljungberg, fuelling rumours that Ozil could soon be shipped out on loan.

Emery highlighted the former Real Madrid man's qualities, but believes that Ozil relies heavily on surrounding players to support him.

'There are games in which you see Mesut's brilliance, linking with the attack,' Emery told BBC Sport. 'But also I had to find players around him so he felt comfortable.

'Also the team needed to feel solid. And when you, little by little, have to build a team that is aggressive, intense, as well as structured for good pressure, we also had to find a space for Mesut.

Emery believes that Ozil relied on teammates around him and was unable to press opposition

'Ozil is a very important player if you can find a way to make it work with other players.

'He has talent that allows other players to be better, but when you want a bit more aggressive pressure he does not have the best qualities for that.'

Arsenal chief Raul Sanllehi had claimed that the 31-year-old needed to work harder on the training field to earn a regular starting spot, although Ozil would surprisingly outlast Emery following a run of seven games without a win.

And in temporary replacement Ljungberg's final game at the helm, Ozil was hauled off shy of the hour mark and threw his gloves to the ground in anger.

The former Gunners boss supported the club's decision to hire Mikel Arteta as his successor

Emery also believes that hiring Arteta was 'a good decision' from the Gunners hierarchy.

He added: 'He really is prepared to make that next jump.

'He has been at Arsenal before, he's been in the Premier League and he has been working with Pep Guardiola.

'I do believe this is a good decision and I would also like it to be a good decision.'