She recently hit back at trolls who criticised her for spending too much time at the gym.

And Christine McGuinness put on a defiant display as she flaunted her figure while leaving BBC Breakfast's studios, in Manchester, on Friday.

The Real Housewives Of Cheshire star, 31, wowed in a fluffy pink top with a diamante collar and a black mini skirt.

Stylish: Christine McGuinness, 31, cut a chic figure as she left BBC Breakfast Studios, in Manchester, on Friday

Showing off her toned figure in the outfit, Christine added a pair of semi-sheer tights which put her lean pins firmly on display.

To accessorise, the star added a pair of black boots, while her honey-hued tresses were styled in flowing curls.

Clearly in the festive spirit, Christine later shared a sultry snap of herself dressed in a Mrs Claus costume.

Busty: The Real Housewives Of Cheshire star wowed in a fluffy pink top which she paired with a black bow and mini skirt

Showing off her tanned and toned pins in a red mini-dress with faux fur trim, Christine posed up a storm for the racy snap.

Her outing comes after a week after the star slammed Internet trolls who claimed she spends 'too much time' at the gym instead of with her three children.

The Real Housewives of Cheshire star has six-year-old twins Penelope and Leo and Felicity, three, with presenter Paddy McGuinness.

And the blonde beauty has said her children 'are my life' and added that keeping fit with her gym sessions helps her mental health after her ten-year struggle with anorexia.

Racy display: Clearly in the festive spirit, Christine later shared a sultry snap of herself dressed in a Mrs Claus costume

She told The Sun Online: 'I make no apologies. That's just a snippet of my life. When I turned 30 I realised life is for living.

'I was anorexic for 10 years when I was younger and fitness is what I do for my mental health as well as to show people this is how I get fit. Most of the time I'm with my kids.

'The people who say horrible things don't see me on the school run, doing appointments for the kids, because I keep some things private.'

She added the people who criticise her do not know her and 'my children are my life.