She's currently enjoying a romantic birthday escape to Mauritius with her doting boyfriend, Joshua Gross.

And on Friday, Sophie Monk decided she wanted to give herself a 'holiday lob' hair cut for the occasion - but without the help of a hairdresser.

Instead, the bikini-clad Love Island host, 40, decided to chop off her luscious locks herself using a pair of kitchen scissors, before revealing the results to her thousands of followers.

'The holiday lob!' Bikini-clad Sophie Monk debuted her new look after chopping off her own hair with kitchen scissors in Mauritius on Friday (pictured left, before, and right, after)

'There, do you reckon?' she asked her boyfriend, who filmed the entire stunt for her Instagram story.

'Come on you sucker!' she said to her hair, before Josh cut in saying: 'I think you're cutting it with the bottle opening part...'

She then held wisps of her freshly cut locks - which she added, were mostly hair extensions - in her hand, before smiling to the camera at what she had achieved.

Is everything OK? Sophie appeared shocked at the amount of hair she had cut from her hair using only kitchen scissors as her tool

Blonde bombshell! Right before heading on a night out with her beau, she showed off her newly cut locks once again while sporting a pretty pink ensemble

So in love! Sophie alongside boyfriend Joshua Gross (left), who has whisked her abroad to celebrate her milestone birthday

Clearly impressed with her transformation, Sophie shared a sultry selfie flaunting her new lob - before showing it off in full-force as she got ready for dinner in her bathroom later than evening.

The reality star - who is rumoured to be heading into I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! in 2020 - has been having the time of her life in the tropical paradise.

She hit headlines earlier this week, after sharing a string of videos completely in the nude with her followers in a bid to bite back at bodyshamers.

'Someone told me: "Stop wearing bikinis, you are too old!" So I took their advice and stopped wearing them,' she joked in the caption of the video.

'I took their advice': Sophie hit back at bodyshamers by stripping nude in a video filmed by her boyfriend Joshua, after she was told by trolls she was 'too old' to be wearing bikinis

'I think you should post what ever you want. As long as you're not hurting anyone,' she continued.

In the 30-second clip, filmed inside her luxurious hotel room at Club Med La Plantation d'Albion, Sophie was seen hiding behind jugs, a gigantic vase, pineapples, two cans of beer, a gift bag and flowers.

'Is there any milk in their Soph?,' Joshua asked, while Sophie held two jugs - quickly responding: 'Yeah, there's heaps.'

Moments later she was asked if she wanted any fruit - before becoming surprised by a pair of pineapples in front of her, which hid her stunning figure.

Later, she was seen swimming up from under the water to two waiting cans of beers.

Want some fruit? Posting the clip on Instagram, the reality star strategically protected her modesty behind different objects as she walked through her holiday villa in Mauritius, naked