An armed robber allegedly told a Georgia restaurant owner's children that he was going to kill their daddy during a terrifying raid, the traumatized father has revealed.

John Nop owns the Boston Fish Market in Clayton County - an establishment that has only been open for a few months.

He explained to WSB-TV that the shift was normal until around 8pm when two armed men burst in.

'I looked up. All I saw was the barrel in my head,' Nop said. '(They came) straight up on me and just pulled a gun in my face.'

Scroll down for video

John Nop owns the Boston Fish Market in Clayton County - an establishment that has only been open for a few months

The father shared that one of the men ordered his staff to lay on the floor as the other strolled in holding a gun.

'He asked me to take them to the safe. I said, "I don't know where it is." They said, "You're the owner, you know where it is,"' Nop said.

Nop explained that one of the men then took him to a back room, adding that the robber 'made me open the safe for them, had the gun to my face. They said, "You go open for me".'

Family terrorized in armed robbery at their restaurant. “I’m going to shoot your Dad.” Police ask for help to identity gunmen. Live report at 4pm. pic.twitter.com/ic2XPbtGZx — Tom Regan (@tomreganWSB) December 20, 2019

The robbers emptied the safe and then ordered Nop to open the cash register. One of his four children jumped up to help their father at that moment.

At that point, one of the armed robbers reportedly said to Nop's children: 'I'm going to kill your daddy'.

The dad said: 'It's horrible, they're traumatized.'

Nop's wife, Phirun Khoun, added: 'I'm very scared and frightened for my family and anyone else here.'

The couple called for increased police patrol in the area and also said that there was not enough lights around the side and back of their restaurant.

Surveillance footage shows the suspects walking around the building, prior to the holdup.

'We are helpless here, and we're trying to get as much help as we can because this place needs to be more safe,' Khoun said.