Was J.K. Rowling channelling her fearless hero Harry Potter when she took on the trans rights lobby?

Was J.K. Rowling channelling her fearless hero Harry Potter when she took on the trans rights lobby?

She spoke out in support of a woman who had lost her job after questioning Government plans to let people declare their own gender.

The woman concerned, Maya Forstater, 45, believes that 'sex is a biological fact and is immutable'. And that therefore transgender people cannot change their sex.

Perhaps she's right, perhaps she's wrong, but surely she has a right to voice an opinion on one of the most vexed issues of our time.

Not according to the employment tribunal judge she faced. Incredibly, he deemed that her view was 'not worthy of respect' — and might even constitute 'unlawful harassment' of trans people.

Not worthy of respect? Harassment? Simply for expressing a firmly held view? Clearly Rowling felt as incredulous — and angry — as most reasonable people would over this extraordinary judgment.

For, make no mistake, she will not have made her decision to intervene lightly. She has a formidable reputation to protect as well as 14.6 million Twitter followers.

Now, all of them will have seen her tweet on the issue: 'Dress however you please. Call yourself whatever you like. Sleep with any consulting adult who will have you. Live your life in peace and security. But force women out of their jobs for stating that sex is real?'

Rowling clearly felt she had to take a stand — and in doing so has been subjected to an onslaught of abuse on social media.

Maya Forstater, 46, the tax expert fired for saying trans women are not actually women

Yet she could not be further from a reactionary — she is an incredibly successful, self-made, Labour-supporting feminist who has actually endured criticism for being so politically correct.

What she is doing is expressing the concerns of millions over the politicisation of transgender issues without sufficient debate.

We now have self-identifying female prisoners raping other women in jail, women frightened to change in female changing rooms and doctors expressing deep concerns — even though they work in the field.

A 13-year-old girl, unnamed to protect her from the trans trolls, is fighting her local Oxfordshire council's decision to make their schools' changing rooms and their toilets gender neutral.

The 'tiny teen girl' — vulnerable and confused in the throes of puberty — says it would be 'embarrassing'.

What Rowling is doing is suggesting we should stand up for people like this little girl. And take the battle to the trolls — just as Harry Potter would.

Simon Cowell proudly shows off his taut tummy on holiday in Barbados having lost 2st after becoming a vegan.

A coincidence of course, that his massive weight loss coincides with a commensurate loss of viewers on his shows The X Factor and Britain's Got Talent. Maybe Si needs the occasional steak to put some muscle back into his TV career.

The Prince of smiles

Sad news that Prince Philip has been taken to hospital just before Christmas. I wish him well and was reminded of the one time I met him.

Next to me in the greeting line for the Queen was Gill Hicks, a woman who lost her legs in the 7/7 bombings, yet still managed to walk down the aisle for her wedding.

Prince Philip asked her husband why he was there, as there were no 'plus ones' on the invites, and he said: 'I'm only here to support my wife.'

'I know exactly how you feel,' the Duke replied wryly, with a crinkled smile that lit up the whole room.

The sight of Prince Charles escorting his mother to deliver the Queen's Speech seemed like a tipping point

The sight of Prince Charles escorting his mother to deliver the Queen's Speech seemed like a tipping point.

The man who was so vilified after the breakdown of his marriage — and who even his ex-wife Diana claimed would never be King — is now regal and at ease.

The way the Queen placed her hand in his, it felt almost that she was placing her trust in him.

Twenty years ago I'd never have said it, but today I truly believe the Crown is safe with Charles.

Kate keeps love at a safe distance

Kate Beckinsale says the secret to a lasting romance is to not live with your partner and have separate homes.

Given her first long-time love was the self-absorbed, self-righteous actor Michael Sheen, I'd have thought homes on separate continents would be preferable.

Kate Beckinsale says the secret to a lasting romance is to not live with your partner and have separate homes

It was only a matter of time before the snowflake generation called for the banning of Father Christmas, to be replaced by the 'gender-neutral' Santa. Although it isn't, as Santa is Spanish for a female saint. Confusing? It sure is. How long before one of the Three Wise Men self-identifies as a woman in the kids' nativity play?

Some cook called Jason Atherton has made a grovelling apology to Nigella Lawson. He called her a 'f***ing public schoolgirl' who is 'full of s***' after she liked an Instagram message that was gently disobliging about his latest restaurant.

Atherton may own four Michelin-starred restaurants, but it's time he realised that most of us would prefer Nigella's chilli con carne to his Barbary duck with cherries and chocolate ganache — and that you mess with our Domestic Goddess at your peril.

Some cook called Jason Atherton has made a grovelling apology to Nigella Lawson

Westminster wars...

What joy to see Boris squash that little haggis Nicola Sturgeon, refusing point blank her demand for another Scottish independence referendum. He reminded her we had just had a referendum, a national election, which he won, on behalf of the UK.

Corbyn's Marxist Momentum mob wants Manchester MP Rebecca Long-Bailey to replace him as leader 'cos, er, she's a woman from the North-West and has a regional accent. Crikey, did they learn nothing from the election when another irritating, inexperienced young woman with bad teeth took the helm of a major political party and steered it into near oblivion? And yes, I do mean Jo Swinson.

Even the worst defeat since the 1930s did not humble Jeremy Corbyn. He blamed the media and Brexit, claiming he had won the moral argument. Tell it to the leeks, you loser. Time to retire to your allotment.

My 2019 heros

My hero of the year is a toss up between two blonds — Boris Johnson, 55, who is freeing us from the chains of the EU, and three-year-old Stefan Snowden, who on his Paw Patrol truck trundled for miles along an A-road to get help after his father had a seizure.

One has saved a nation, the other his dad. Call me sentimental, but the crown goes to Stefan.

And my heroine of the year has to be Fleabag creator Phoebe Waller-Bridge, the modern-day Bridget Jones. Too tall, quite pretty, rubbish at sex, desperately seeking happiness. A grateful nation salutes you Phoebe — and loves you just the way you are.

Ten times doctors advised 21-year-old Chloe Conlin to abort the child she was carrying, as her daughter would be born with half a heart. Ten times she refused.

One year on, 14-month-old Miyah is home, being cuddled in mum's arms even though the same doctors said she would not see her first birthday.

What a beautiful symbol Miyah is of the spirit of Christmas, a time when we not only celebrate a new child born in a manger but we also remember the hardship suffered by his pregnant mother who was shunned by those from whom she sought help.

For those half-dreading the family Christmas, just remember there will come a time when you'd give anything to see Dad in a Santa hat again and Mum faking delight over a bar of scented soap.

I've an old-fashioned Polaroid camera. They're better than selfies — you have an instant snap in your hand that can be propped up on the mantelpiece. I can't photograph my Mum and Dad this year, as they died in January, but I have a lorry load of memories.

I wish a Happy Christmas to all of you. Hold your family and friends close while you can.