She recently admitted she will miss walking in the now cancelled Victoria Secret Fashion Show.

But Alessandra Ambrosio didn't let her sorrow show as she put on a playful display at the MDL Beast Festival in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia on Friday.

The Brazilian model, 38, cut a stylish figure in a camel coat and leather trousers as she joined the likes of a chic Stella Maxwell, 29, at the event.

Looking good: Alessandra Ambrosio put on a playful display at the MDL Beast Festival in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia on Friday

The star tied together her coat and white hoodie combo with a black leather satchel, which was belted around her middle.

Completing her look, Alessandra added a pair of black leather trousers and patent lace-up boots.

She added a subtle palette of make-up to her face, while her brunette locks were worn in a simple, loose style.

Alessandra was in good company at the bash, with fellow model Stella also putting on a stylish display.

Style: The Brazilian model, 38, cut a stylish figure in a camel coat and leather trousers as she joined the likes of a chic Stella Maxwell, 29, at the event

Her look: The star tied together her coat and white hoodie combo with a black leather satchel, which was belted around her middle

The catwalk star opted for an androgynous look, donning a slouchy, pale grey checked trouser suit.

She wore a plain black jumper beneath the two-piece and pulled the look together with a black belt and chunky black lace-up boots.

The star also posed with a long black coat, which she slipped on and off for the camera.

Stella kept her make-up look simple for the night, while her blonde tresses tumbled over her shoulders in loose waves.

Stepping out: Completing her look, Alessandra added a pair of black leather trousers and patent lace-up boots

Lovely: She added a subtle palette of make-up to her face, while her brunette locks were worn in a simple, loose style

Model behaviour: Alessandra was in good company at the bash, with fellow model Stella also putting on a stylish display

The music bash features five stages and plays hours of non-stop electronic music from a host of DJs and musicians.

Also in attendance was Sofia Richie, 21, who kept things smart with a leopard print jacket and worn with a plain black jumper and trousers.

She wore her blonde locks in a sleek straight parting and showed off her flawless complexion with deftly touches of make-up.

Sofia looked ready to party for day two of the three day festival as she posed for photos with her pal Joan Smalls.

So chic: The catwalk star opted for an androgynous look, donning a slouchy, pale grey checked trouser suit

Wild thing: Also in attendance was Sofia Richie, 21, who kept things smart with a leopard print jacket and worn with a plain black jumper and trousers

Glam: She wore her blonde locks in a sleek straight parting and showed off her flawless complexion with deftly touches of make-up

All black everything: And ever the fashionista, Joan, 31, did not putting a foot wrong in the style stakes as she joined Sofia

And ever the fashionista, Joan, 31, did not putting a foot wrong in the style stakes as she joined Sofia.

The Puerto Rican beauty kept things simple in an all-black ensemble as she partied up a storm.

Joan teamed a black shirt and top, with black skinny jeans and black trainers.

Fabulous: The Puerto Rican beauty kept things simple in an all-black ensemble as she partied up a storm

All angles: Joan teamed a black shirt and top, with black skinny jeans and black trainers

Jump to it: The catwalk star pulled an elaborate pose as she enjoyed the festivities at the bash

Hey there! The ladies were clearly pleased to see each other as they threw their hands in the air and larked around before embracing

While her brunette locks hung around her shoulders in voluminous curls.

The ladies were clearly pleased to see each other as they threw their hands in the air and larked around before embracing.

Sofia and Joan made for an amusing sight as they pulled a number of poses and faces as they reunited at the music event.

Hilarious: Sofia and Joan made for an amusing sight as they pulled a number of poses and faces as they reunited at the music event

Fun times: The duo larked around as they greeted each other at the festival

Eye-catching: Meanwhile, Cindy Bruna, 25, turned heads in a bright, bold red ensemble

Lady in red: The French beauty wowed in an oversized red shirt and matching trousers, which she paired with box-fresh white trainers

Attendance: Elsewhere, actor Armie Hammer, 33, donned traditional dress as he enjoyed the music at the festival

Meanwhile, Cindy Bruna, 25, turned heads in a bright, bold red ensemble.

The French beauty wowed in an oversized red shirt and matching trousers, which she paired with box-fresh white trainers.

Elsewhere, actor Armie Hammer, 33, donned traditional dress as he enjoyed the music at the festival.

Poser: Romee Strijd, 24, put on a pouty display at the Beast festival

Look at me: The Dutch model wowed in a red blazer and black trousers as she posed up a storm at the event

Pals: Blogger and Romee's BFF Negin Mirsalehi looked very chic in an all-black outfit

Casual: Gossip Girl star Ed Westwick, 32, cut a casual figure at the festival

Dutch model Romee Strijd, 24, meanwhile put on a stunning display in a red blazer and black trousers.

Other stars also in attendance included Ed Westwick, Luka Sabbat and Rose Bertram.

Pose: Kourtney Kardashian's rumoured ex Luka Sabbat was also in attendance

On fine form: Belgian model Rose Bertram donned a sparkly silver co-ord for the night

Wow: Yovanna Ventura put on a sizzling display as she posed in Saudi Arabia

Looking lovely: Inga Rubenstein and Irina Shayk posed for a snap