Labour leadership hopeful Emily Thornberry has promised she would quit the top job if the polls showed she was doomed to defeat or if a majority of the party's MPs wanted her out.

The shadow foreign secretary's comments will be seen as an attempt to show she would be a different kind of leader to Jeremy Corbyn who refused to resign in 2016 despite losing a vote of no confidence.

He also led Labour into the 2019 general election despite woeful personal poll ratings with his party trailing the Tories by double digits for most of the campaign.

Ms Thornberry's intervention came as it emerged that Rebecca Long-Bailey, the shadow business secretary and leadership frontrunner, once suggested she wanted to rule Labour 'with an iron fist'.

Emily Thornberry, pictured in London on Friday last week, is running to replace Jeremy Corbyn as Labour leader

Mr Corbyn, pictured in the Commons last week, has promised to step down in the new year once a successor has been elected after he led Labour to its worst general election results since the 1930s

Ms Long-Bailey is yet to announce her candidacy in the Labour leadership race but she is currently the favourite and is expected to be backed by Mr Corbyn.

The leadership contest will get underway in January with Mr Corbyn having committed to stepping down once his successor has been elected after he led the party to its worst general election results since the 1930s.

It is due to be a crowded field when the battle finally gets underway but Ms Thornberry is one of only a handful of candidates to have formally thrown their hat into the ring so far.

Writing in The Mirror she said she believed the next leader must make a 'solemn promise' to step aside if they are unable to return the party to power.

She said: 'I will always put our party first. If I am elected leader, and if there is any stage where I know that I can't persuade people, and I can't get us back into power, I will stand down and give one of my brilliant colleagues the chance to win.'

Her comments will be seen as a direct criticism of Mr Corbyn who refused to recognise the legitimacy of a no confidence vote held in June 2016 when Labour MPs voted 172 to 40 against him.

He also suffered a wave of shadow cabinet resignations but he would not back down and went on to solidify his grip over the party.

Rebecca Long-Bailey, pictured at Labour conference in Brighton in September, is yet to declare her candidacy for the leadership but she is the frontrunner for the top job

A new poll published before the election showed he was the most unpopular opposition leader in 45 years.

The Ipsos Mori survey published in September gave Mr Corbyn a net satisfaction rating of -60.

Meanwhile, Ms Long-Bailey's campaign suffered a set back today after the Daily Telegraph reported she said in 2015 that she wanted to rule Labour 'with an iron fist'.

In an interview with the Salford Star before she became an MP she said she could not control Labour members criticising her predecessors.

'I can't rule it with an iron fist, much as I'd love to,' she said.