She previously revealed that her seven-year-old daughter will be brutally honest when critiquing her style.

But Sienna Miller didn't need to worry about disappointing in the style stakes on Friday night, as she nailed festive chic while leading the glamour at Noel Gallagher's Christmas bash at Scott's restaurant in Mayfair.

The actress, 37, looked incredible as she stepped out in a stylish sequinned green dress for the party, where she was joined by a glum-looking Matt Smith and her close pal Poppy Delevingne and husband James Cook.

Stunning: Sienna Miller nailed festive chic while leading the glamour at Noel Gallagher's Christmas bash at Scott's restaurant in Mayfair in a green sequinned dress on Friday night

Ensuring she was dressed to impress, Sienna opted for the glittering number that skimmed over her frame and highlighted her svelte physique.

The Alfie star added a boost to her ensemble with a pair of metallic silver heels and offset her frock with a colourful pair of pillar-box red tasseled earrings.

Sienna left her blonde locks down in her trademark tousled style and finished off her glamorous look with a minimal make-up look.

Opting for natural tones, the beauty accentuated her already flawless complexion with a sweep of bronzer, gold eye shadow and nude lip.

Going solo: Matt Smith looked glum as he stepped out for the party in an all-black getup

Gorgeous: Sienna looked sensational in her glittering ankle-length number which she paired with silver metallic heels

So festive! She teamed her dress with neutral make-up and wore her blonde locks down in her trademark tousled style (pictured above with Sara MacDonald)

Girls just wanna have fun! Sienna was seen linking arms with Noel Gallagher's wife Sara MacDonald inside the bash (pictured right)

Helping hand: The actress was seen enlisting the help of James Cook on her arrival

Beaming: Poppy Delevingne, meanwhile, looked lovely in a glittering gold headband, tailored felt coat and suede boot heels

Sparkly: Sienna looked sensational in her sparkly green sequinned dress as she headed home after the star-studded bash

Details: The star accessorised her look with red tasselled pendant earrings

Sienna was seen enlisting the help of her friend Poppy's husband James on her arrival to the party, as he guided her inside.

James cut a cool figure in a printed shirt and velvet blazer jacket, while model and actress Poppy wrapped up from the cold in a tailored felt coat.

Jazzing up her ensemble, she was pictured sporting a glittering gold head band and appeared in high spirits as she joined Noel and his wife Sara MacDonald for the occasion.

Sara made for a very leggy display at the bash, stepping out in a fitted black mini dress that came complete with a thigh-skimming hem and plunging neckline that was adorned with black sequins.

Dapper: Noel looked dapper in his all-black ensemble of jeans, a high-neck top and a leather jacket

Animated: The star put on an animated display as he posed for photos outside Scott's restaurant in Mayfair

Pals: Poppy, her husband James and Noel all pictured together outside the venue

Having a ball: The model and actress seemed to be enjoying herself with Noel (L) and his wife Sara (R) while in the back of a taxi

Stealing the show: Noel's wife Sara made for a very leggy display in a thigh-skimming mini dress, while Noel favoured an edgy look that included a leather biker jacket

Cool and collected: Noel looked every inch the rock star while hosting the festive party

She wore a pair of black barely-there heels that boasted a diamond cuff around the ankle and left her lightened locks down in drawn-out curls.

Noel, meanwhile, followed suit in an all-black ensemble, but gave his outfit an edge with his leather biker jacket.

Also dressed in all black was former Doctor Who star Matt Smith, who arrived noticeably solo to the rocker's party, that later continued at London hotspot, Chiltern Firehouse.

Matt was seen looking rather glum in the capital, as he stepped out sporting lace-up boots and a stylish mac and scarf over his blazer jacket.

The actor, 37, has reportedly split from his girlfriend of five years, Lily James.

Stony-faced: Like Noel, former Doctor Who star Matt also favoured an all-black getup and appeared solo at the party, following his rumoured split from girlfriend Lily James

Downcast: The actor didn't seem to be in the best of moods as he left with a pal

According to reports, Matt and the Mamma Mia! Here We Go Again are thought to have parted ways a couple of months ago, after tensions grew due to their busy workload and a growing discomfort over Matt's close friendships with his female co-stars.

Both stars have previously been candid about their plans for the future, but while Matt, gushed in 2018 that he was 'thinking about kids quite a lot,' Lily admitted she's 'gone through different phases of wanting and not wanting to get married.

Matt told Desert Island Discs in 2018: 'I am thinking about kids quite a lot. I’d like a lot of them. A lot of my friends are having children and, dare I say, I think I’d be quite a good dad.'

Lily though has been open about her changing views on settling down, admitting in January 2019: 'I've gone through different phases of wanting and not wanting to get married. I don't know where I sit with it now. What matters is the relationship and how you feel about each other.

All over? According to reports, Matt and his actress girlfriend Lily have split after five years

Jemima Khan was also invited to the bash at Chiltern Firehouse

Fashionable: The actress, 45, stepped out in leather legging and a black jumper

Pop of purple: Mary Charteris caught the eye in a lilac fluffy coat, which she teamed with grey skintight legging

'I come from the most incredible family, so that means a lot to me. Eventually, sharing your life with a family is the most important thing.'

Addressing their rumoured split, a source told The Sun: 'Things haven’t been right for a while, and a few months ago they decided to finally end it properly.

'It has been difficult because they have many mutual friends, so hopefully it will all stay civilised. But for now the relationship is formally off.'

The insider added the 'relationship had been under strain for some time and there were rows about their schedules which meant long periods away from each other - and often close to other stars'.

Matt and Lily first started dating in 2014 after meeting on the set of Pride and Prejudice and Zombies, after the Doctor Who actor split from model Daisy Lowe in 2013.