Trent Alexander-Arnold has admitted that a pep talk from Jurgen Klopp has forced him to power through the tough moments on the pitch as the Liverpool boss wants his side to show no signs of weakness to opponents.

The Liverpool star has been a staple name on Klopp's team sheet since making his debut for his boyhood club in 2016, with the Anfield faithful watching the youngster's development first hand.

Klopp's side have developed a reputation for playing with a high level of intensity and the 21-year-old has admitted that a stern talking to changed his approach to fatigue on the pitch.

Trent Alexander-Arnold's attitude to fatigue has changed since a pep talk from Jurgen Klopp

Speaking to The Times, Alexander-Arnold shared that his body language was assessed by staff at Melwood.

'There was a lot of focus on my body language on the pitch,' he says. 'If I got tired, I would slouch. I would start crouching down, getting cramp and stretching it off.

'The manager always told me it was a bad sign if my opposite number sees me blowing because then he thinks, "I can get at him here, he is losing his concentration."

The Liverpool star's body language was assessed, being told it gives opponents motivation

Now, the full back looks to capitalise on opponent's fatigue for his side's own advantage

The full back now says that he uses opponent's fatigue as added motivation to put his foot down and help his side seize the advantage.

'If I see a left back, or left winger, getting tired then it gives me a boost. Or if I see Mo [Salah] giving their left winger the runaround, then I am thinking just give the ball to Mo.

'You don't want to be that weak link in the team. I had to really concentrate on that and make sure that when I was tired, I didn't show it to the rest of the world.'

Liverpool are currently in Doha ahead of the Club World Cup final on Saturday against Flamengo, before returning to Premier League action where they will be hoping to extend their 10 point lead when they travel to Leicester.