Arsenal have shared comprehensive behind the scenes footage of Mikel Arteta's first day as the club's new manager.

The 37-year-old, who was officially unveiled as Unai Emery's successor on Friday, was filmed on his tour around London Colney, and enjoyed a brief exchange with former teammate and head of academy Per Mertesacker.

During Arteta's visit to the club's analysis room, the Spaniard could even be seen enquiring over the use of cameras during training and joked with staff that they should prepare for a heavy workload.

Arsenal shared comprehensive footage of Mikel Arteta's first day as the club's new manager

The former midfielder was accompanied by a camera crew as he was taken around the training complex he would have become familiar with during his playing days in North London.

Arteta made sure to shake the hands of many members of staff upon his arrival, and was promptly whisked away to conduct a number of interviews and photo shoots.

But during the video, posted on the club's official website, Arteta's reunion with Mertesacker soon became focused on the resources that would be made available to him.

'You're going to have a lot of work to do,' Arteta says. 'You know that yes?'

The conversation about camera angles and Arsenal's use of drone footage then takes place, before Arteta is hurried away for the rest of the hectic afternoon's formalities.

The former Everton and Rangers star had also been warmly greeted by Gunners' Head of Football Raul Sanllehi and Technical Director Edu in the corridors of the state of the art facility.

The head coach reunited with Per Mertesacker and spoke about the club's football analysis

Arteta later labelled his new office 'classy' and was visibly pleased with the plaque on the door, which already had the name of the new manager etched into it.

And shortly after meeting his new players for the first time on Friday morning, Arteta outlined his expectations and fired a warning that it would be his way or the highway.

He said: 'I have to try and convince the players about what I want to do, how I want to do it, they have to start accepting a different process, a different way of thinking.

'I want to get all the staff and everybody at the club with the same mindset. We have to build a culture that has to sustain the rest.

'If you don't have the right culture, in the difficult moments, the tree is going to shake, so my job is to convince everybody that this is how we are going to live.

'If you are going to be part of this organisation it has to be in these terms and in this way.'

Arteta had fired a warning shot at his new players and also outlined his expectations on Friday

The ex-Manchester City assistant opted to depart the Etihad and pen a three-and-a-half year deal with the struggling Gunners, with negotiations over a £2million compensation package being finalised this week.

The timing of Arteta's official unveiling is believed to have caught the reigning champions off guard, despite a series of meetings taking place on Monday to ensure the coach would soon step into his first ever management role.

Director Josh Kroenke had rubber stamped the appointment after holding a meeting with the chosen candidate in the evening, following earlier talks with managing director Vinai Venkatesham and chief negotiator Huss Fahmy at Arteta's Manchester home.