She's a blonde beauty who is new girlfriend of Brooklyn Beckham.

But Nicola Peltz was without her beau on Friday as she enjoyed a day out with her mother Claudina Heffner Peltz.

The stunning actress, 24, wrapped-up in a black padded jacket and a stylish hoodie as she walked just behind her mother, who opted for a faux fur jacket.

Family first: Nicola Peltz, 24, was without her beau Brooklyn Beckham, 20, on Friday as she enjoyed a day out with her mother Claudina Heffner Peltz

The Age Of Extinction star accessorised with a patterned handbag with a silver chain handle and kept a low profile in dark Matrix sunglasses.

Nicola and her mother had their honey-hued tresses pulled back into neat ponytails, showcasing their similar fashion sense and appearance.

Brooklyn, 20, and the actress were first photographed together at a Halloween party before sparking romance rumours when they were seen together three times in less than a week in October.

Wow: The stunning actress stunned in a black padded jacket and a stylish hoodie as she walked just behind her mother, who opted for a faux fur jacket

On Saturday, Brooklyn took things to the next level with Nicola by introducing her to his grandparents, Jackie and Tony Adams, during at rip to watch Thriller - Live at the Lyric Theatre in London

The aspiring photographer - who was also joined by his younger brothers Romeo, 17, and Cruz, 14 - appeared completely smitten with the screen star as they gazed adoringly at each other while tucking into some street food.

Romance chatter: Romeo and Nicola have been seen out together a number of times in Los Angeles (pictured together in October)

Brooklyn appeared in great spirits as he took his new love to watch a play with his mother's parents.

He has been linked to a string of women over the past few months following his split from model Hana Cross, including Canadian actress Natalie Ganzhorn, 21, and brunette actress Phoebe Torrance, 25.

Most recently it was claimed he and Lottie Moss had a 'secret fling' before he started dating his now ex-girlfriend Hana.