Two of the nine women who filed suit against late pedophile Jeffrey Epstein earlier this month say he lured them to his Manhattan mansion with promises to further their career and employed them as masseuses before raping them.

‘He never asked my age,’ one of the accusers, ‘Olivia,’ told Fox News.

In 2004, ‘Olivia’ was a struggling 19-year-old actress struggling to make ends meet.

That’s when her roommate told her about an opportunity to make money giving massages to Epstein, who she was told was a wealthy man who could benefit her career.

‘She thought that I might be interested in it,’ ‘Olivia’ said.

Two more women have gone public with claims they were sexually assaulted by Jeffrey Epstein (seen above in March 2017)

‘I really did just go into it with a, “Yeah, this guy could help me,” and, “Yeah, this might be an answer.”

‘The pitch was, “You can go there. And he'll pay you $300 cash. And you only have to massage him in your underwear and for 30 minutes. That's it.”

‘And I was like, “Okay. That doesn't sound that crazy or bad”.’

A few months later, a car was sent to pick ‘Olivia’ up and drive him to Epstein’s Upper East Side mansion.

When she arrived at his home, Epstein was waiting for her in his massage room.

He had $300 in cash as well. Almost immediately, ‘Olivia’ says he told her to strip down to her underwear and give her a massage.

She says Epstein never once asked her how old she was.

‘And at the time, I had braces,’ ‘Olivia’ told Fox News.

‘I looked very young.

‘Looking back at it, it just adds to the disgust and kind of horror of the whole thing.

‘And just to be clear, I said, “No.”

‘Like, I didn't want to be there, when he was doing these things to me.’

For up to five times a month, ‘Olivia’ was giving Epstein massages.

This went on for a few years. Then, Epstein allegedly assaulted her by performing oral sex on her without her consent.

‘Olivia’ also alleges that she was forced into performing oral sex on Epstein.

‘I didn't want him to go d*** on me. And I didn't want to go d*** on him,’ ‘Olivia’ said.

‘And I didn't want to do any of it.

‘The difference between that first day and the optimism [I had] was so different than two years later and what I'm clearly still dealing with now.

‘It's just - I don't know how such a powerful person can do this and get away with something like this for so long.’

‘Olivia’ says that on several occasions, Epstein masturbated in front of her and forced her onto the massage table. He is also alleged to have coerced her to touch herself.

Epstein is also alleged to have used massage tools on her.

He also tried to sway her with gifts, including lingerie and concert tickets.

Epstein frequently promised to help ‘Olivia’ with her acting career, according to the lawsuit.

The women allege that the abuse took place over a period of years at Epstein's home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan

‘He knew that I wanted to be an actress. He fed on that,’ she says.

‘He started making promises. Like, “I want to support you. I want to help you. I know powerful people.”

‘And he was just such a master manipulator that he very quickly was like, “I can introduce you to Harvey Weinstein” and [said], “You know, if you lose weight, if you do this, if you do what I tell you to do, you can make it”.’

‘Olivia’ recalls one instance in which Epstein forced himself on her despite her protests. It would be the last time she saw him before cutting off communication.

‘He didn't want to stop,’ she says.

‘The last time I went, I said, “No,” repeatedly.

‘And he kept pushing himself on top of me and doing things to me that I did not want him to do.

‘And after that, I just felt like, “I can't do this anymore”.’

The other plaintiff who spoke to Fox News, ‘Lily’, says she was a 19-year-old college student looking to break in to the fashion industry when she first met Epstein in June 2001.

‘I was asked by a friend if I wanted to meet an influential person who could potentially help me in guiding me in my career,’ she told Fox News.

‘Apparently [Epstein] had a lot of connections and knew a lot of people.

‘That's what I was told.’

‘Lily’ alleges that years of abuse began immediately after she met Epstein at his Manhattan home.

‘It was a small room, so I felt trapped and in fear,’ she said.

‘And I didn't know what was about to happen.

‘I felt as though even though I was in fear, he was manipulating me to feel like he was going to woo me or take - you know, take care of me or be able to show me things that I wouldn't otherwise be able to experience.

The nine women said Epstein's abuses spanned more than two decades, often with help from his associates. Epstein is pictured back in 1995 with then-girlfriend, Ghislaine Maxwell, who has been accused of being Epstein's main associate. Ms Maxwell's whereabouts is currently unknown

‘I mean it's taken me so many years to even understand what had happened.

‘And I really don't think I'll ever completely understand his motives.’

She added: ‘I feel like I didn't understand, so I, therefore, couldn't stop what was happening.

‘He just, there was a way that he knew how to control you.’

‘Lily’ said she was flown by Epstein to his private island in the Caribbean, where the abuse continued.

‘He also had an office in St. Thomas, and I was abused there too,’ she said.

‘That's actually when he raped me.’

The lawsuit filed against Epstein's estate by nine of his alleged victims earlier this month alleges that the financier's sexual abuse of girls and young women began as early as 1985 and he targeted victims as young as 13 years old.

The accusers, known as Jane Doe I through Jane Doe IX, are among more than 20 women so far to formally seek compensation from the late financier's $577 million estate.

Epstein died August 10, while he was awaiting trial on unrelated charges in a Manhattan prison.

Epstein's death, at age 66, was ruled a suicide and came five weeks after his arrest on federal charges that he trafficked dozens of underage girls from at least 2002 to 2005. He had pleaded not guilty.

Lawyers for Epstein's estate did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the lawsuit, which was filed in a New York state court in Manhattan.

The plaintiffs' lawyer, Jordan Merson, said he is still working to determine the identity of all of Epstein's 'associates.'

Epstein and Maxwell are pictured together in the 2000s. She has not spoken publicly since Epstein's death in August

Meanwhile, one accuser, Jane Doe II, said in court filings that Epstein sexually assaulted, abused and battered her starting around 1985, when she was 23.

Another accuser, Jane Doe I, said she was 14 when abuse began around 1990, while Jane Doe III said she was just 13 when her abuse began around 2003.

On November 14, the executors of Epstein's estate, Darren Indyke and Richard Kahn, asked a judge in the US Virgin Islands to establish a voluntary restitution fund to compensate Epstein's victims.

The fund's administrators would include high-powered attorney Kenneth Feinberg, who has overseen payments on claims tied to the September 11 terror attacks and the 2010 BP oil spill in 2010

The latest accusers join a long line of women who have spoken out claiming to be victims of Epstein.

Just 10 days after Epstein's death, three other women filed a lawsuit against the financier's estate.

Those women allege they were recruited, subjected to unwanted sex acts, and controlled by Epstein and a 'vast enterprise' of co-conspirators.

Epstein has been the subject of at least half a dozen civil suits stretching back to 2008.

Prince Andrew is pictured with Maxwell (second from left in green) and Epstein back in 2000

One of the suits, filed by Virginia Roberts back in 2015, is currently causing a crisis for the the Royal Family, with Giuffre claiming she was trafficked to have sex with Epstein's friend, Prince Andrew, when she was just 17.

Andrew has denied having sex with Giuffre and says he doesn't have any recollection of meeting her - despite a photo that appears to show him with his arm around her waist.

Andrew, 59, has apologized for his association with Epstein, who died in prison in August in what New York City officials ruled was a suicide. He was facing sex-trafficking charges after earlier serving time for other sex offenses.

The disgraced prince says he is willing to cooperate with appropriate law enforcement inquiries if required to do so. He also faces possible subpoenas from women who are suing Epstein´s estate who believe Andrew may have valuable testimony about abuse they suffered.

The scandal is one of the worst to grip the royal household in recent decades and has severely tarnished the reputation of the prince - one of Queen Elizabeth II´s four children.