Roxy Jacenko's daughter Pixie Curtis, eight, could be worth $21million by the time she's 18, with her highly-successful hair bow line, Pixie's Bows.

And now the 39-year-old businesswoman's son Hunter, five, looks set to follow in his sister's footsteps.

In a video shared to the PR queen's Instagram page on Saturday, Hunter announced a business venture focusing on hats and bow ties.

Look out, Pixie! Roxy Jacenko's adorable five-year-old son Hunter Curtis (pictured) has announces a business venture, that's set to rival the tot's hair bow line, Pixie's Bows

Dressed in a white shirt, coordinating shorts and a black bow tie, Hunter relaxed inside a cabana at the family's $6.6million home in Sydney's Vaucluse.

He concealed his gaze behind gold-rimmed aviator sunglasses and kept a close eye on his pet pooch, a Pomeranian named Oreo.

In the clip, Roxy asked the tot about his future business plans and what his upcoming website will focus on.

Too cute! In a video shared to Roxy's Instagram page on Saturday, the pint-sized budding entrepreneur said he hopes to launch a website with a business focusing on hats and bow ties

Business in his genes: Hunter will have some stiff competition, with Australian retail giant Myer already stocking Pixie's lucrative hair bow line, Pixie's Bows

'Hunter's hats and Hunter's bow ties,' the budding entrepreneur proudly told his famous mother.

Hunter will have some stiff competition, with Australian retail giant Myer already stocking Pixie's lucrative hair bow line, Pixie's Bows.

A retail expert told Daily Mail Australia in August last year, that if the brand's popularity continues to grow, the company is projected to have a $3million-per-year annual turnover by 2023, at which time Pixie will be 11.

Lucrative: A retail expert told Daily Mail Australia last year, that if Pixie's Bows is projected to have a $3million-per-year annual turnover by 2023. Pictured: Roxy, 39, and Pixie, eight

Bringing in the big bucks! If this prediction proves correct, Pixie could be worth a whopping $21million by the time she turns 18

If this prediction proves correct, Pixie could be worth a whopping $21million by the time she turns 18.

Despite her privileged upbringing, Roxy is determined that Pixie understands the value of hard work.

'She assists with barcoding and separating styles and colourways,' Roxy told Daily Mail Australia last year.

Values: Instilling a strong work ethic in her children is very important to Roxy, as she doesn't want them growing up to believe 'everything will be handed to them'

Doing it for herself: Despite having wealthy parents herself, began her professional life working at McDonald's as a teenager

Instilling a strong work ethic in her children is very important to the entrepreneur, as she doesn't want them growing up to believe 'everything will be handed to them'.

'It was not for me and it will not be for them,' said Roxy who, despite having wealthy parents herself, began her professional life working at McDonald's as a teenager.

Roxy also explained how she plans on steering her daughter away from extravagant spending, and instead encouraging her to seek out wise investments.

'I will tell her to invest in property from a young age,' she said.

Roxy shares Pixie and Hunter with businessman Oliver Curtis, who she wed in 2012.