She has modelled for major brands including Tommy Hilfiger, Michael Kors and Chanel.

And Sofia Richie showed off her modelling credentials as she joined a slew of models at the MDL Beast Festival in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia on Friday.

The American beauty, 21, wrapped up in a chic leopard print coat for the music bash.

Walk on the wild side: Sofia Richie showed off her modelling credentials as she joined a slew of models at the MDL Beast Festival in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia on Friday

Sofia layered the coat of a black polo neck and complemented the look with black trousers and pointed boots.

She wore her blonde locks in a sleek straight parting and showed off her flawless complexion with deftly touches of make-up.

Sofia looked ready to party for day two of the three day festival as she posed for photos with her pal Joan Smalls.

Super stylish: The American beauty, 21, wrapped up in a chic leopard print coat for the music bash

Dancing the night away: Sofia looked ready to party for day two of the three day festival as she posed for photos with her pal Joan Smalls

The music bash features five stages and plays hours of non-stop electronic music from a host of DJs and musicians.

Sofia's arrival in Saudi Arabia comes after Vogue posted a video of her beauty tutorial which her famous father Lionel Richie hilariously ended up crashing.

Sofia was showing off her routine as she said: 'My dad probably gets his nails [done], hair [done] and facials more than me. I aspire to be like him.

'He’s obsessed with skincare. He’s the person who will come to me and say, ‘I love you, your skin looks dry. Maybe you need a facial?'

Then suddenly there was a knock on the door as the 70-year-old music legend came in and said: 'I am so sorry!'

Stunning: She wore her blonde locks in a sleek straight parting and showed off her flawless complexion with deftly touches of make-up

She asked her All Night Long hitmaker father what his beauty routine was and he replied: 'Sleep and water, and I guess that’s all I need to do. Bye bye.'

Sofia has famously been dating Scott Disick for two years.

Since getting together with Scott, Sofia has bonded with his long-term ex Kourtney Kardashian, the mother of his children Mason, nine, Penelope, seven, and Reign, four.

She has remained private about her romance with Scott, and earlier this year she explained her reasoning.

'I think a lot of people think they have to prove their relationships through social media and I'm just happy being private about my relationship,' Sofia said.

Covering the April issue of Tatler, she explained: 'It's not like I won't post pictures about it, but I like having my little private life.'