SFA chief executive Ian Maxwell has urged Boris Johnson to stump up the cash to rebuild Hampden as part of a British bid for the 2030 World Cup.

The Prime Minister has pledged to spend £500million on grassroots football in a quest to lure the finals to the home nations.

And the SFA want to use any cash ring-fenced for the World Cup bid to rebuild a state-of-the-art national stadium with wider community benefits.

Calls for investment into a Hampden Park rebuild have intensified from the Scottish FA

Vowing to create 2,000 new astroturf pitches and repair 20,000 grass surfaces before the election, the Prime Minister said the cash would help to win the UK and Ireland's bid for the 2030 tournament and create a legacy equal to that of the 2012 London Olympics.

'I will absolutely be asking the question as to whether Scotland gets a slice of that government money,' Maxwell told Sportsmail.

'We absolutely should. And I think if we are to be part of a joint 2030 World Cup bid, that's only right. It is a time of austerity. But it's big, big numbers football contributes to society as a whole.

'And when you look at the amounts we get from SportScotland and the government, that's great. But the more we can do, the more it benefits everybody.

'Football needs to be seen as a source for good. And that applies to Hampden, as well.' A three-man SFA sub-committee are drawing up a blueprint for a new Hampden in preparation for taking ownership from Queen's Park next summer.

And Maxwell believes the societal benefits of creating a world-class arena fit to host the World Cup would quickly outweigh the huge cost to the public purse.

Chief Executive Ian Maxwell has demanded that money is invested into the famous stadium

'From the minute we made the Hampden decision, there was always a recognition that we need to go and do something with the stadium now,' he said.

'The sub-committee have a blank canvas. There was a lot of talk about bringing the ends in, so let's go and have a look at what that would actually cost.

'How do we fund that and what are the benefits of that?

'On the back of the World Cup 2030 bid, there might be an opportunity to leverage that. I'd think that by midway through next year we will have an idea of where we want to go.

'We can't have it dragging on forever. We need to make proper use of the stadium.

'It could have a game-changing effect from a revenue perspective in terms of what comes in to the SFA and what that then allows us to give to the clubs in terms of development.' The SFA decision to purchase Hampden for £5m drew criticism from supporters dissatisfied by the views, the angle of terraces and the match-day experience. Built on its current site in 1903, the national stadium was revamped using £60m of lottery money as recently as 1994.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson said £500million will be invested in grass roots football

Due to host Euro 2020 games next summer, Maxwell fears the home of Scottish football will need a substantial refit to make it a venue fit to host World Cup games in 2030.

'I think there is a realisation that any stadium will need investment over a ten-year period,' he continued. 'The seats will rust, things will leak and need fixed.

'There has to be an understanding that there seems to be some kind of financial commitment to get the stadium up to scratch.

'The very last thing you want is to have a world-class event like the World Cup coming to a second-class stadium. That is not going to help anyone. We need to make sure it is absolutely fit for purpose.

'Look at the amount that was spent on infrastructure for the London Olympics.

'With the football stadium infrastructure we have in the UK, I wouldn't imagine it would take anything like that to get us ready for a World Cup in 2030.

'A report was done saying a World Cup could generate almost £9bn for the UK economy. To see that benefit coming in emphasises the point that giving us a couple of hundred million to upgrade Hampden is not a huge price to pay.'