Video captured the rettifying moment a bridge was destroyed by a collapsing cliff as torrential storms caused rivers to overflow in Peru.

The country was slammed with more than 12 hours of torrential rains Thursday, damaging roads and causing transportation nightmares in the northwestern department of La Libertad, the south-central city of Ayacucho and other areas.

Footage captured the moment the Cajas Bridge in La Libertad was destroyed when a cliff collapsed into the raging Cajas River.

A group of residents in La Libertad, Peru, stand by the back-end of a bridge moments before a huge chunk of a cliff collapsed and destroyed it

The Cajas Bridge was built just three years ago in the northwestern region of La Libertad

Dwellers in the south-central Peruvian city of Ayacucho could just stand and observe after flood waters caused a section of road to crumble apart

A group of motorists stood at the back-end of the bridge quickly dispersed before the collapse. Luckily, there were no injuries or casualties reported.

The structure had only been built three years ago, according to Peruvian newspaper El Comercio.

Soaked residents in Ayacucho could do nothing else but watch as a road lane was completely swallowed by the rushing waters.

First responders save a man from being swept up by flood waters in Peru after the country was soaked with more than 12 hours of rain Thursday

Cabs struggle to move through the flooded streets of Huánuco, Peru, after multiple regions in the South American country were slammed with torrential rains

Video footage from the central Peruvian department of Huánuco showed how difficult it was for pedestrians. including school children, and motorists to move through the streets in the rising waters.

Peruvian military personnel was deployed in Huánuco to rescue stranded residents whose homes were flooded.

State news agency Andina reported that the storm system caused severe damages in 50% to 100% of the plots of potatoes and corn that farmers had grown in the towns of Huancapi and Huayao.