She's the former Miss Universe who has since become a TV presenter and wellness entrepreneur.

And Rachael Finch encouraged her 'supportive' fans to 'cherish' every moment that the holiday season brings, in an Instagram post on Monday.

The 31-year-old accompanied her sweet message with a photo of herself in a leopard print bikini, taken earlier this week at Lord Howe Island in New South Wales.

Grateful: Bikini-clad Rachael Finch, 31, told Instagram fans on Monday that she's grateful for her 'supportive' fans, and encouraged them to 'cherish' every moment in life

'As Christmas Eve approaches, I want to wish you all the most amazing Christmas ever, and hope that you are doing whatever you love, wherever you are in the world,' Rachael began her post.

'I am so deeply grateful for all of the love and support you've shown me over the last year and beyond.'

The mother-of-two went on to say that she's so 'excited to get out of bed every day' and connect with her fans.

'Hopefully I can give you a little something to be a better version of yourself, and just feel healthier and happier,' she penned online. 'Soak up the holidays and take time to cherish what's in front of you.'

Feeling inspired: Rachael said she's so 'excited to get out of bed every day' and connect with her fans: 'Hopefully I can give you a little something to be a better version of yourself'

Final note: Rachael concluded her post by urging her followers to 'soak up the holidays and take time to cherish what's in front of you'

In the photo, Rachael showed off her toned figure as she stood in shallow water and pushed one hip to the side.

Her brunette locks were swept back off her face into a tight chignon, and she held onto a pair of trendy sunglasses.

Rachael balances motherhood with a burgeoning health and wellness empire.

The Myer ambassador shares daughter Violet, six, and son Dominic, two, with husband Michael Miziner who she wed in 2013.

Family: Rachael balances motherhood with a health and wellness empire. The brunette shares daughter Violet, six, and son Dominic, two, with husband Michael Miziner (all pictured)

Diversifying: Rachael told her online community last month that she's nearing the completion of her training course to become a yoga instructor

Rachael told her online community last month that she's nearing the completion of her training course to become a yoga instructor.

'I can't believe I've almost completed my yoga teacher training!' she captioned an Instagram photo of herself behind a make-shift work station at her kitchen bench.

'Just four days left in the classroom. It's actually been so much better than I expected.'

Alongside her teacher training, Rachael runs her own health and fitness program and activewear line.