But when the children react furiously, the parents say the elves just need to be taught to be nice

They scattered Lindt chocolate wrappers on floor and said the elves were trying to blame children Paige, seven, and Logan, six

This is the moment two children were left furious when their parents pranked them into believing a naughty 'Elf on the Shelf' had been on a chocolate eating frenzy - and were trying to put the blame on them.

Aimee Byliefeldt, 31, a customer representive, from Plymouth, captured her daughter Paige, seven, bursting into tears as it is discovered the elves have eaten their parents' Lindt chocolates over night.

With wrappers and the remnants of a box of Lindt chocs scattered over the floor, the children are caught looking at the scene in horror, as dad Dwayne Byliefeldt, tell them that the elves are trying to pin the blame on them.

As Paige can't stop apologising, son Logan, six, folds his arms in anger, loudly proclaiming, 'we should never have bought these elves!'

Dwayne, 33, a contact centre worker, can be heard trying to pacify his daughter telling her 'it's okay my gorgeous, it's just what elf on the shelves do!'

But furious Logan isn't quite ready to forgive as he shouts 'I didn't know they could eat! Daddy, no-one told me that'.

And while his dad tells him they just need to be taught to be nice, Logan isn't so sure they can change.

Two children from Plymouth were left furious when their parents pranked them into believing a naughty 'Elf on the Shelf' had been on a chocolate eating frenzy - and were trying to put the blame on them

Dwayne and Aimee Byliefeldt (pictured centre) captured their daughter Paige, seven, bursting into tears as it is discovered the elves have eaten their parents' Lindt chocolates over night

Threatening to no longer take part in 'Elf on the Shelf' Logan instead claims he's going to put them in a drawer at night.

Hilariously, Paige even begins to recount stories of what her classmates' elves have been up to in horror, with one breaking a TV, and another riding the family dog.

And as little Logan claims he heard them stamping around in the night, the kids rush to make sure the chocs go back to their parents, even offering up their own as an apology.

Logan appears so angry, he chooses to kick his elf Rex across the room, telling his dad, he wants to sell Rex and his sister's elf, Gold

Logan appears so angry, he chooses to kick his elf Rex across the room, telling his dad, he wants to sell Rex and his sister's elf, Gold.

Aimee added: 'I was in the background feeling extremely sorry for them while trying not to laugh.

'Paige is very sensitive over others and how others may feel so she was devastated that we had lost our chocolates and wanted to give us hers!

As Paige can't stop apologising, son Logan, six, folds his arms in anger, loudly proclaiming, 'we should never have bought these elves!'

'I honestly thought it was going to result in the kids laughing and saying that I was being silly again but it was the exact opposite as they really did think the elves had truly made the mess,' said dad Dwayne

'Logan just loves making us proud so by him being 'naughty' he thought we would be upset over the mess!

'My only words to Dwayne were ... you've traumatised your kids!

'Yet it seems all is forgiven now as the elves brought us all pyjamas the next morning to apologise and they were given rules on good behaviour to follow!'

Dwayne added: 'I honestly thought it was going to result in the kids laughing and saying that I was being silly again but it was the exact opposite as they really did think the elves had truly made the mess.'