Jordan Barrett and Bambi Northwood-Blyth cosied up together as they enjoyed a shopping trip in New York on Thursday.

The pair bundled up in black coats for the outing in SoHo, with male supermodel Jordan, 23, clutching two shopping bags from high-end retailer, Louis Vuitton.

It comes after Jordan - who hails from Byron Bay - sparked romance rumours with German-American singer and model, Caroline Vreeland, 32.

Stepping out: Jordan Barrett and Bambi Northwood-Blyth cosied up together as they went shopping in New York on Thursday (pictured)... after the male supermodel sparked romance rumours with Caroline Vreeland

On the day, Jordan looked stylish in an all-black ensemble, wearing baggy trousers with a white T-shirt, a hooded jacket and a puffer coat.

Australian model Bambi, 28, looked chic in a black coat, which she teamed with leather look boots and a designer handbag.

The brunette beauty - who was married to Australian designer Dan Single - appeared to be makeup free and wore her short locks out and over her shoulders.

Looking good! On the day, Jordan looked stylish in an all-black ensemble, wearing baggy trousers with a white T-shirt, a hooded jacket and a puffer coat. Australian model Bambi, 28, looked chic in a black coat, which she teamed with leather look boots and a designer handbag

The pair appeared to be in high spirits as they braved the chilly temperatures of New York for the outing, with Jordan wrapping his arm around Bambi as they walked.

The photogenic duo have known each other for years, being longtime friends.

Jordan, who is one of Australia's most successful modelling exports, has made headlines in recent months for his rumoured romance with Caroline Vreeland.

Making headlines: Jordan meanwhile has made headlines in recent months for his rumoured romance with Caroline Vreeland (pictured together in New York in September)

Familiar face: Caroline, a German-American singer, actress and model, is the great granddaughter of famed Harper's Bazaar editor-in-chief, Diana Vreeland. The pair have been seen kissing on a number of occasions

Caroline, a German-American singer, actress and model, is the great granddaughter of famed Harper's Bazaar editor-in-chief, Diana Vreeland.

In recent months, the pair have been seen kissing on a number of occasions.

Jordan - who has modelled for the likes of Balmain and Versace - has been linked to a string of high-profile female celebrities, including Paris Hilton, Lara Stone, Hailey Baldwin and Sofia Richie.

It was also once rumoured he was dating US model Bella Hadid.

However, she later clarified they were just good friends.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted Jordan and Bambi for comment in relation to this story.