Peterborough United owner Darragh MacAnthony has bemoaned Manchester United after revealing that the Premier League club are pricing lower league teams out of securing loan deals for youngsters.

It is not unusual to see top tier teams send out promising academy starlets to the lower tiers of football in order to cut their teeth and develop their growth as professional footballers.

Tottenham Hotspur and England star Harry Kane, for example, developed his game during loan spells at Leyton Orient, Millwall and Norwich.

Peterborough chairman Darragh MacAnthony has vented his fury at Manchester United

However, 43-year-old MacAnthony has slammed United over their handling of young players and limiting lower league clubs from signing players on loan.

In a string of posts shared on Twitter, the Peterborough owner responded to queries from fans as to why the club were unable to land promising talent from the Premier League.

The Peterborough chief shared his views on the £200k loan fee demanded by Man United

In response, the Irishman said: 'Back in summer but we gave up when they wanted a 200k loan fee. Usual s****.

'So not at moment. Hopefully the powers to be see one of their talented youngsters playing for us (ala Knight from Leicester) is more important than a loan fee we can't financially do budget wise.'

The owner also clarified that the figure did not include wages paid for the youngsters in question.

The policy may be due to Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's desire to integrate youngsters in his squad

Tahith Chong (left), Mason Greenwood (centre) and Angel Gomes (right) have had game time

MacAnthony was also asked about Posh's future transfer activity with the January window looming. The 43-year-old kept his cards close to his chest but eased fans' fears that star man Marcus Maddison may leave next month.

United's questionable loan policy may be down to manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's desire to promote youth players through the ranks, rather than casting them out on loan. The likes of Mason Greenwood and Tahith Chong have been given opportunities this season.