Advertisement

Revellers let their hair down across Britain last night as hundreds celebrated Christmas early in a night of festive carnage on the booziest evening of the year.

Rowdy partygoers, many in festive attire, were pictured spilling onto the streets of cities including Cardiff, Newcastle and Leeds as people flocked to pubs and bars on the last Friday before Christmas.

Dubbed 'Black Eye Friday' or 'Mad Friday', the night is typically when workers go out to celebrate the start of their holidays with colleagues, safe in the knowledge that they have the entire weekend in which to recover.

But as the alcohol flowed late in the night, revellers were seen in not-so-festive bust-ups on the streets as police were forced to restrain troublemakers as they drank the night away.

Many donned glamorous attire for the evening's festivities, while others wore very little as they braved heavy rain and chilly temperatures ahead of a weekend washout before Christmas Day.

Three women pose for a photograph in Cardiff, Wales on Friday night as thousands across the country head out for an evening of fun

A woman performs a handstand against a tree a she joins hundreds of others out in Newcastle on the last Friday before Christmas

Two women donned their most festive attire for last night's antics in Cardiff braving the cold and wet weather for an evening of revelry

Three excited revellers take a picture alongside a policeman as they enjoy a night out in Birmingham last night

Police struggled to contain one reveller who became aggressive during a disturbance in Cardiff City Centre last night

Things got a little out of hand for some in Swansea, Wales as a man had to try and keep his female friend upright against a doorway

A fight appears to erupt in Cardiff, Wales as revellers head out on the last Friday before Christmas. Onlookers watch on as the two men tussle on a pavement

Revellers in Newcastle did handstands against a tree, as they joined hundreds of others out in the city on the last Friday before Christmas

A man is tackled to the ground by police as drunken antics got out of hand in Cardiff, Wales last night

Dubbed 'Black Eye Friday' or 'Mad Friday', the night is typically when workers go out to celebrate the start of their holidays with colleagues, safe in the knowledge that they have the entire weekend in which to recover (pictured, revellers in Leeds)

Revellers in Newcastle on the last Friday before Christmas. Dubbed 'Black Eye Friday' or 'Mad Friday', the night is typically when workers go out to celebrate the start of their holidays with colleagues, safe in the knowledge that they have the entire weekend in which to recover

Two men in a not-so-festive bust-up outside a venue in Leeds city centre as the celebrations begin to heat up across Britain

A brawl erupts in Newcastle last night as festivities turn sour in the city centre

Festive revellers hit the streets of Leeds in West Yorkshire as Mad Friday gets underway across the towns and cities of Britain

A man is led away into a police van as police are called in to control the drunken antics of revellers in Cardiff last night

A number of revellers brawl at the entrance to a nightclub in Newcastle last night

Revellers got dressed up for the last night's festivities hitting the town for a night of merriment (pictured, partygoers in Leeds)

Three friends head out for a night of merriment in Leeds on the last Friday before Christmas

Revellers In Manchester took to the streets in the last Friday before Christmas wearing festive jumpers and outfits

Rowdy revellers watch on as two men fight while out celebrating the Christmas period in the Welsh capital on Friday night

Many braved the cold for a night out in Newcastle, as hundreds hit the streets on the last Friday before Christmas

Two women head out for a night of revellery in Leeds last night as thousand hit the streets ahead of the Christmas break

A security guard holds a man to the ground outside a nightclub following a tussle between two men in Cardiff, Wales

A woman sits on the floor and smokes a cigarette in Leeds last night as festivities took a sour turn

Two men square up to each other in Newcastle as festivities turn sour on the last Friday before Christmas

In Cardiff, one partygoer was left in need of medical attention as health chiefs urged people to drink responsibly and not leave paramedics to 'pick up the pieces' of their night out.

While in Leeds, officers were seen carting revellers into the back of police vans after the evening's festivities took a sour turn as brawls broke out on the streets of the city.

In Newcastle, one reveller had to buy some new jeans after he was refused entry to his favourite bar for wearing 'trackies' - forcing him to go out on a quick shopping trip.

He told ChronicleLive: 'I had a pair of trackie bottoms on and they wouldn't let me in so the only option I had was to go find a shop just to buy a pair of jeans,' said Robert, who bought the jeans from Debenhams.

'I got a proper knock back from them and it has cost me £20, which I'm gutted about. But at least I got in.'

Security staff at the bar were reportedly in hysterics when it was revealed he'd rushed out to get a new pair of jeans.

His antics came as police warned revellers to enjoy the festivities and not to end up spending part of the Christmas period in a police cell.

In Sheffield, city centre Sergeant Jon Simpson, urged people to 'be safe and responsible' as they headed out and said that any criminal action could have implications for the rest of their live.

A man is led away by West Midlands Police officers as they attempt to control any disturbances in Birmingham last night

A group of women in matching Mrs Claus dresses took to the streets of Newcastle last night as another took an unfortunate fall

A woman borrows a policeman's hat to pose for a photograph in Birmingham city centre last night

Revellers dressed in red Santa outfits line the streets of Manchester on Friday evening

Despite police having to deal with a few drunken revellers, many appeared to be having a good town as they headed out in cities including Newcastle

Two women put on glamorous attire for a night out in Newcastle, which for many marks the last Friday before Christmas and a time to relax

A man wearing a pink cowboy hat gets a shoulder ride from his friend, as they head out for a night in Newcastle (left). Some even started dancing on the pavement (right in Newcastle), excited at the freedom over the Christmas period

A man lies on the ground during festivities on the last Friday before Christmas. A policeman stands over the fallen person as some men appear to argue among themselves

Three women walk across the road as they enjoy a night out in Cardiff ahead of the Christmas break

Two men attempt to comfort a woman who fell on the ground during last night's festive outings in Blackpool

Two people kiss during last night's festivities in Swansea, Wales on what is for many the last working day before Christmas

Many donned festive outfits for their night out in Birmingham. Thousands across the country hit the streets for a night of drunken antics

Police cart a man away in a police van as the evening's antics got out of hand. Police were out in numbers trying to make sure those who came out enjoyed the night safely

A man lies on the ground as revellers headed out in force in Newcastle last night on what is dubbed Black Eye Friday. It marks the last Friday before Christmas and a time for many to relax and begin the holiday season

Two men square up to each other in Swansea, Wales as thousands head out for a night on the town

A woman talks to police officers in Blackpool, Lancashire last night as festivities get underway ahead of the Christmas break

A security guard throws a punch in Cardiff as festivities turn sour ahead of the Christmas break

It's all a bit much for one reveller, who took a moment to rest on a bike stand in Newcastle last night

A man dressed as the Grinch poses alongside a group of women as they head out for a night of revelry in Cardiff, Wales

Two women walk down the streets of Manchester in glamorous outfits on the Friday before Christmas

One partygoer looked a little worse for wear as he sat down on a bench to get some rest during a night of revellery in Newcastle

Two people take a moment to rest on some steps as the evening's festivities become a little too much

A woman holds her shoes after a night of dancing in Leeds. Thousands took to the streets last night for an evening of revelry

Two men square up to each other in Leeds as he evening's festivities took a turn for the worse

A man wearing a pink cowboy hat jumps on the back of a woman as they head out in Newcastle last night

He said: 'Christmas is a special time of year and understandably people want to celebrate. By all means, enjoy yourselves and have a good time – but be safe and responsible when you go out.

'Look after yourselves and others who are with you. Make sure you've got a plan for getting home and don't put yourself in a position where you make yourself vulnerable and potentially end up a victim of crime.

'You also don't want to commit crime and end up in a police cell over the Christmas period.

'Over the years, I've dealt with individuals who've made the wrong decision and it's stayed with them for the rest of their days.'

Police officers across the country sustained injuries as they attempted to intervene in fights which broke out on 'Black Eye Friday'.

In Middleton, Greater Manchester, an officer was knocked unconscious and his female colleague was dragged to the floor and stamped on as the pair tried to break up a pub fight at around around 2.35am on Saturday morning.

Both officers were rushed to hospital as those involved in the assault fled the scene. They have since been discharged and no arrests have been made, Greater Manchester Police confirmed.

Another Cleveland policeman suffered injuries to the face and eye after he was repeatedly punched while on duty.

Two further police officers were also assaulted on the busiest night of the year when a brawl broke out in a Wetherspoons in Exeter.

Officers were called to the The Imperial pub at 6.10pm to reports of a fight involving 15 people, Devon Live reported. A male and female officer both sustained 'minor injuries' in the brawl and four males were arrested as a result of the fight.

A woman takes a moment to rest on the pavement following a night of revelry in Newcastle

Hundreds hit the streets of Leeds last night for a night of festive antics, on the last Friday before Christmas (left, two partygoers take a break; right, a man gives a woman piggyback)

A man has to be helped up off the ground following a night a drunken antics in Newcastle last night as thousands up and down the country headed out on what for many is their last day of work before Christmas

People posed for photographs as they headed out in Newcastle on the last Friday before Christmas. Thousands across the country head out for work Christmas parties and similar festivities

Police detain a man in a Christmas-themed jumper and Father Christmas hat as celebrations get underway in Cardiff last night

The last Friday before Christmas is dubbed 'Mad Friday' as workers across the country celebrate the start of the holiday season, often with heavy drinking

A woman attempts to ride piggyback in Swansea, Wales last night as festive antics get underway on the last night before Christmas

In Cardiff, one partygoer was left in need of medical attention as health chiefs urged people to drink responsibly and to not leave paramedics to 'pick up the pieces'

A festive partygoer gives a thumbs up as she enjoys a night out in Newcastle on the last Friday before Christmas

A man falls to the ground on the streets of Leeds as Mad Friday, the last Friday before Christmas, gets underway last night

The evening's antics were a little too much for one man in Newcastle, who took a moment to rest on some steps

A group of women dressed as characters of the Nativity play in Swansea, Wales last night

A brawl erupts outside a nightclub in Cardiff, Wales last night as revellers head out to enjoy themselves before Christmas

One woman laughs as she sits on bench in Newcastle following a night of festive antics on Friday

A woman leans against a man during the festivities in Leeds last night, as the evening became a little tiring for some

Three men take to Leeds city centre in extremely festive, colourful suits as they pose for photographs ahead of a night out

Right, a woman gives her friend a piggyback as Mad Friday hits Birmingham's Broad Street, Many end up taking the evening's other name however, Black Eye Friday, as they end up fighting ahead of Christmas. Left, two women pose for a photograph in Cardiff

Revellers out in force in Newcastle last night in celebration of Black Eye Friday, marking the last Friday before Christmas. For one however it was a little too much, and he took a moment to rest on the steps

Three people dressed in festive attire walk through Newcastle last night as Black Eye Friday well and truly gets underway

The last Friday before Christmas is dubbed 'Mad Friday' as workers across the country celebrate the start of the holiday season, often with heavy drinking.

Others call it 'Black Eye Friday' because the excessive boozing can lead to fights and arrests. It marks the beginning of the Christmas period for many, with millions taking to the roads yesterday.

But heavy rainfall meant flooding blocked roads and railways, while part of a historic promenade collapsed.

More downpours and heavy rain are expected across the weekend, as widespread flooding continues to cause travel chaos in the lead up to Christmas.

It is forecast that two weeks' worth of rain will fall in the next 24 hours, causing even more flooding on saturated ground.

There are were 105 flood warnings and 260 flood alerts across the country on Saturday and 20-30 mm of rain is expected to fall before midday on Sunday.

Southern England will see the worst of the wet conditions overnight on Saturday and in Wales there will be very heavy downpours, with 4-5 mm expected to fall within just one hour.

The River Darent in Eynsford, Kent has burst its banks overnight due to the continued heavy rain.

Southern rail said on Saturday that spells of heavy rain or showers may cause flooding on the railway leading to some potential disruption.

Marco Petagna from the Met Office said: 'It is a showery picture in the south and south west with fairly heavy rain moving up over the country.

'There is also a fog warning in place in Northern Ireland [Saturday] until 1pm and rain warnings are in place for the south of the country.'

He added that travel may continue to be disrupted and that those going home for Christmas should allow extra time for journeys and be prepared.

One group of revellers donned Santa outfits as they headed out in Newcastle last night, with one even opting for a festive hat

One eager partygoer encouraged two musicians to play before dancing in the street

A man holds his friend aloft as they head out in Newcastle last night on for what is to many the last day of work ahead of the Christmas break

Another two women opted for fancy dress as they headed out into Leeds last night for an evening of revelry

Two revellers head out for a night of partying as many break up for the Christmas period

In Leeds, two people help a friend home after a long night of partying

Revellers head out in Leeds for a night of partying as many break up for the Christmas break

Some opted for a little food on the way home after a night of revelry as thousands up and down the country headed out ahead of the Christmas break

Two women look for a taxi after a night of fun in Leeds on Friday, on what is considered one of the busiest nights of the year

A man wearing a pink cowboy hat rides on his friend's shoulders during a night out in Newcastle on Friday

A woman hugs a lamp post in Newcastle last night as revellers head out ahead of the Christmas break

A police officer attempts to break up a fight in Leeds last night as the evening's festivities turned sour in some parts of the country

While some were in good spirits and having a jovial time (left, in Cardiff Wales), others got a little more heated on Friday night (right, in Newcastle)

Many adopted festive themed outfits for their night on the town, including these three woman who donned Santa hats

A woman holds on to a lamp post in Leeds as her friend tries to keep her upright during a night of revelry on Friday

Two revellers make their way through Leeds on Friday as festivities got fully underway on an evening often dubbed Black Eye Friday

Many appeared in good spirits as festivities got underway in Leeds on the last Friday before Christmas (pictured)

A man tumbles to the floor as he heads out in Newcastle on the last Friday before Christmas

Revellers took to the streets of Manchester on the last Friday before Christmas wearing jumpers and outfits

A group of women cross the street as they head out in Manchester on the last Friday before Christmas

A trio of festively dressed women head out in Blackpool for a night on the tiles

Hundreds took to the streets of Manchester last night for an evening of revelry

A woman helps herself up after falling to the ground in Blackpool during an evening of clubbing on the last Friday before Christmas

A woman crosses the street as she heads out in Blackpool for an evening of fun

A man dressed as the Grinch attracted a fair amount of attention as he headed out in Cardiff on Mad Friday

But there was some festive cheer from forecasters – the weather is due to turn more settled next week and Christmas Day is set to be largely dry with sunny spells.

Yesterday's rain caused a section of the promenade in Southsea, Hampshire, to collapse. The stretch had already been identified by the council as 'dangerous' and repairs will now take place.

The M23 was shut yesterday in both directions because of flooding near Crawley, West Sussex.

The closure brought gridlock around Gatwick airport, with tailbacks several miles long reported on alternative routes.

The River Rother, meanwhile, burst its banks in another part of the county, blocking roads.

There were also delays due to flooding on the A12 in Essex and the A20 in West Kingsdown, Kent.

Motorists had to be rescued from their cars by firemen after becoming marooned at Leigh, near Tonbridge, and Maidstone, both in Kent. Cars were also seen submerged near Billericay, Essex.

Two men speak to a woman knelt on the ground in Newcastle last night as drunken antics got underway across the country

Two men square up to each other in Newcastle last night as thousands up and down the country headed out for a night on the tiles

A group of revellers in Newcastle last night dressed up in their finest Pokémon attire, including one who donned an entire Pikachu outfit

Some donned colourful outfits, including one dressed as the Grinch, as they hit the streets of Cardiff for a night of revelry

It was a fun night for many as hundreds hit the streets for a night of drinking and dancing (pictured, party-goers in Newcastle)

A group of glamorous partygoers pose for a photograph in central Leeds as they began a night out on Friday evening

One man gives a piggyback to a friend while out partying in Leeds on Friday night

Revellers in Leeds were a mixture of glamorous (right) and festive (left) for the evening, which has also been dubbed 'Black Eye Friday'

Two men mount the back of a painted bull statue in Cardiff, which is painted in blue, orange, yellow, green and pink patches

Police restrain a man in handcuffs in Leeds. The last Friday before Christmas is dubbed 'Mad Friday' as workers across the country celebrate the start of the holiday season

Police and paramedics were out in full force as they restrained partygoers (left in Cardiff) and treated injuries (right in Birmingham)

A reveller collapses to the ground as a police officer attempts to restrain a second partygoer in Leeds as celebrations turn sour

A partygoer poses in the streets of Cardiff in a blue, snowman print suit as he celebrations get underway in Cardiff last night

A group pose for photographs underneath an ornament in Leeds last night

Meanwhile, rail commuters faced delays after tracks were left under water inches deep at Frant Station, Tunbridge Wells, East Sussex, yesterday morning.

A landslip between Guildford and Godalming caused problems on services into Waterloo.

The wettest place between 3pm on Wednesday and 7am yesterday was Libanus, Powys, where 2.5in of rain fell. Bodmin, Cornwall, had 2in over the same period. The average monthly rainfall for the whole of December is 3.4in. Up to 2in of rain fell widely across the South.

A weather warning was issued for the whole of Saturday until noon Sunday, covering southern England from Cornwall to Kent. Up to an inch more rain could fall, risking further flooding. Bonnie Diamond, of the Met Office, said that away from the South, the rest of England and Wales was set to experience a mixture of sunshine and showers.

She added: 'During Sunday, a ridge of high pressure is due to build, meaning more settled conditions, although it could turn colder by day, with the possibility of frosts at night.'

The RAC has warned motorists to expect 'bumper-to-bumper' traffic over the next few days, with 31.2 million journeys set to be taken in the week before Christmas.

Yesterday was set to be one of the busiest days of the festive season for traffic, with 4.7 million trips planned.

A woman tries to correct her friend's dress as they head out in Swansea, Wales last night after millions across the country finished work ahead of the Christmas break

A police officer speaks to a woman stood up against a wall in Blackpool last night as the night came to a close in Blackpool

A woman dressed as an angel walks alongside her friend in Blackpool last night as festivities got underway on Black Eye Friday

Christmas revellers dance in Swansea, Wales last night as festivities got underway across the country

Drunken revellers pictured out enjoying Black Eye Friday in Blackpool, Lancashire last night

A shirtless man dances in St Mary's Street in Cardiff this evening as a young boy performs on a saxophone to his left

A man was seen dressed as a Christmas turkey with a santa hat on his head as he walked the streets on Friday night

Revellers pose for a photograph as they head out to enjoy the festivities in Leeds last night

A man enjoys a takeaway in Newcastle last night following a night out on the town

A police officer speaks to a man in Newcastle who appears to be a little worse for wear

Data from transport specialists INRIX shows the M1 in Bedfordshire and Northamptonshire, the northern and western sections of the clockwise M25, and M6 in the West Midlands are expected to see the worst delays over the next week.

Ben Aldous, of the RAC, said ‘bumper-to-bumper traffic on some motorways and major A-roads’ was ‘near-guaranteed’.

He said: ‘It looks as though millions of drivers are planning to complete their Christmas getaway trips this week.

‘Unfortunately, when you add in the prospect of unsettled weather, with heavy rain and strong winds in some parts, these are likely to be pretty unpleasant drives.’

An estimated five million UK holidaymakers are embarking on an overseas break during the festive period, according to travel trade association Abta.

It reported strong booking numbers for short-haul winter sun destinations such as the Canary Islands, Cape Verde, Morocco, Turkey and Egypt, while the long-haul market has seen high demand for Dubai and Goa.

Geneva is a popular destination for those seeking a more traditional Christmas experience, with favourite locations for spending New Year's Eve abroad including Amsterdam, Dublin and Berlin.