Maria Shriver hit the farmer's market with her sons Patrick and Christopher Schwarzenegger on Sunday afternoon.

The 64 year old Shriver was spotted shopping at the farmer's market in Brentwood, carrying a number of items with her sons.

The author and journalist, who serves as a fill-in host on Today, was seen stocking up before the holidays.

Farmer's market: Maria Shriver hit the farmer's market with her sons Patrick and Christopher Schwarzenegger on Sunday afternoon

Shriver was spotted wearing a blue and white flannel shirt and dark navy blue jeans with light blue shoes.

She had a large grey bag slung over her shoulder plus a large black strap case holding her cell phone

She was also wearing a number of rings and a gold bracelet for her outing with her two sons.

Patrick: Patrick was seen wearing a white t-shirt under a tan fuzzy coat with black trim and a collar for his outing

Patrick was seen wearing a white t-shirt under a tan fuzzy coat with black trim and a collar for his outing.

He was also wearing a grey Los Angeles Dodgers hat and blue jeans, while carrying a beverage and his phone.

He completed his look with a pair of white shoes as he walked with his brother and mother.

Patrick's look: He was also wearing a grey Los Angeles Dodgers hat and blue jeans, while carrying a beverage and his phone

Christopher Schwarzenegger was wearing a navy blue shirt and black pants with grey shoes, with his hair tied back in a pony tail.

He was also seen carrying a large round sign around with him throughout the farmer's market.

Shriver's daughters Katherine, who turned 30 last week, and Christina, 28, was not seen with their mother and brothers.

Marriage: Shriver was married to Arnold Schwarzenegger from 1986 until their split in 2011, when it was revealed that Schwarzenegger had fathered a child with their longtime maid, Mildred Baena

Shriver was first introduced to Arnold Schwarzengger by broadcasting legend Tom Brokaw in 1977.

Shriver was married to Arnold Schwarzenegger from 1986 until their split in 2011, when it was revealed that Schwarzenegger had fathered a child with their longtime maid, Mildred Baena.

The child, Joseph Baena, 22, is following in his father's footsteps as a bodybuilder and aspiring actor as well, following his graduation from Pepperdine University.

Shriver has been filling in as a guest co-host on Today since 2013, most recently appearing on the December 13 episode.