Postal workers are sharing photos of their customers' canines greeting them while they're on the job, and fans can't get enough of the heartwarming pictures.

UPS driver Sean McCarren created the UPS Dogs Facebook page in 2013 as a way to pay tribute to his furry friends that make his work that much more enjoyable. The images have inspired other drivers to post their own pictures, and the page now has more than 1.6 million followers and an accompanying Instagram account.

The posts include the mail carriers' locations as well as some tidbits of information about the dogs. UPS Dogs has also started sharing pictures of other animals met along the way, including deer, sheep, and cats.

Bored Panda has compiled the best photos from the social media pages, proving that even after six years, the dog-lovers still know how to deliver an adorable photo.

Too cute: Postal workers are taking to the UPS Dogs Facebook and Instagram pages to share adorable pictures of their customers' dogs greeting them while they're on the job

Success! UPS driver Sean McCarren (not pictured) created the UPS Dogs Facebook page in 2013, and it now has 1.6 million followers and an accompanying Instagram account

Hard to resist: The posts include the names of the mail carriers and their locations as well as some tidbits of information about the dogs

Now that's a surprise! UPS Dogs has also started sharing pictures of other animals met along the way, including deer and sheep

Permission to come aboard? This cheeky pup make himself right at home in one driver's truck

Warning: This dog's owner made it clear the pooch was not to be given treats

More to love: Eight corgis were looking for some treats and attention when they visited their UPS driver in Keene, New Hampshire

Man's best assistant: The driver from Sugar Land, Texas, who posted this photo said he stopped his truck and before he knew it, he 'had a helper'

Thanksgiving or Halloween? One adorable dog earned himself a scratch behind the ears thanks to its turkey costume

Aww: Many of the UPS workers took the time to strike a pose with the dogs they meet throughout their day

Hot dogs! This postal worker was all smiles while holding two dachshunds

Truly precious: One postal worker in Pendleton, California, joked that this tiny pup named Louice is an 'attack dog'

Strike a pose: One mail carrier had an impromptu photo shoot with one of the stylishly dressed dogs on his route

Model: Facebook users couldn't get enough of this pooch smiling brightly for the camera

Curious: Many of the dogs in the snapshots want to see what's in the drivers' trucks

Saying hello! This tiny pup from Newberg, Oregon, is named Cupcake, and she's not shy

Say cheese! One UPS driver captured a one-of-a-kind photo of this excited dog while working

Cutest carrier: One cat ended up getting its own UPS uniform and package

Friends along the way: On UPS worker met a dog, a pig, and two horses during one animal-filled delivery

Can't resist petting: It's clear that many UPS drivers love seeing dogs on their routes

Always be prepared! This UPS driver had a stack of treats ready to hand out when needed

Double trouble: One popular photo shows a dog and a baby deer looking for a treat in Olympia, Washington

Precious: A furry black dog stuck its tongue out while posing with a local UPS worker

Here's a toy! Most of the dogs are looking for a treat when they approach the UPS carriers, but this adorable dog wanted to play

Kisses! This dog couldn't resist giving its favorite UPS driver a smooch

Hello! A lot of the photos posed on the UPS Dog pages show the pups standing with their front paws on the steps of the trucks

Look what I did: This dog proudly brought out a sneaker it had been chewing on

Taking over: A feisty squirrel marked its territory while escaping the snow

What a crowd: Another driver had to deal with four dogs waiting outside the door

Need some rest? This thoughtful pooch brought a pillow to one lucky UPS carrier

So tiny! One postal worker made fast friends with a puppy he met while on the job

What a greeting: This UPS worker was photographed petting two dogs who met him at the door during one of his deliveries