Jen Harley proves she is done playing games when it comes to protecting herself - and her daughter - from baby daddy, Ronnie Ortiz-Magro.

Harley brought her best weapon, acclaimed civil rights attorney Lisa Bloom, to court with her Friday for a hearing regarding the on-going domestic violence case against her ex-beau.

Bloom took the reigns for the 31-year-old mother this morning in order to prove Harley as a 'fit parent.'

No more games: Jen Harley(right) equipped herself with civil rights attorney Lisa Bloom in court Friday morning in LA for on-going domestic violence case against ex-beau Ronnie Ortiz-Magro (left)

Big guns: Outside the Los Angeles courthouse this morning, Lisa Bloom confirmed that she will be defending Harley in her case against Ronnie Ortiz-Mastro, exclusively to TMZ. Bloom is seen in April above

Outside the Los Angeles courthouse this morning, Lisa Bloom confirmed that she will be defending Harley in her case against Ronnie Ortiz-Magro to TMZ.

Bloom stated that she was 'very proud' to be Harley's representation and believes this case is a 'very important matter.'

The reporters prodded Lisa how Harley and Ortiz-Magro would go about spending the holiday season amidst the legal drama.

Lisa stated: 'There is a restraining order in place, so [Ortiz-Magro] does not have the opportunity to see his daughter right now.'

October incident: The muscle-bound reality star appeared stone-faced as he was being loaded into the back of an ambulance after having a stun gun deployed against him

Scared for her life: Harley was spotted walking outside the couple's rental after her boyfriend's dramatic arrest

Ariana is with Jen 'full time', but according to a recent tirade by Ortiz-Magro on Instagram, the Jersey Shore star believes Harley isn't fit to have full custody of their daughter.

Bloom shook her head dismissively and denied the claims, labeling them as 'false' and 'offensive.'

She went even further by revealing that Ortiz-Magro removed the Instagram tirade so quickly, due to the restraining order against him forbidding any and all forms of harassment towards Harley.

'Jen is a wonderful mother' and that she 'loves' baby Ariana.

Bloom concluded her courthouse interview with TMZ with one final, but powerful, statement, saying: '[Ortiz] has no right to harass [Harley] or go after her and if he does then we will go after him with the full force of the law.'

Defending honor: 'Jen is a wonderful mother' and she 'loves' baby Ariana claimed Bloom

The famed attorney and daughter to Gloria Allred has had a plethora of clientele over the years, both famous - and not.

The 58-year-old had been considered a major legal player in the battle against sexual misconduct towards women.

Bloom made headlines when news surfaced that she stood to represent the female victims in the cases against, both, actor Bill Cosby and Fox News anchor Bill O'Reilly, according to Business Insider.

But the attorney's credibility was put into question in 2017, when it was uncovered that Bloom was working for the alleged sexual assaulter, Harvey Weinstein.

On December 12th, Ortiz-Mastro took to Instagram Stories with a series of messages about his problems with Harley.

He had pleaded not guilty to all related charges stemming from the case in court last month, as Harley received full custody of Ariana, while Ortiz-Magro is legally barred from getting closer than 100 yards from them per an emergency protective order issued in the case.

Parenting in question: Ariana is with Jen 'full time', but according to a recent tirade by Ortiz-Magro on Instagram , the Jersey Shore star believes Harley isn't fit to have full custody of their daughter

In a statement exclusive to TMZ, Ronnie's lawyer, Scott Lemon stated the following regarding Harley and Bloom allegations against his client:

'Our investigation has initially shown that there are clear errors and mistakes in the charging documents. Some of these errors have been discussed with the Deputy City Attorney, and after further investigation, we expect significant amendments to the charges.

'The only thing that is apparent at this time is that Ronnie is a great father and he anxiously awaits being able to spend time with his daughter. We are hoping that the reunion occurs soon'

Weinstein: The attorney's credibility was put into question in 2017, when it was uncovered that Bloom was working for the alleged sexual assaulter, Harvey Weinstein

Insta-trouble: On December 12th, Ortiz-Mastro took to Instagram Stories with a series of messages about his problems with Harley

In October, Ronnie Ortiz-Magro was arrested in Los Angeles during a now infamous drug-fueled altercation with his on-again, off-again girlfriend Harley.

The 33-year-old was then taken into police custody after reportedly 'striking' Harley at an AirBnB rental at around 2.30am, according to TMZ.

By 11.30am local time, Ortiz-Magro had been released from jail after posting $100,000 bail.

Video shot by TMZ showed the reality TV star emerging from a Los Angeles detention center and being whisked away in a black Mercedes.

The Jersey Shore alum had allegedly 'slapped and punched Jen' before chasing her around the home with a knife while carrying their baby daughter, Ariana Sky.

The incident: The Jersey Shore alum had allegedly 'slapped and punched Jen' before chasing her around the home with a knife while carrying their baby daughter, Ariana Sky

TMZ reported back in October that police 'broke down the door' to the rental because they were worried the 18-month-old little girl was in danger.

Ronnie had reportedly refused to 'go peacefully' and officers were forced to use a taser on the muscle-bound reality star.

TMZ then obtained video from Fox 11 showing officers placing the topless Ortiz-Magro on a gurney in a seated position and restraining his hands.

In the footage, the heavily tattooed 33-year-old appears stone-faced and stares straight ahead without blinking while being loaded by paramedics into the back of an awaiting ambulance.

The video also showed Harley, dressed in a black T-shirt with a sports drink in hand, standing outside her residence. As soon as she spotted cameras trained on her, she used her long ombre locks to obscure her face and quickly walked away.

No peace: Ronnie had reportedly refused to 'go peacefully' and officers were forced to use a taser on the muscle-bound reality star

Harley initially placed 911 calls 'in distress' after running around the home screaming for help when Ronnie began chasing her with a knife.

According to the 911 tape obtained by TMZ, Harley pressed a panic button inside the AirBnB in the the 7200 block of Woodrow Wilson Drive during the clash with Ortiz-Magro.

She also relayed to authorities that Ronnie 'went off the rails after doing coke.'



He eventually dropped the knife and locked himself in the house with his daughter.

Paramedics on scene 'checked out Jen and the baby' and neither suffered any major injuries, although the 31-year-old woman did reportedly have visible marks on her face.

Ronnie was taken to a nearby hospital to be evaluated and was later booked into jail for kidnapping.