His wife Beth died this summer at a two-year battle with throat cancer.

Duane 'Dog the Bounty Hunter' Chapman revealed his plans for the holiday season and how he's coping with being alone in an interview published Thursday with ET.

The 66-year-old reality star said he's trying to keep alive the traditions he and his wife observed for years, even though his family will be scattered to the wind this Christmas.

Moving forward: Duane 'Dog the Bounty Hunter' Chapman revealed he'll keep his late wife Beth's Christmas traditions alive this year, even though much of his family won't be around, according to an interview with ET; pictured in 2015

'Beth was old style, old-fashioned. So, you know, that means the tree and the presents. All the stockings hung up... so I'm trying to keep that exact tradition,' he explained.

'I've got it all decorated. All the stockings are hung. We always left — when the kids were young — cookies for Santa, and I think I'll do that this year also.'

Now that his children are grown open, many of them will be at opposite ends of the country.

'For the holidays, probably half of us, including me, will be in Colorado, and then the other half is in Hawaii, and of course Leland is in Alabama,' he said, referring to his son Leland Chapman, who co-starred on Dog The Bounty Hunter. 'So this year, everybody's all spread out.'

Tradition: 'Beth was old style, old-fashioned. So, you know, that means the tree and the presents... I'm trying to keep that exact tradition,' he explained; shown in 2013 with Beth Chapman

Spread out: 'For the holidays, probably half of us, including me, will be in Colorado, and then the other half is in Hawaii, and of course Leland is in Alabama,' he said. 'So this year, everybody's all spread out'; shown in 2015

The former bail bondsman revealed that his family's holiday traditions constantly remind him of his late wife.

'Every little ball that's on the tree, every ornament, you know, there's 20 years plus of ornaments on that tree, so as I hung [them], I remembered where and when we bought each one,' he said.

His wife's influence even had an impact on the family's music playlist.

'Beth knew every single [Christmas song], and she made us all listen to Christmas songs like two weeks before Christmas. As we decorated the tree, she'd put on Christmas songs. Every night before we went to bed she'd put them on,' he remembered.

'So I think the girls are taking it the hardest without being able to sing with mom.'

Missing her: 'Beth knew every single [Christmas song], and she made us all listen to Christmas songs like two weeks before Christmas. As we decorated the tree, she'd put on Christmas songs. Every night before we went to bed she'd put them on,' he remembered

No hope: Duane revealed that he didn't care if he 'lived or died' after Beth was gone; shown in 2006

Duane was unguarded about the pain of losing his wife, which topped the most difficult moments of his life.

'It's the worst thing you could ever go through,' he explained. 'I've been to prison, I've been let out of prison. I've captured some of the worst sons of b****es in the world, and nothing is worse than this.'

Despite the way it upended his world, the Dog And Beth: On The Hunt star says that time seems to have barely passed since that dark day in June.

'It seems like yesterday. Six whole months already. And pretty soon it will be a year. It's really hard when you start thinking about how long it's been,' he said. 'I think that's the worst of all, because I can't believe it's been six months.'

Sticking around: The reality star is doing better now. He has 'almost quit smoking' and he's exercising more than ever; pictured in 2006

Time may have flown, but his wife's death left Dog in a place of crisis.

'The first few months I didn't care whether I lived or died,' he revealed. 'As a matter of fact I kept getting upset every time I woke up in the morning.'

But the bounty hunter has found renewed purpose recently, and he's looking to be around for a long time.

'I'm doing much better with my health. I've almost quit smoking. That patch is a miracle. It's just amazing and I'm taking blood thinners for the blood clot in my lung and exercising. I always have worked out every day and I'm double that now,' Duane explained. 'So yeah, I need to live to get through my mission in life.'

Now he's looking forward to the second season of his WGN series Dog's Most Wanted, which finds him searching for only the most select fugitives.

The shows first season concluded in October with a finale focused on Beth's death and her well-attended memorial service.

New projects: Duane is preparing Dog's Most Wanted season two, and he'll make his acting debut in Hunting God, a Christian thriller in which he'll play himself; pictured in August

He'll also be trying something new with his first ever acting role. He'll play a fictionalized version of himself in the Christian thriller Hunting God.

'I had fun doing it and my imagination is a little better. You have to imagine that you're in that zone, you know? So I really, really enjoyed it. [But] I really had a great time.'

His new projects seem certain to brighten up the next year.

'What a terrible year I had,' he said. 'Ended this year with Beth being gone, so I know that 2020 has got to be better cause nothing can be that bad.'