He had a very unusual present for his wife Hailey Bieber this Christmas season.

On Friday, Justin Bieber shared a photo of himself showing off his muscled back and bottom as he eased his jeans down to reveal his Calvin Klein undies while standing between Hailey's legs.

He captioned the sexy black and white snap: 'My gift this year @haileybieber #mycalvins'

That's some present: Justin Bieber shared this sexy Instagram snap on Friday captioned, 'My gift this year @haileybieber #mycalvins'

Hailey, 23, peered over her beloved's shoulder with her blonde tresses smoothed back into a high pony tail.

Amazingly, given that his chest and arms are covered in tattoos, the 25-year-old's back is relatively ink free.

Aside from his wife, who is a model, the photo was probably also enjoyed by his 122 million followers and Hailey's 23.8 million followers.

Hailey is Stephen Baldwin's daughter and Alec Baldwin's niece.

Sharing a selfie: Hailey posted this Instagram saying, 'Almost done with work for 2019'

Sexy style: The 23-year-old showed off her newly trimmed and dried tresses as she left the Nine Zero One Salon in West Hollywood on Thursday

The in-demand model and occasional actress was last seen in the 10,000 hours video for the release of the same name by Dan + Shay & Justin Bieber which dropped in October.

She has also graced the covers of Vogue in various parts of the world.

And Hailey has walked for Top Shop, Sonia Rykiel, Tommy Hilfiger. Ralph Lauren and Moschino among many other. The celebrity is also the new face of Levi jeans.

Snowy ensemble: Justin went for winter white when he and Hailey were spotted leaving a church service on Wednesday night in Los Angeles

Meanwhile, Justin is getting ready to drop his long awaited new album.

Earlier this month, an insider told E! News 'the album is pretty much done and it will be out soon.

'They are putting on the finishing touches and aiming for early 2020,' the source said.

'Justin is very excited to share new music and to get out on the road again. It's been a long time coming and he's feeling very ready.