First daughter and top White House adviser Ivanka Trump shrugged off an assertion that Rudy Giuliani has made life more difficult for President Trump.

'It is what it is,' she told CBS News' Margaret Brennan in a sit-down for 'Face the Nation.' 'We're here.'

Brennan had asked Ivanka Trump if she thought her father was getting good counsel from Giuliani, who has continued to create headlines by going to Ukraine in an effort to prove the president was right to ask Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to investigate the Bidens.

First daughter and top White House adviser Ivanka Trump said 'it is what it is' when asked if Rudy Giuliani had been serving her father well as his personal attorney

'Face the Nation' anchor Margaret Brennan (left) sat down with Ivanka Trump (right) and asked her about Rudy Giuliani's continued Ukrainian investigations

Rudy Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, was a central character in the Ukrainian scandal that led to President Trump's impeachment on Wednesday

'I know Rudy Giuliani in a very different context, as one of the greatest mayors in the history of this country and - and a real hero in New York,' Ivanka Trump began. 'So that is - that is the experience I've had with Rudy for a very long period of time.'

Ivanka Trump was born and raised in New York, only leaving to move to Washington, D.C., to work in her father's administration.

'He's smart and thoughtful and - and a real warrior and was a great - a great mayor,' the first daughter went on.

Brennan explained she had asked about Giuliani because he's continued to pursue Ukraine-related investigations.

President Trump was impeached in the House of Representatives Wednesday for abuse of power and obstruction of Congress.

The charges were related to a pressure campaign the president mounted to get Zelensky to announce investigations into the Bidens and the origins of the 2016 Russia Probe - while $400 million in military aid to Ukraine was being withheld.

Giuliani was a central character in the Ukraine scheme and continued to pursue the investigations in the days leading up to Trump's impeachment.

Brennan pointed out that those actions have 'created a lot of news and new storylines that the White House has had to respond to that have only complicated, in many ways, moving on.'

'That's your assessment,' Ivanka Trump told the 'Face the Nation' anchor. 'So I don't know that I want to validate that.'

The White House adviser the pointed out that 'more than 50 percent of America' didn't think the president should have been impeached.

'And we have agreement of every single Republican member of Congress and a handful of Democrats as well,' she said. 'So the facts are there for the American pepole to assess and determine themselves.'