A new patent filed with the FCC suggests that Samsung may have some major improvements to its next round of Galaxy branded ear buds.

According to the patent, Samsung appears to be working on the next iteration of its Galaxy Buds, and if pictures included in the patent are to be believed, they could have three times the battery life of previous versions.

As noted by The Verge, a patent filing shows that each of the wireless earbuds may have a battery capacity of 300mA - a unit of measurement used in rechargeable batteries.

The Galaxy Buds tout smart dual microphones that can adjust to the noise levels of your surroundings and provide hands-free control using Samsung’s virtual assistant, Bixby

That would be double the individual capacity of Samsung's current iteration of Galaxy Buds according to The Verge.

A case that doubles as a charger for the buds is shown having 600mA which would be a slight increase of the current one, patents show.

It's possible the company could unveil them alongside its anticipated new Galaxy S11 in February.

An original version of the earbuds was released in February alongside a new Samsung smart watch.

The wireless earbuds tout smart dual microphones that can adjust to the noise levels of your surroundings and provide hands-free control using Samsung’s virtual assistant, Bixby

The adaptive dual microphones in the Galaxy Buds also keep the earbuds tuned to your voice during calls.

As noted by The Verge, Galaxy Buds already have fairly sturdy battery life compared to other options on the market with users getting between six and seven hours of life with one charge.

Even with improved battery life, new Galaxy Buds would have stark competition in Apple's newest Air Pods Pro which have exceeded sales expectations.

According to a recent report by CNBC, the company's newest wireless earbuds, the AirPod Pro, which were released this past October, have sold out from nearly every major online retailer, including Best Buy, Walmart, Target, Amazon.

Apple previously managed to sell out of the buds in November, just a month after their release and says it won't have them re-stocked until after December.