Zendaya got some shopping done with her brother Austin in Los Angeles on Sunday afternoon.

The 23 year old actress was spotted outside Club Monaco in Los Angeles on Sunday, as she waiting for her vehicle at the valet stand with her brother Austin.

The outing comes weeks after she was spotted in Australia with her Euphoria co-star Jacob Elordi, sparking romance rumors.

Zendaya and brother: Zendaya got some shopping done with her brother Austin in Los Angeles on Sunday afternoon

Zendaya was wearing a black shirt with dark grey pants and black boots, with a long grey robe that fell to her calves.

The actress had her hair pulled back as she stood on the curb near the valet stand with her brother.

Austin was wearing a multi-colored sweater with glasses, black pants, black shoes while holding a black bag.

Zendaya's look: Zendaya was wearing a black shirt with dark grey pants and black boots, with a long grey robe that fell to her calves

Zendaya's shopping outing comes just weeks after she was spotted in Australia on an extended holiday in Australia with her Euphoria co-star Jacob Elordi.

The actress was named the GQ Australia's Woman of the Year during a ceremony in Sydney last month, but she was spotted in the beach town of Noosa in Queensland earlier in December.

Zendaya and Elordi have been rumored to be dating for several months, though she told GQ that they were only 'close friends.'

Aussie: Zendaya's shopping outing comes just weeks after she was spotted in Australia on an extended holiday in Australia with her Euphoria co-star Jacob Elordi

The actress returned as MJ in Marvel and Sony's Spider-Man: Far From Home, and she also played Rue in HBO's Euphoria, while also appearing in three episodes of The OA.

Next year she'll star in one of 2020's most highly-anticipated movies, an adaptation of Frank Herbert's Dune, arriving December 18, 2020.

She will also return as Rue in Season 2 of Euphoria, though it has not been confirmed when the season will debut yet.

Zendaya and Lupita: The actress returned as MJ in Marvel and Sony's Spider-Man: Far From Home, and she also played Rue in HBO's Euphoria, while also appearing in three episodes of The OA

Zendaya is also attached to star in The Finest Kind, alongside Jake Gyllenhaal and Ansel Elgort.

She also became a spokeswoman for Lancome earlier this year, and filmed the short Lancome: Idole.

She is also attached to star in and produce A White Lie, a light-skinned black woman who passed as white in the 1890s so she could attend Vassar College.