Alec Baldwin's daughter Ireland is a reliable source of come-hither content for her followers, and her Thursday Instagram post did not disappoint.

The 24-year-old model offered a side view of her toned body in a full-length profile photo, wearing only a grey set of matching lingerie.

But the stunner was coy about the contents, instead calling attention to the situation on top of her head by captioning the snap, 'baby needs her roots done!'

Stunner: Ireland Baldwin offered a side view of her toned body in a full-length profile photo on Thursday, wearing only a grey set of matching lingerie

The natural brunette usually colors her mane various shades of blonde, but it looks like she's giving her tresses a break as her roots are grown out several inches past her scalp.

Also on display was the panorama of tattoos she has down her left arm.

Among the collection is a Hello Kitty emblem, a mandala, which is a spiritual representation of the universe in Indian religions, and the cover art for David Bowie's album Aladdin Sane on her shoulder.

Leggy blonde: In November, the 6'2 model posted a full-body photo in front of her mirror showing off her long limbs and torso, along with a brand new pair of black thigh highs

New York, I love you: In July, Ireland shared her full derriere with the world by posing on top of a New York high rise in a nude-color G-string thong

Her face was clean and makeup-free, showing an uncanny resemblance to her movie star mom Kim Basinger.

The 6'2 model is no stranger to baring it all for the 'gram.

In November, she posted a full-body photo in front of her mirror showing off her long limbs and torso, along with a brand new pair of black thigh highs.

Soak up the sun: The young star is no stranger to baring it all for the 'gram as she rocks a tiny red bikini

'You ever get the perfect pair of thigh highs and you wanna just... yeah, me 2,' she captioned the flirty post.

In July, Ireland shared her full derriere with the world by posing on top of a New York high rise in a nude-color G-string thong.

Back in September, the young star was given the chance to work through her notoriously complicated childhood with her dad by appearing as a guest on Comedy Central's Roast of Alec Baldwin.

First as tragedy, then as farce: Ireland joked about her complicated childhood with dad Alec Baldwin at Comedy Central's Roast of Alec Baldwin in September

Ireland's relationship with her father has been the subject of tabloid fodder for nearly two decades.

'A lot of people only know my dad as an angry guy, but he’s more than some lunatic who loses his temper,'

'He also loses Emmys and Oscars and custody of his first-born child, am I right?'

Racy in lace and pleather: The starlet also posted to her Instagram Stories on Friday night from the My Chemical Romance show in Los Angeles, alongside a male pal



