The number of ‘special advisers’ employed by ministers has soared to record levels.

An official report reveals that in November there were 108 of them, up from 99 the year before.

The advisors - known as ‘spads’ - cost the taxpayer £7.1million in 2018/19, up 8 per cent on the total just a year before.

The highest earner is Downing Street communications director Lee Cain, who earns between £140,000 and £145,0000 - almost as much as Boris Johnson himself.

No 10 staff watching the PM's speech: 1. Lucia Hodgson 2. Rob Oxley 3. Edward Lister 4. Dominic Cummings 5. Lee Cain

He is on the same salary as Sir Ed Lister, Number 10 chief of staff, and Munira Mirza, director of the PM’s policy unit.

Dominic Cummings is Boris Johnson's aide and is paid almost £100,000 a year

Mr Johnson’s aide Dominic Cummings is paid almost £100,000 a year.

In total, Mr Johnson has 44 special advisers - 35 of whom are paid more than £75,000.

The highest paid special adviser outside Number 10 is Mats Persson, who works for Chancellor Sajid Javid and earns up to £125,000.

It comes as Boris Johnson's blockbuster election victory was not the work of one man, there was a whole team of advisers and specialists behind the Prime Minister's historic win.

The Tories put into place a tight-knit team featuring a mixture of old-school campaigners and younger upstarts skilled in the dark arts of social media.

The result was the electoral equivalent of a bludgeon that repeatedly spat out its core message: a vote for us is a vote to get Brexit done and get on with your lives.

In the speech on the steps of No10, Boris Johnson said he was determined to 'repay the trust' of the wave of former Labour supporters who handed him a huge new mandate

Isaac Levido was director of politics and campaigning in Conservative Campaign Headquarters

And many of them were on hand to watch Mr Johnson address the nation outside Number 10 following his election victory.

Dominic Cummings is Boris Johnson's shadowy Svengali and the mastermind of the Vote Leave campaign.

A ruthless operator unafraid to take on his opponents he has lashed out at both Remainers and Brexiteers in the past when they have threatened to derail Brexit.

Isaac Levido was director of politics and campaigning in Conservative Campaign Headquarters – and the undisputed chief of the Tory campaign.

After the results of the exit poll were revealed, staff at the party’s Westminster HQ chanted ‘Oh, Isaac Levido’ – mocking the tribute to Jeremy Corbyn which used to be sung by Labour supporters.

Eddie Lister (pictured left) is the oldest member of Boris Johnson's team. The highest paid special adviser outside Number 10 is Mats Persson (right), who works for Chancellor Sajid Javid and earns up to £125,000

Lee Cain has worked with Mr Johnson for years

At 69, Ed Lister is the oldest member of Team Boris, and will operate as chief of staff but without the title.

His reputation as 'Steady Eddie' is being tested to the limit in Government.

He is seen as the calming foil to the more excitable and blunt force instrument that is Dominic Cummings.

For 19 years he was leader of flagship Tory Wandsworth Council, consistently delivering the lowest council tax in the country.

Lee Cain is a former Fleet Street journalist who again has a long record of association with Mr Johnson.

The 37-year-old worked as an adviser to several cabinet ministers before working with the Tory leadership favourite and Michael Gove as head of broadcast for the Vote Leave campaign during the EU referendum in 2016.

In 2016 he was also hired by Andrea Leadsom as a special adviser.