Advertisement

Hunter Biden has been found hiding out in Los Angeles, exclusive DailyMail.com photos show, amid his new wife's pregnancy, fighting his Arkansas baby mama's paternity case and facing calls from President Donald Trump to testify in his impeachment trial.

The scandal-ridden 49-year-old was alone as he ducked out of his home on Friday afternoon, wearing a hip blue suede jacket, skinny jeans and boots, along with his wedding ring.

The sighting comes a week after DailyMail.com revealed that his new South African wife Melissa Cohen, 32, is pregnant and in her second trimester.

As Hunter lays low on the West Coast, Trump demanded that he be called as a witness in his impeachment trial as Hunter is at the center of the trial based on his role with Ukrainian oil company Burisma.

And apparently, his father Joe Biden has had enough of the focus on his son, lashing out during Thursday's presidential candidate debate, claiming Republicans were 'attacking' Hunter.

Hunter Biden has been found hiding out in Los Angeles, exclusive DailyMail.com photos show, amid his new wife's pregnancy, fighting his Arkansas baby mama's paternity case and facing calls from President Donald Trump to have him testify at his impeachment trial

The scandal-ridden 49-year-old was alone as he ducked out of his home on Friday afternoon, wearing a hip blue suede jacket, skinny jeans and boots, along with his wedding ring. It marks the first time he's been seen in public in months

Earlier this week, Trump demanded that Hunter be called as a witness in his impeachment trial as Hunter is at the center of the trial based on his role with Ukrainian oil company Burisma

Joe complained about Republicans targeting not only him and his son, but his entire family, saying: 'The way they’ve attacked me, my son and my family, I have no love.'

He added: 'But we must get things done and if we can’t convince them we have to go out and beat them.'

Last week, DailyMail.com published photos of Hunter's wife Melissa running errands around Los Angeles, with her blossoming baby bump on full display.

A close friend of Melissa's told DailyMailTV that while the couple is 'thrilled' at having a baby, there's also a lot of anxiety around the pregnancy.

They said: 'Friends are deeply concerned, anyone who knows Melissa knows that she's one of the sweetest people you can meet.

'She's in love with Hunter and of course they're thrilled, but the pain and stress they're going through every day is cause for real concern.

'There is constant hatred directed towards them from Trump supporters and the President himself.

'People are attacking her, she's not running for office, her husband's dad is, all she wants to do is keep her unborn child safe.'

Trump has ramped up the pressure on Joe Biden's son in recent months.

In October he tweeted: 'Where's Hunter?' and in another tweet he wrote: 'He has totally disappeared!'

Baby drama: The sighting comes a week after DailyMail.com revealed that his new South African wife Melissa Cohen, 32, (left) is pregnant and in her second trimester. Hunter is also embroiled in a bitter paternity case with his Arkansas baby mama Lunden Roberts (right)

During Thursday's presidential candidate debate, former Vice President Joe Biden lashed out at Republicans for 'attacking' Hunter. He said: 'The way they’ve attacked me, my son and my family, I have no love'

The President started using the 'Where's Hunter?' slogan at political rallies and his 2020 campaign website is even selling $25 T-shirts that read 'Where's Hunter?'.

Trump's stance has provoked a tidal wave of online abuse and hate against Biden and his wife.

The source added: 'And Melissa is also not making a noise about being a new mom because she is respectful of the other woman's child and her mother.

'Luckily she's a very strong woman and she will get through this with Hunter because they have a love which is strong.'

While Biden and Melissa are currently living in LA, they are considering relocating to keep their family safe, the friend explained.

The sighting comes a day after an Arkansas judge unsealed a filing in Hunter's paternity case with Lunden Roberts, 28, which revealed Hunter complained she was trying to 'embarrass' him by demanding details of his financials.

A close friend of Melissa's told DailyMailTV that while the couple is 'thrilled' at having a baby, there's also a lot of anxiety around the pregnancy. They said: 'There is constant hatred directed towards them from Trump supporters and the President himself'

The President started using the 'Where's Hunter?' slogan at political rallies and his 2020 campaign website is even selling $25 t-shirts reading 'Where's Hunter?'

The President's stance has provoked a tidal wave of online abuse and hate against Biden and his wife

Biden's legal team had tried to use Biden's famous dad Joe to get the deposition sealed, arguing information that came from his deposition scheduled for December 23 could 'unreasonably annoy, embarrass or oppress' Hunter - and his family.

His lawyers went a step further and asked the judge to quash the deposition entirely, saying by handing over an affidavit of his financial means should provide Roberts with 'all relevant information for any argument of temporary child support.'

On Wednesday, Roberts accused Biden of refusing to hand over his financial records and demanded that he turn over all documents pertaining to his accounts from the past five years.

She filed papers asking the court to compel him to turn over the records.

The two met while Roberts worked as a stripper at Mpire in Washington D.C. She gave birth to their child last August.

She wants Biden's financial records to establish how much he should pay in child support, as well as proving he can afford to foot her $11k legal bill.

The businessman - who has been at the center of a political firestorm over his links to a Ukrainian energy company - married Melissa 10 days after they met in an impromptu wedding on May 16 this year

South African beauty Melissa was make-up free and appeared relaxed, dressed in sweat pants, sneakers and a comfortable sweater last Thursday

While Biden and Melissa are currently living in LA, they are considering relocating to keep their family safe, the friend explained

Roberts' (circled) lawyers said in legal papers that Biden has objected to answering any of their discovery questions, which included confirming the state in which he lives, his phone number and if he worked for Ukrainian oil company Burisma

Roberts' lawyers said in legal papers that Biden has objected to answering any of their discovery questions, which included confirming the state in which he lives, his phone number and if he worked for Ukrainian oil company Burisma.

Her lawyers said: 'It should, by now, be abundantly clear to the Court that the defendant is not going to answer or provide any of his discoverable financial information unless the Court forces him to do so.

'The defendant has provided no support for this child for over a year.

'The Court should not let the defendant continue to avoid his natural and legal duty to support his child by failing to provide basic information about his income, finances and lifestyle.

'This Court should compel the defendant to answer the interrogatories and requests for production documents in time for the January 7, 2020 hearing in this case.'