Advertisement

She's had a busy year starring in the West End musical of 9 to 5 alongside Louise Redknapp before taking it across the UK on a show tour.

And Amber Davies took some well-deserved downtime over the festive period as she was spotted during an idyllic beach day on her recent getaway to Adelaide, Australia, earlier this month.

The Love Island babe, 23, who is now back in her hometown of North Wales ahead of Christmas, looked sensational as she showcased her toned figure and ample assets in a plunging blue bikini with silver detailing on it.

Beach babe: Amber Davies took some well-deserved downtime over the festive period as she was spotted during an idyllic beach day on her recent getaway to Adelaide, Australia, earlier this month

Amber styled her long straight blonde locks into a sophisticated low ponytail with a black and white patterned scrunchie.

The actress and singer looked every inch the beach babe as she added a slick of natural make-up to enhance her pretty features.

Adding some glamorous touches to her swimwear ensemble, Amber accessorised her look with a gold bee pendant necklace and pearl hooped earrings.

Toned: The Love Island babe, 23, who is now back in her hometown of North Wales ahead of Christmas, looked sensational as she showcased her toned figure and ample assets in a plunging blue bikini with silver detailing on it

Christmas in the sun: Amber styled her long straight blonde locks into a sophisticated low ponytail with a black and white patterned scrunchie

Work it: The reality star knew how to work her best angles as she put her best foot forward and posed up a storm in the plunging blue bikini

The reality star knew how to work her best angles as she put her best foot forward and posed up a storm in the plunging blue bikini.

Later in the day, Amber decided to cover up in a pair of ripped denim hotpants and a fitted white shirt, which she teamed with a stylish black Christian Dior crossover bag.

Amber jetted to Australia earlier this month to appear on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!'s spin-off show Extra Camp with Emily Atack, Joel Dommett and Adam Thomas, which is filmed in Springbrook National Park in New South Wales.

Keeping up-to-date: The blonde beauty later checked her phone as she kept up-to-date on social media and with her pals

Busy bee: Amber jetted to Australia earlier this month to appear on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!'s spin-off show Extra Camp with Emily Atack, Joel Dommett and Adam Thomas, which is filmed in Springbrook National Park in New South Wales

Jet-setter: Yet the Love Island babe decided to make the most of her trip Down Under as she also headed to Adelaide and documented her sun-drenched journey to Instagram, calling it the 'best holiday ever'

Outfit change: Later in the day, Amber decided to cover up in a fitted white shirt which displayed her svelte figure during her beach day

Making the most of it: The beauty made sure she soaked up the Australian sunshine as she sunbathed on the golden sand during her beach day

Yet the Love Island babe decided to make the most of her trip Down Under as she also headed to Adelaide and documented her sun-drenched journey to Instagram, calling it the 'best holiday ever'.

However Amber will be spending Christmas with her family in her hometown of North Wales as she shared a sweet photo to her social media on Sunday with her pet pooch.

She captioned it: 'Back with the most popular Davies sister. All hail queen Belle,' followed by the tongue out and money emoji.

Selfie! Amber couldn't resist taking a selfie as she made the most of her Australian holiday, she later shared the photo to Instagram and captioned it: 'That time when I wasn’t Jet lagged :('

Christmas plans: Amber will be spending Christmas with her family in her hometown of North Wales as she shared a sweet photo to her social media on Sunday with her pet pooch

Busy year: She's had a busy year starring in the West End musical of 9 to 5 alongside Louise Redknapp before taking it across the UK on a show tour

Details: She teamed the fitted white shirt with a pair of ripped denim hotpants and a stylish black Christian Dior crossover bag

Amber has spent the last year starring in the West End musical of 9 to 5 and has recently taken it on a tour across the UK, she stars as Judy Bernly in the comedy musical brought by Dolly Parton based on the hit 1980 film.

Although earlier this year, the reality star was hit with a public scandal after Geordie Shore star Chloe Ferry accused her on-off boyfriend Sam Gowland of cheating on her with Amber, something both parties vehemently denied.

The brunette Welsh beauty shot to fame when she won the 2017 series of Love Island alongside now ex-boyfriend Kem Cetinay.

Sweet: Amber will be spending Christmas with her family and pet pooch in her hometown in North Wales, she shared this sweet photo on Sunday