Alisson Becker was 14 when his team, Internacional, won the Club World Cup. A starting XI solely of Brazilians — one substitute was from Colombia — defeated the Barcelona of Ronaldinho, Deco and Andres Iniesta.

'Ali told me he went completely mad,' said Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp. His goalkeeper was retelling anyone who would listen the same story on Friday. Out with his friends celebrating, the emotion in the city of Porto Alegre.

He said that back home they marked the date of that victory — December 17, 2006 — this week. The 13th anniversary, always a milestone of significance.

Alisson Becker vividly recalls Brazilian side Internacional beating Barcelona in the 2006 final

Internacional defied the odds to beat a star-studded Barcelona side 1-0 in Yokohama, Japan

Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp is well aware what a win will mean for the people of Brazil

In the present, little has changed. Flamengo will have brought roughly 15,000 from Brazil to Qatar, compared to little more than a thousand from Liverpool. Flamengo's team bus departed to the airport amid manic scenes, Liverpool to a debate over priorities.

'Flamengo got sent here from their country with a clear order: To win it, and come back as heroes,' deadpanned Klopp. 'We got told: Stay at home and play in the Carabao Cup.'

The Club World Cup — and its predecessor, the Intercontinental Cup — has always been bigger in South America than Europe, but as the continent's talent drain intensifies, it appears to be growing in emotional as well as national significance.

At Brazil's World Cup in 2014 a distance between the team and the fans was increasingly apparent. Just four of Brazil's squad played in their country, and two of those were goalkeepers. More typical was the experience of David Luiz, who played just 26 games in Brazilian league football before decamping to Europe.

Flamengo boss Jorge Jesus has conceded his side are the inferior of the two finalists

Flamengo have veterans Rafinha and Felipe Luis but present an unknown quantity

So, in the absence of a national team that feels truly Brazilian, the quest of clubs to represent the region in the Club World Cup appears increasingly noble. It is the reverse of Europe's super elite with their global line-ups.

Flamengo's starting XI on Saturday is likely to include 10 Brazilians — Pablo Mari, a Spaniard who signed for Manchester City in 2016 and spent a day there before being sent to Girona on loan is the exception — and manager Jorge Jesus succinctly identified the importance. 'This is the best in the world versus the best of Brazil,' he said.

As such, 2019 should see another European victory, the seventh straight since Corinthians defeated Chelsea in 2012.

Indeed, Jesus' press conference on Friday opened with a statement — not a question — so blunt it could have been attached to a shaft and used to tenderise steak.

'Liverpool are better than Flamengo,' said the gentleman, in Portuguese, and sat down. To his credit, Jesus treated this bombshell with politeness.

A win will mean a lot for Liverpool who have never triumphed in the competition before

'The top clubs in Europe have the budgets to recruit the top players in Latin America,' he said. 'But I am happy with our level given our differences.'

The last time these clubs met in an intercontinental final, Flamengo's team included Zico and Junior, legends of the Brazilian game who these days would have spent the majority of their careers in Europe. Zico was two seasons with Udinese, Junior five with Torino and Pescara.

By contrast, the most familiar names in the current Flamengo team are those who have returned home having spent long periods abroad. Rafinha was 14 years at Schalke, Genoa and — most successfully — Bayern Munich, Filipe Luis was a huge hit in Spain, most notably with Atletico Madrid, less so at Chelsea.

Yet for all the reasons Klopp said, Flamengo are dangerous. 'They have a very intense style, a very organised style, a really settled line-up where everyone knows what they have to do,' he said.

The game is of significance to Brazilians who have lost a host of talent to European clubs

'They have different ways of playing, they can be more direct, creative in the centre, cheeky on the wings, they shoot from everywhere — they are just like a successful football team should be. And they are not used to losing games any more. They finished the season on a super high, by turning everything around from eight points behind to 16 points in front, while winning the Copa Libertadores, too.' He paused to draw breath. 'And this is their 74th game — that's impressive,' he added.

Indeed it is, meaning there will be no question of squad rotation on Saturday evening. If the best Liverpool team is fit, the best Liverpool team plays — so the first-choice forward trident and Virgil van Dijk if he is sufficiently recovered from illness.

Klopp is taking heart from the fact that, while some of the domestic audience still don't get it, inside the walls of the dressing-room not a single Liverpool player is unenthused at the prospect of becoming world champions.

'We spoke about it a few months ago and I asked how did they want to play it,' Klopp said. 'Not deciding whether to play, but how did they see it? And they said, "We go!" Since then it's never changed. They didn't need Ali telling them or Bobby Firmino or Fabinho talking about the importance to them. They are footballers, they are sportsmen and they want to win everything they can.

'We are playing against a side from a country and a continent where this competition means everything and, in England, we have to explain why we come here. That's how Europe looks at the world, that we are the centre of attention.

'Yet since we are here we respect this more and more second by second because you get a feeling for it, and you watch the games and it is all or nothing. We saw that, adapted to it, won our semi-final in a very difficult situation and now we try to do the same again.

'I don't know why it means more in South America. You can't explain things like this. You win the NBA you are world champion, which is funny enough, but you win the Champions League and it feels like that, as if that's the only competition. As a kid in Germany was I aware of the Club World Cup, like Ali? No, no, no. Germany is the same as England. We're all European and that's how we see it.

'You want to be the domestic champion, win a domestic cup and then want to win a European trophy and that's it. This is where football ends usually for European teams. So I think the Champions League is the most difficult to win, but that doesn't mean there are no other competitions. I respect both.'

One of the most evocative memories of Chelsea's defeat to Corinthians — nine Brazilians in the starting line-up, plus Emerson, who had accepted Qatari nationality — was the reaction of individual players. Chelsea's group were disappointed to lose, obviously, but the Brazilian contingent, Luiz in particular, were distraught.

He would not admit it, one imagines, but winning here might even mean more to Alisson than the win that got him to Qatar — over Tottenham in the Champions League final.

'It's a dream come true,' he said. 'Watching as a supporter of Internacional I was so excited. Then I started to dream of this. Now I am here, with the opportunity to win it for the first time with Liverpool. I am really happy.'

Klopp was beaming, too. 'You have the opportunity to do something Liverpool have never done?' he was asked. 'Yes, train in the sun,' he said.

He will not mind returning to the cold wintry north on Sunday, of course. As long as Liverpool have another trophy to keep him warm.