Lara Worthington (née Bingle) only recently confirmed she's expecting her third child with husband Sam, following months of speculation.

And on Friday, the model flashed her blossoming baby bump as she went shopping in Beverly Hills, Los Angeles, where she's now based.

The 32-year-old beauty entrepreneur cut a casual figure on the day in an all-black ensemble, which she teamed with a grey blazer, and toted a Chanel shopping bag.

Baby on board! Pregnant Lara Bingle flashed her baby bump in a low-key black ensemble as she went shopping in Los Angeles on Friday

The blonde wore black jeans and a T-shirt with a pair of edgy black boots.

She wore minimal make-up for the casual outing and kept her short blonde locks whisked back into a sleek bun.

Despite the rumour mill spinning for months, Lara only confirmed her pregnancy at the end of November.

Edgy! The doting mum teamed her look with a pair of comfortable black boots, while she kept her body warm from the chilly December air with an oversized grey blazer

She already shares two sons, Rocket, four, and Racer, two, with her actor husband, Sam Worthington, 43, whom she married in late 2014.

'Yes, I'm pregnant,' she told Vogue Australia last month. 'I'm having a boy, early next year. It's my third boy, and we're all very happy.'

'I think any addition brings joy and happiness to the family, but more so when you can share it with the other boys. It's such a boys' club in my house!'

Growing family: Lara already shares two sons, Rocket, four, and Racer, two, with her actor husband, Sam Worthington (right), whom she married in late 2014. Pictured in November 2017

Lara added that Rocket and Racer already know about the new baby and they're 'excited' to meet their little brother.

She said: ''All boys, I think, want a brother. So another brother… you know, it's building the football team. They're excited!'

The notoriously private couple began dating in 2013 and tied the knot just a year later.

Lara told The Kyle and Jackie O show when they first started dating: 'When you know, you know.'