Mariah Carey is officially in her element with Christmas just days away and her iconic holiday track on every radio station.

But the five-time Grammy-winner still prepares for the holiday season just like the rest of us.

She was spotted Sunday in a black and white look as she stepped out for some Christmas shopping in Aspen hand-in-hand with beau Bryan Tanaka.

On-the-go: Mariah Carey was spotted Sunday in a black and white look as she stepped out for some Christmas shopping in Aspen hand-in-hand with beau Bryan Tanaka

The 49-year-old bundled up from the Colorado cold weather in a thick black puffy jacket.

Her jacket was paired with a cozy-looking ankle-length black and white checkered dress.

She completed the look with a pair of round black cat-eye sunglasses and some black stilettos.

Happy: The 49-year-old bundled up from the Colorado cold weather in a thick black puffy jacket

Winter chic: The jacket was paired with a cozy-looking ankle-length black and white checkered dress. She completed the look with a pair of round black cat-eye sunglasses and some black stilettos

Carey got in some retail therapy as she perused some clothing racks outside of a local boutique.

The outing comes just days after she released a new music video for her classic holiday hit All I Want for Christmas Is You.

Made 25 years after the original track, this video is dubbed the Make My Wish Come True Edition.

It features Carey in a fitted red Santa bodysuit as she comes to life in a shop display window with some nutcrackers, snowmen and teddy bears.

Holiday classic: The outing comes just days after she released a new music video for her classic holiday hit All I Want for Christmas Is You

New and improved: Made 25 years after the original track, this video is dubbed the Make My Wish Come True Edition

Mrs. Claus: It features Carey in a fitted red Santa bodysuit as she comes to life in a shop display window with some nutcrackers, snowmen and teddy bears

Winter wonderland: She then sneaks away to a winter wonderland, where she performs the iconic tune with some festive backup dancers

Mama's kids: The video also features an appearance from her twin son Moroccan and daughter Monroe, both eight

She then sneaks away to a winter wonderland, where she performs the iconic tune with some festive backup dancers.

The video also features an appearance from her twin son Moroccan and daughter Monroe, both eight.

It was a huge upscale in production quality from the original video, which was released in 1994.

The grainy home video-style piece featured a young Carey playing around in snow while then-husband Tommy Mottola made an appearance as Santa.