Darryn Frost, 38, above, is the hero who fought Usman Khan with a narwhal tusk as the London Bridge terrorist stabbed people

A brave civil servant who fought Usman Khan with a narwhal tusk as the London Bridge terrorist stabbed people spoke for the first time yesterday about his actions.

Darryn Frost, 38, grabbed the artefact from the wall in Fishmongers’ Hall, at the north end of the bridge, as Khan went on a killing spree on November 29 during a prisoner rehabilitation event.

Mr Frost, a South African who works in the Ministry of Justice communications department and has lived in Britain for 14 years, was filmed fighting Khan, who was running at people with knives taped to his writes. His identity was not known until yesterday.

Mr Frost said he grabbed the tusk from the wall and used it against Khan as another man kept the terrorist at bay with a wooden chair.

'When we heard the noise from the floor below, a few of us rushed to the scene,' said the 38-year-old.

'I took a narwhal tusk from the wall and used it to defend myself and others from the attacker. Another man was holding the attacker at bay with a wooden chair.

'I ran down the stairs, stood next to the man with the chair, and the two of us confronted the attacker.'

He added: ‘He had knives in both hands and, upon seeing me with the narwhal tusk, pointed at his midriff he turned and spoke to me, then indicated he had an explosive device around his waist.

Mr Frost said he grabbed the tusk from the wall and used it against Khan as another man kept the terrorist at bay with a wooden chair. Members of the public are pictured above tackling Usman Khan

Mr Frost recounted his selfless actions on the day Khan’s victims, Jack Merritt and Saskia Jones, were celebrated by family and friends at two separate church services

‘At this point, the man next to me threw his chair at the attacker, who then started running towards him with knives raised above his head.’

Mr Frost passed the tusk to his unarmed comrade before racing back upstairs to find another to use.

Darryn Frost, 38, grabbed the artefact from the wall in Fishmongers’ Hall, at the north end of the bridge

When he returned, he found the first tusk ‘shattered across the floor’ and saw people fleeing the building.

He said: ‘Along with others, I pursued the attacker, tusk in hand, on to the bridge. We called out to warn the public of the danger and, after a struggle, managed to restrain him to the ground.’

Mr Frost added: ‘At that point I was trying to isolate the blades by holding his wrists so that he could not hurt anyone or set off the device.’

Footage from the attack shows Mr Frost pinning Khan to the ground before he is pulled away by a police officer and the terrorist is shot dead seconds later.

Mr Frost recounted his selfless actions on the day Khan’s victims, Jack Merritt and Saskia Jones, were celebrated by family and friends at two separate church services.

Rock star Nick Cave performed Into My Arms at the funeral service for Mr Merritt in Cambridge after the 25-year-old’s friends carried his wicker casket to the Smiths' song This Charming Man.

The service for Miss Jones, 23, took place at the Holy Trinity Church in Stratford-upon-Avon, where William Shakespeare is buried.

Mr Merritt’s girlfriend Leanne O’Brien led the tributes to the Cambridge graduate at the service at St Mary’s Church, telling a congregation of hundreds: ‘He made me feel it was possible to achieve anything and everything. I’ll miss your big heart and how loved you made me feel.’

Miss Jones and Mr Merritt were attending a Cambridge University event called Learning Together, designed to help rehabilitate inmates, when they were attacked at Fishmongers’ Hall in central London.

Khan was attending the event himself, having been jailed on terror charges.

Mr Frost offered his 'sincere condolences' to the victims’ families and friends, adding: 'In reading about their lives and work I am convinced they represent all that is good in the world, and I will always feel the deep hurt of not being able to save them.'

He praised those injured for being 'so brave' and wished them a 'speedy recovery', saying some refused treatment until others who were more seriously hurt were tended to first, adding: 'That consideration and kindness filled me with hope on that dark day.'

Mr Frost said he was 'eternally grateful' to the prisoners and public who ran to help, adding: 'Not only do I want to thank those who confronted the attacker, but also those who put themselves in danger to tend to the injured, relying on us to protect them while they cared for others.

'To the emergency services: you did yourselves and the country proud. I thank you too.

'To the public: I hope that the part I played in these terrible events can be used for good.”

He urged people to get behind a project he has launched, called Extinguish Hate, to 'challenge hate and spread kindness' and asked people to donate to the victims’ fundraising pages - saskia-jones.muchloved.com and the 'Celebration of the life of Jack Merritt' on GoFundMe.com

Mr Frost said he had omitted 'many details' of his account of the incident 'out of respect for the victims and their families' and in consideration for the ongoing investigation and inquests into the attack.

He said he now wants 'time and space' to continue his recovery since the 'traumatic events of that day' but urged the press to use its 'amazing ability to connect with people' as a force for good to 'unify this country'.

'I feel we all have a duty to challenge the spread of fear, hatred or intolerance within our communities,' he added.

Jack Merritt's coffin is pictured above leaving Great St Mary's Church in Cambridge

Mr Merritt’s girlfriend Leanne O’Brien led the tributes to the Cambridge graduate at the service at St Mary’s Church

Rock star Nick Cave performed Into My Arms at the funeral service for Mr Merritt in Cambridge after the 25-year-old’s friends carried his wicker casket to the Smiths song This Charming Man. Mourners are pictured outside his funeral

Parents and girlfriend of London Bridge victim Jack Merritt say their final goodbyes at his funeral where rock star Nick Cave sang 'Into My Arms' as mourners attend Saskia Jones's memorial service

Rock star Nick Cave was today among mourners at London Bridge victim Jack Merritt's funeral and performed for the congregation as friends and family gathered to say goodbye to the 25-year-old Cambridge graduate.

Cave, 62, paid tribute to Jack by performing Into My Arms as the last song of the service, while Mr Merritt's girlfriend Leanne O'Brien and former prisoner and close friend of Jack, John Crilly, who was pictured tackling the London Bridge terrorist with a fire extinguisher, were also among the hundreds of mourners.

Pallbearers were seen carrying the coffin during Mr Merritt's funeral at Great St Mary's Church in Cambridge, with parents Anne and David arriving arm-in-arm to at the funeral service for their beloved son.

Mr Merritt's tearful girlfriend Leanne listed all the things she would miss about him, from his dancing and laugh to cooking and going to brunch together, and his brother Joe wrote: 'I couldn't ask for a better role model as a brother.'

Those close to fellow victim, Saskia Jones also paid tribute during a memorial service, led by Rev Patrick Taylor, at Holy Trinity Church in Stratford-Upon-Avon.

Ms Jones' mother Michelle Jones, her grandmother, and other family members attended the memorial, and had held a private funeral earlier today.

Mr Merritt, 25, and Ms Jones, 23, were killed by Usman Khan during a prisoner rehabilitation event at Fishmongers' Hall in central London on November 29.

Mourners began arriving at the church for Ms Jones' memorial just after 11am. Reading the tribute, Rev Michael Price, deputy headteacher of Bloxham School, said Ms Jones was a 'life-shaper', and 'never forgotten'.

The coffin arrives for the funeral of London Bridge terror attack victim Jack Merritt at Great St Mary's Church in Cambridge

The order of service for a memorial service for London Bridge terror attack victim Saskia Jones at Holy Trinity Church in Stratford-upon-Avon

Rock star Nick Cave was today among the mourners at Jack Merritt's funeral and performed Into My Arms as the last song of the service. He is pictured (right) leaving the service with wife Susie Bick

London Bridge terror attack victims (left) Jack Merritt, 25, of Cottenham, Cambridgeshire and (right) Saskia Jones, 23, of Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire

Michelle Jones, the mother of London Bridge terror attack victim Saskia Jones, is comforted following her daughter's memorial service at Holy Trinity Church in Stratford-upon-Avon

There were readings by both Ms Jones' uncle, Phil Jones - who read Psalm 121, and her mother, who recited Nicole Lyons' I Hope That Someday When I Am Gone.

'I hope that someday when I am gone, someone, somewhere, picks my soul up off of these pages and thinks, I would have loved her.'

She added: 'Thank you all for your love, thank you all for your support.'

The service concluded with the playing of James Blunt track, The Greatest.

The family requested donations for Warwickshire and Northamptonshire Air Ambulance.

The girlfriend of Mr Merritt, Leanne O'Brien, was among hundreds of mourners attending his hour-long service today, appearing to hold back tears as she arrived to say her goodbyes.

Mourners made their way through the ancient doors of Great St Mary's Church in the market square shortly before 12.30pm.

Friends of Mr Merritt carried his wicker casket into a full to capacity church while This Charming Man by the Smiths played.

Pictured: The Funeral Service for Jack Merritt which took place today in Cambridge at Great St Mary's Church

Jack Merritt's girlfriend Leanne O'Brien, second left, leaves the funeral of London Bridge terror attack victim Mr Merritt at Great St Mary's Church in Cambridge

Jack 's mother Anne leaving Great St Marys Church after his funeral. The Funeral Service for Jack Merritt took place today in Cambridge at Great St Mary's Church

Ms O'Brien, who laid a hand on his casket as she walked to the front of the congregation of hundreds, said she and Mr Merritt had been 'inseparable' and that he gave her 'the best two and a half years of my life'.

'He made me feel it was possible to achieve anything and everything,' she said.

'I'll miss your big heart and how loved you made me feel.

'Most of all I'll miss a future that we had planned together.'

Mr Merritt's father David told mourners the family had received letters from prisoners praising his son who they knew through the Learning Together rehabilitation programme.

Attendee John Crilly, who subdued attacker Usman Khan alongside a chef armed with a long pole, had previously described Jack as 'the best guy I ever met'.

Amy Ludlow, who set up the Learning Together prisoner rehabilitation programme on which Mr Merritt was a course co-ordinator, said he was a 'talented, vivacious and much cherished' member of its community.

She said: 'You were the man who wore a politics of love on your sleeve, who had more ''cool'' than we will ever know... and who embraced life's many diverse and beautiful riches, wholeheartedly, and always with friends.

'We are heartbroken to lose you and we miss you so much. We will take forward your politics of love, with renewed hope and courage.'

Mourners arrive for the funeral of London Bridge terror attack victim Jack Merritt at Great St Mary's Church in Cambridge

Mourners who travelled in the family cortege arrive at a memorial service for London Bridge terror attack victim Saskia Jones

Ms Jones' mother Michelle Jones (pictured), her grandmother, and other family members attended the memorial, and had held a private funeral earlier in the day

Joining her at the front of the church, other representatives from Learning Together hailed Mr Merritt's 'incurable kindness' and 'unrelenting compassion'.

One man, identified just as Gareth, told mourners: 'Jack didn't make assumptions about people, and he had empathy - not sympathy - for the people he met.

'He didn't simply feel sorry for people, he felt compelled to do something.'

A group of 10 of Mr Merritt's friends who affectionately call themselves 'the brothers' also shared memories and jokes about him.

They recalled bonding over music, drinking Guinness together, his love of hip-hop and receiving a 'bear hug' from him.

One friend said: 'He understood and accepted all of us, that kind of compassion is a gift he gave so many people.'

Eulogies were given by Jack's friends, his brother, and Leanne. The final tribute was given by his father Dave Merritt before the service concluded with a commendation and farewell by Rev Daffern.

Rev Daffern Jack was a 'remarkable man' and said his legacy would live on.

He said after the service : 'It was a beautiful service, a mixture of some of Jack's favourite music and some amazing tributes from his friends, from his girlfriend and from his father.

'I don't think anyone in the church could leave without tears, without heartbreak, he was a remarkable man.

'His short life was a triumph and I think Jack's legacy will go on.

'What we gained today was that although his life is lost all that he achieved in that short life is not lost. There's a lot of positivity around.'

'There is a tribute in the order of service from Leanne and it records a Valentines Day message from Jack to Leanne which talks about putting others first.'

Mourners left the church to the sounds of Cave's singing his poignant track and gathered outside in silence as his casket was placed back into the hearse.

Earlier this month Ms O'Brien paid tribute to her boyfriend Mr Merritt for opening doors 'for those that society turned their backs on' following his death

Michelle Jones, the mother of London Bridge terror attack victim Saskia Jones, leaves following her memorial service at Holy Trinity Church in Stratford-upon-Avon

Jack Merritt's parents Anne and David,centre, and girlfriend Leanne O'Brien, second from right, arrive for the funeral of the London Bridge terror attack victim

Family members of the victim of the terror attack in Fishmongers' Hall on London Bridge, University of Cambridge graduate Saskia Jones, arrive for a memorial service

Leanne looked on, comforted by friends, but her loud sobbing echoed across the square and her distress was plain to all who could see her.

Earlier well-wishers had placed floral tribute outside Cambridge Guildhall in memory of Jack and fellow University of Cambridge graduate Ms Jones.

Earlier this month Ms O'Brien paid tribute to her boyfriend Mr Merritt, sharing a letter written by Mr Merritt's father.

Ms O'Brien wrote on Facebook: 'My love, you are phenomenal and have opened so many doors for those that society turned their backs on. Together, we will make a difference.'

Mr Merritt and Ms Jones were stabbed to death by Usman Khan at Fishmongers' Hall while working at a prisoner's rehabilitation conference.

Writing in the Guardian, David Merritt had previously said his son would be 'livid' if he could comment on his death.

'He would be seething at his death, and his life, being used to perpetuate an agenda of hate that he gave his everything fighting against,' he said.

'We should never forget that. What Jack would want from this is for all of us to walk through the door he has booted down, in his black Doc Martens.'

Jack Merritt's girlfriend Leanne O'Brien (centre) arrives for the funeral of the London Bridge terror attack victim at Great St Mary's Church in Cambridge

The girlfriend of Mr Merritt, Leanne O'Brien, was among those attending his rainy service today, appearing to hold back tears as she arrived to say her goodbyes

Pallbearers were seen preparing to carry the coffin at Mr Merritt's funeral at Great St Mary's Church in Cambridge today

Michelle Jones, mother of the victim of the terror attack in Fishmongers' Hall on London Bridge, University of Cambridge graduate Saskia Jones, leaves after attending a Saskia's memorial service at Holy Trinity Church in Stratford-Upon-Avon

Family members of the victim of the terror attack in Fishmongers' Hall on London Bridge, University of Cambridge graduate Saskia Jones, arrive for a memorial service at Holy Trinity Church in Stratford-Upon-Avon, central England on December 20, 2019

A mourner arrives at a memorial service for London Bridge terror attack victim Saskia Jones at Holy Trinity Church in Stratford-upon-Avon

He added: 'He lived and breathed fire in his pursuit of a better world for all humanity, particularly those most in need.'

Convicted terrorist Usman Khan, who was released from prison early with a tag despite plotting to blow up the London Stock Exchange, killed the two Cambridge graduates after successfully overturning his original sentence for his part in a plot to blow up the London Stock Exchange.

Khan injured three others during his rampage which started at a prisoner rehabilitation conference less than a year after he was released from jail on licence half way through a 16-year jail sentence.

He was banned from London under the terms of his bail but used the cover of the education event to commit murder with knives and spark fear by wearing a fake terror belt.

The 'devastated' family of Ms Jones have thanked wellwishers for their support following the death of their 'brilliant and caring daughter' who 'touched so many lives in such a short space of time'.

Saskia Jones, 23, (pictured) of Stratford-upon-Avon, died alongside Jack Merritt, 25, of Cottenham, Cambridgeshire, after Usman Khan went on a stabbing frenzy in London

Khan killed two and injured three others before he was shot dead by police on Friday, November 29 (pictured, the scene of the struggle when brave members of the public tackle Khan)

Cambridge University graduate Jack Merritt, 25, was attacked at an event near London Bridge. Mr Merritt and Miss Jones were stabbed to death by Usman Khan at Fishmongers' Hall while working at a prisoner's rehabilitation conference

Ms Jones' family released a tribute saying they are 'devastated' by her death but thanked all those who had come forward to share their support following the heartbreaking news.

Describing her as 'a brilliant, caring daughter, grand-daughter, niece, cousin, friend and colleague,' they said in a statement: 'We would like to thank all those who have expressed their condolences over the past week, since the events of Friday 29 November.

'We are very grateful for the huge number of messages of support we have received from family, friends and strangers alike.

'Their thoughts are very much appreciated.

'It has been made very clear that Saskia is held in the highest esteem by many people and that she had touched so many lives in a short time.'