Priyanka Chopra stepped out of her New York City hotel, the Four Seasons, on Friday.

The Quantico star was seen in a cream colored outfit with white heels and a chic teal purse as she walked with the youngest Jonas brother, Frankie.

The raven haired beauty made her appearance soon after her husband Nick left the same hotel. With him were his brothers Joe and Kevin. They recently wrapped the US dates of their comeback tour, Happiness Begins.

See ya: Priyanka Chopra stepped out of her New York City hotel, the Four Seasons, on Friday

Beauty: The Quantico star was seen in a cream colored outfit with white heels and a chic teal purse

Kevin, 32, led the band out of their hotel in the Tribeca area of Manhattan wearing a green puffer jacket with black slacks.

Joe, 30, followed closely behind in a dapper coat paired with dark jeans and a matching scarf.

He slung a chic black bag across his shoulder and showed off a bit of facial scruff to match his jet black hair.

There are so many Jonas brothers! By her side was the youngest Jonas brother, Frankie

A big rock: She flashes her large diamond ring from Nick; the star also rocked some very chic sunglasses

The slacks that spell chic: The screen star wore silk slacks that had a rust and white stripe down the side

Nick looked most relaxed of all in a camo-colored jacket worn on top of a maroon hooded sweatshirt.

The 27-year-old actor wore a backpack and carried a projector by his side while leaving the hotel with his brothers.

Following closely behind the guys, Priyanka stayed warm in a cream-colored coat worn on top of a thick sweater.

All together now: The Jonas Brothers were ready for another gig as they left their hotel

Stylish: Joe looked suave in a long suit jacket and Kevin rocked a green puffy jacket to match Nick's ensemble

This way: Kevin, 32, led the band out of their hotel in the Tribeca area of Manhattan wearing a green puffer jacket with black slacks

Looking good: Joe, 30, followed closely behind in a dapper coat paired with dark jeans and a matching scarf

She added a pair of sporty yet stylish slacks to match her bright white boots, and carried a turquoise bag by her side.

The brothers recently wrapped the third leg of their sold-out tour at the fabulous Forum in Inglewood, California.

They'll soon take their talents across the pond for 16 shows in Europe, with stops in England, Ireland, Scotland, Belgium and Italy, to name just a few.

Casual: Nick looked most relaxed of all in a camo-colored jacket worn on top of a maroon hooded sweatshirt