Arteta has been part of one of the greatest think tanks in Premier League history

Listening to Kevin De Bruyne's analysis of Manchester City's 3-0 away win over Arsenal last week, he sounded like a manager.

He explained how their opponents' front four would press but when City bypassed them, everybody would stay up.

Only 18-year-old Gabriel Martinelli might drop to help defend, he said.

Mikel Arteta will know Arsenal back to front after Manchester City's win over the Gunners

As De Bruyne explained, that gave City 'spaces all over the pitch' to exploit.

The Belgian has clearly been well educated by Pep Guardiola.

So has Mikel Arteta, you suspect, and he will know Arsenal back to front after that match.

He will have seen how disjointed that forward line of Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, Nicolas Pepe, Mesut Ozil and Martinelli was. City set traps to test Arsenal's team intelligence.

It will take time for new Arsenal boss to implement his ideas. It is not going to be an easy fix

Rodri and Ilkay Gundogan sat in midfield while De Bruyne had a free role.

Then there was Gabriel Jesus up top, Raheem Sterling on the right, Phil Foden on the left.

When Arsenal had the ball inside their own box, City's two wingers stayed on the full backs — Sterling on Sead Kolasinac, Foden on Ainsley Maitland-Niles — while Jesus sat on Calum Chambers. That forced the ball to Sokratis.

When that happened, Sterling would fly across to close in on him with right back Kyle Walker pushing on to Kolasinac. This left De Bruyne in midfield, free to patrol and pounce whenever they regained the ball.

So, while City left three up, Arsenal left four. City had bodies in midfield; Arsenal didn't. One killer pass and Freddie Ljungberg's front line could be taken out.

This is something Arteta will want to work on, though it will take time for him to implement his ideas. It is not going to be an easy fix.

Arteta has been part of one of the greatest think tanks in Premier League history

Arteta has been part of one of the greatest think tanks in Premier League history. Guardiola is one of the best ever to manage — the man in charge of a winning machine.

He is friends with chess grandmaster Garry Kasparov and has spoken of his admiration for current world champion Magnus Carlsen.

I think his football is influenced by that.

He is strategic in everything he does, reacting to every move his opponent makes.

You could even say his full backs are like rooks, raiding the flanks.

De Bruyne can be seen as a knight, slicing through midfield.

The Belgian knows City's system inside out and that's why he spoke so analytically about Arsenal last week.

City have so many good characteristics, such as how Sterling can drop deep to receive a pinpoint floated pass from Ederson on the halfway line.

Guardiola's signature set-up is 4-3-3, so I wonder if that will be Arteta's way, too.

At times, in the absence of a proper centre-back partnership, City have looked too open and Arsenal do not have the best options in central defence themselves.

Pep Guardiola is one of the best ever to manage — the man in charge of a winning machine

So, does Arteta deviate from the City philosophy or is it so strong in his mind that he tries to make it work regardless?

Arteta has learned so much from Guardiola. Guardiola regards Johan Cruyff as his mentor, and Cruyff regarded Rinus Michels as his mentor.

The late, great Dutchman was the architect of Total Football — the man who managed Ajax, Barcelona and Holland with such impressive results in the Seventies and Eighties.

Is Arteta the next in line? We're about to find out. The difference is that he didn't play under Guardiola like the City manager did under Cruyff, and like Cruyff did under Michels. So his education has been somewhat different from those before him.

For so long, Arteta has been the man standing alongside Guardiola, listening intently.

Now, at Arsenal, he has to do all the talking.