It's set to be a dark Christmas in Weatherfield as one character may not survive to see the New Year.

And Coronation Street star Craige Els has revealed that there could be a 'tragic twist' in the soap's Christmas Day gun siege, as his character Derek Milligan becomes an 'accidental villain' in violent scenes.

The soap star said that viewers will be kept guessing as to whether everyone will survive the rampage, as spoiler snaps from the episode hint that Derek will scuffle with Gary before storming the Rovers Return with the antique rifle.

Drama: Coronation Street star Craige Els has revealed that there could be a 'tragic twist' in the soap's Christmas Day gun siege, as his character Derek Milligan becomes an 'accidental villain'

In dramatic festive scenes, Derek will steal a rifle from the antiques shop as he becomes determined to get revenge on Gary (played by Mikey North) for stopping him from reuniting with his family.

But actor has said that fans will be kept guessing as to whether everyone in the Street will survive the rampage, as Derek storms Weatherfield's Winter Wonderland with the weapon.

Craige said: 'He comes back needing the extra money for Disneyland to try and salvage his life and really start again, that is what everything hinges on and when Gary takes that away from him completely, doesn't give him the money and makes him miss the flight, he is just broken.

'Gary has created a very dangerous beast, when someone has nothing to lose they will do extreme things and he wants revenge.'

Terrifying: The soap star said that viewers will be kept guessing as to whether everyone will survive the rampage, as his character Derek drunkenly steals a gun

'He gets a text from his wife saying he will never see his kids again, his world has fallen apart and he has nothing to lose. Add the drink to that and the discovery of the gun, anything could happen.'

Explaining the moment that Derek storms the Rovers Return with the gun, he added: 'He just wants to scare Gary. He wants to see Gary as scared as Gary has made him feel and for once have the upper hand.

'What he doesn't anticipate is how far it could go and that's the tragic twist. It isn't a plot by him to go on the rampage on the street and kill anyone, he is not an evil man.'

Scary: In new snaps from the scenes, it appears that Derek and Gary will scuffle with the weapon, perhaps leading a bullet to be fired

Craige also said: 'He was once a powerful man and he has had all that power taken away from him by the one man who has now taken the most precious thing away from him.

'He has been pushed, he is broken and wild, but he is not evil, there is no malicious intent. There is no premeditation. He is not Pat Phelan or Richard Hillman, he is an accidental gunman, an accidental villain.

'Things snowball out of his control and he is devastated by what he ends up doing.'

Who will survive? It remains to be seen whether everyone in Weatherfield will survive the gun siege, as bosses have hinted that several characters will get caught in the crossfire

It remains to be seen whether everyone in Weatherfield will survive the gun siege, as bosses have hinted that several characters will get caught in the crossfire.

New snaps from the scene seem to show Derek and Gary scuffling on the steps for the Winter Wonderland's Helter Skelter, perhaps leading to a bullet being fired.

It has been teased that it could be David Platt's (Jack P Shepherd) wife Shona (Julia Goulding) is the unfortunate victim, after she sets up a treasure hunt with herself as a final prize.

Robert Preston (Tristan Gemmill) could also be killed, after scorned ex Michelle Connor (Kym Marsh) plotted with his pregnant lover Vicky to frame him for her 'murder.'

Coronation Street's Christmas Day gun siege will air on Wednesday at 8pm on ITV.