Rangers boss Steven Gerrard was left incensed after defender Borna Barisic was poleaxed by a horror challenge and narrowly avoided being struck with a glass bottle at Hibernian.

Croatian Barisic had been sent spinning to the turf after a poor tackle from Ryan Porteous, which saw the Scotland Under-21 international shown a straight red card.

And after tensions had flared in both technical areas, Hibernian assistant John Potter and Gers' coach Tom Culshaw were both banished to the stands - with Gerrard also wading into the fracas.

Rangers boss Steven Gerrard was incensed after a horror challenge on defender Borna Barisic

The unsavoury scenes at Easter Road continued with Barisic left reeling from the lunge, as a bottle was hurled in the left back's direction from the East Stand.

The Rangers players were also forced to dodge a series of objects flung from supporters as they celebrated in Leith - and pictures show Scott Arfield handing over another unidentified object to police during the feisty encounter.

Gerrard praised his players for keeping their cool and when asked what the visitors had faced, said: ‘Bottles, lighters and all kind of objects.

‘It’s not my business. It’s down to Hibs to deal with that.

Both technical areas had clashed after the tackle and Hibernian's Ryan Porteous was sent off

‘But we don’t want to see that in any stadium. We want players to be safe, want fans to be safe.’

The former Liverpool and England captain also made no excuse for the technical-area melee that prompted referee Nick Walsh to take action.

‘I think both benches won’t be proud of seeing that back. That’s not what it’s all about. We need to control our emotions better.

‘It was a straight red card. We were disappointed with Hibs trying to defend that. It’s a straight red. We could see that from a hundred metres away.’

Barisic also narrowly avoided being struck by a glass battle thrown from fans in the East Stand

The last time Rangers had made the trip to Easter Road, club captain James Tavernier was confronted by a supporter who had run onto the field.

Hibs chief executive Leeann Dempster threatened to close a section of the ground in response to the incident.

Gerrard added: ‘We spoke to our players on numerous occasions, told them to keep their cool in this situations. I’m very pleased with their behaviour.’

Ryan Kent, Joe Aribo and Jermain Defoe were all on target for Rangers, who closed the gap on Premiership leaders Celtic to two points.