Former City Minister Paul Myners, 71, and his wife Alison, 60, are 'no longer together'

Lord Myners could take a hit on his reputed £56million fortune when he divorces his wife Alison after 24 years of marriage.

Former City Minister Paul Myners, 71, and his wife Alison, 60, are 'no longer together' after separating on 'amicable' terms, it has been revealed.

'Yes, we are no longer together, but all is amicable,' the businessman told Richard Eden. 'She’s a wonderful woman and we are currently going through a divorce'.

Lady Myners, with whom he shares two children, is said have moved on with television producer Stephen Garrett, 62, who is known for his work on hit BBC spy dramas Spooks and The Night Manager.

The pair are understood to have met through Lady Myners' role as chairman of the Royal Academy of Arts. They co-hosted a Christmas party in Hampstead, North London earlier this week.

Lord Myners, who is said to be worth more than £56 million, had humble beginnings as the adopted son of a Cornish butcher in Truro.

He has since firmly secured his place in the Establishment - having been ennobled in 2008 when Gordon Brown brought him into the Government as a Treasury Minister with responsibility for the City.

He served as the Financial Services Secretary in HM Treasury from October 2008 to May 2010, and was consequently made a life peer.

Lady Myners, with whom Lord Myners (right) shares two children, is said have moved on with television producer Stephen Garrett (left together, with Tracey Emin)

Lord Myners, who is said to be worth more than £56 million, had humble beginnings as the adopted son of a Cornish butcher

The father-of-five has also previously served as chairman of the trustees of the Tate and chairman of the Low Pay Commission.

On Thursday, Premiership Rugby announced an independent review of salary cap regulations following the Saracens scandal.

Lord Myners will lead the process, which is intended to strengthen the powers of the salary cap in time for next season.

Premiership Rugby (PRL) said they want to 'provide a world-leading system with extensive investigatory powers and appropriately robust sanctions'.

Ex-City minister Lord Myners, who sits as a cross-bencher in the House of Lords and previously chaired M&S, has already begun work and is due to make his recommendations in the second quarter of next year, which could then be implemented in the 2020/21 season.

Darren Childs, chief executive of PRL, said: 'The success of Premiership Rugby is based on a group of fiercely competitive clubs who agree to play by the same set of rules on and off the pitch.

'The Salary Cap has been fundamental to promoting competition since its introduction and, while we continue to apply the existing regulations robustly, this Review is designed to ensure that we have a world-leading framework in place for the future.'