This is the moment a double amputee accused of arranging to meet a 14-year-old girl he messaged online was confronted by police.

Scott Edgar allegedly messaged who he thought was a 14-year-old girl online last month.

He is accused of arranging to meet the girl at her Sydney home when her mother was not there.

Edgar drove two hours from his home in Kurri Kurri, in the NSW Hunter Valley.

But when he arrived he was confronted by several police officers and arrested.

Police said officers had been posing as the 14-year-old girl to catch him.

Scott Edgar (bottom left) was surrounded by police officers when he allegedly thought he was meeting a 14-year-old girl

Detectives from the Child Abuse and Sex Crimes Squad's Child Exploitation Internet Unit stopped Edgar outside an apartment block.

Footage of the arrest was obtained by 10 News First.

Edgar, a double amputee, appeared to shake visibly when he was arrested

Police allegedly found Edgar carrying a box of condoms, a size eight skirt, a black top and some coconut oil.

'You've got what appears to be condoms, what were they for,' an officer asked.

As he got up from his wheelchair and placed his hands on the brick wall, Edgar could be seen visibly shaking.

Police will allege Edgar spoke to the undercover officer online and on the phone before organising the hook up.

He was charged with using carriage service to procure a person under the age of 16 for sexual activity and was refused bail.

Edgar, who had both legs amputated due to several blood clots, appeared in his local paper in 2015 under the headline 'Wheelchair Wonder'.

Despite the life-changing experience, he was adamant to not let it get to him and participated in a 12km race in his wheelchair back in March.

'This is my way of running,' he told Maitland Mercury.

'Obviously when you've got two knees as legs it's difficult running but this is my way to get out and run.'

I'm not letting it get me down. I was sick for 20 years and I couldn't do anything.

'Now I'm happy and healthy, I can do things; it's just about getting out there and trying to do life.'