A crowd of angry residents beat a 'drunk' female motorist and burned her car after she mowed down eight people at a Christmas festival in central Mexico on Wednesday night.

Bystanders recorded the frightening moment participants from a Christmas parade scattered after a woman sped down a crowded street in Cuautla, a city in the state of Morelos.

One video shows the driver, identified as Grecia Michelle Valdez Moran by Mexican outlet Informativo Morelos, making a wide left turn at a corner on a main strip in the neighborhood of Gabriel Tepepa after she hit two adults and six children.

None of the victims suffered serious injuries.

Grecia Michelle Valdez Moran, identified by Mexican outlet Informativo Morelos as the driver of a vehicle, sits on a hospital bed after she was beaten by a mob of angry revelers because she allegedly tried to escape

Onlookers and participants at a Christmas festival scattered for safety after the car sped down a street in Morelos, Mexico sending people running

Angry protesters destroyed the vehicle when the driver attempted to flee the scene

Valdez Moran attempted to flee the accident before frustrated revelers blocked her path and assaulted her.

A separate video captured the moment a mob violently shook her car and pelted it with objects before the police came to her rescue.

The crowd then set it on fire.

According to a statement released by the Morels State Basic Institute of Education and Morelos Health Services, some of the children at the parade were treated by paramedics for nervous breakdowns.

A car driven by Grecia Michelle Valdez Moran raced down a street in central Mexico after she allegedly hit eight people

Angry town residents in Morelos, Mexico, attacked a car after its driver allegedly plowed over eight people. None of them were seriously injured

Valdez Moran was taken to a local hospital and treated for her injuries sustained in the beating

The angry mob responded to the driver's attempt at fleeing the accident scene by destroying her car

As a precaution, the parents of a minor identified as Thailly took their child to a local hospital for a routine medical examination. She was reported to be in stable condition.

Concerned parents and friends of the injured students, who participated in the holiday festival organized by two local schools, reportedly showed up en masse at a police station in an attempt to stop the woman from not being processed for the incident.

Valdez Moran was taken to a local hospital and treated for her injuries sustained in the beating.

It is unknown if she has been charged for her role in the incident.

DailyMail.com reached out to the Morelos State Attorney General's Office for comment.