A judge said Ayoola Ajayi, 31, (pictured), can go to trial on charges that he sexually assaulting a woman he met on a dating app in March 2018 at his house

A Utah judge has determined that there is enough evidence for the tech worker accused of killing Utah college student Mackenzie Lueck to go to trial on unrelated charges of alleged kidnapping and sexual abuse of a different woman in 2018.

Ayoola Ajayi, 31, is accused of assaulting a woman - who has not been named - he met on Latter-day Saints dating app, Mutual, in March 2018 at his house.

The unnamed woman who was allegedly sexually assaulted reported the crime to police after Ajayi was charged in June with murder and kidnapping in the death of 23-year-old Lueck, said Salt Lake County District Attorney Sim Gill.

Judge Vernice Trease declared Friday that based on testimony and arguments from attorneys, there was enough evidence to move forward to trial in the case involving the March 2018 incident, the Salt Lake Tribune reported.

Ajayi pleaded not guilty to aggravated kidnapping and three charges of forcible sexual abuse on Friday.

His trial on these charges was set for February 2020.

The unnamed woman involved in the alleged March 2018 incident claimed that the sexual abuse occurred after dinner she and Ajayi were watching television, according to court documents.

He is said to have invited the woman to his home to cook her dinner on March 10, 2018.

It is alleged that he started 'intensely' kissing her and trying to touch her 'inappropriately and forcefully' as they sat on the couch, according to documents seen by The Salt Lake Tribune.

Ajayi is already in jail on charges that he kidnapped and murdered 23-year-old Mackenzie Lueck (pictured) in June 2019

An unnamed woman came forward claiming that she met Ajayi (right in July 2019) on a dating app and that he invited her over to his home for dinner, then sexually assaulted her while they watched TV in March 2018

Ajayi allegedly pinned her down and bit her at least three times, 'causing her significant pain, and left bruising and bite marks,' as she tried to get away from him.

Gill said the woman came to law enforcement with the allegations after Lueck’s death. He claimed that the time lapse was 'understandable because many victims of sexual trauma don’t always disclose.'

The unnamed woman and Ajayi were said to have met through the Latter-day Saints dating app, Mutual

He declined to say if police have heard from other alleged victims, but added that the investigation remains ongoing.

Gill was reported by the Salt Lake Tribune as saying: 'All I can say is that, for us, this continues to be an open and active investigation. I’m not necessarily talking specifically about this case [filed Tuesday], but in general.

'If there is anybody out there who’s a victim of a crime or intimidation, they should recognize there are resources available to them and to reach out to their local law enforcement to communicate those concerns. They’re not alone.'

Ajayi currently remains in jail after being previously charged with murder and kidnapping in the June 2019 death of Lueck. He has not yet entered pleas to those counts.

Lueck disappeared shortly after she returned from a trip to her California hometown for the funeral of her grandmother and took a Lyft from the airport to a park.

Ajayi (during his arrest in June) remains in jail after being previously charged with murder and kidnapping in the death of Lueck

Police charged Ajayi with her murder after some of her remains and belongings were found buried in his backyard (his home is pictured). Police have not revealed what the items are

Lueck was a member of the Alpha Chi Omega sorority and a part-time senior at the University of Utah studying kinesiology and pre-nursing

She exchanged text messages with Ajayi and met him at the park, apparently willingly, but her phone was turned off a minute after the final text and wasn't turned back on, prosecutors have said.

Police have said Lueck was last seen getting into Ajayi's car on June 17. She was reported missing three days later.

Lueck's body was recovered from Logan Canyon, 85 miles north of Salt Lake City in August. Her body was found with her arms bound behind her, according to police.

She died from blunt force trauma to the head. Police charged Ajayi with her murder after some of her remains and belongings were found buried in his backyard. Police have not revealed what those items are.

Police and prosecutors have not said how Ajayi, (pictured), and Lueck were connected or disclosed a motive for the killing.

Police and prosecutors have not said how Ajayi and Lueck were connected, but court documents show that investigators searched social media and dating sites while trying to find a link between them.

Ajayi was charged with aggravated murder, obstruction of justice, aggravated kidnapping and abuse or desecration of a human body in connection with Lueck’s death.

Investigators searched social media and dating sites while trying to find a link between Lueck and Ajayi, including one called Seeking Arrangement, which bills itself as a way for wealthy 'sugar daddies' to meet women known as 'sugar babies'.

The documents don't detail what evidence might have been found. Prosecutors have declined to discuss the findings.

Ajayi is an information technology worker who had stints with high-profile companies and was briefly in the Army National Guard.

Ajayi has also been charged with 19 counts of sexual exploitation of a minor after investigators discovered child pornography on his computer

Investigators have said they are investigating a report from a construction contractor who said Ajayi approached him in April about building a secretive and soundproof room in his home.

Lueck has been remembered as a bubbly, nurturing person who loved spending time with her family and looked forward to a career in medicine or health care.

A California native, Lueck was a member of the Alpha Chi Omega sorority and a part-time senior at the University of Utah studying kinesiology and pre-nursing.

She was expected to graduate in spring 2020.

In early August, Ajayi was also charged with 19 counts of sexual exploitation of a minor after investigators discovered child pornography on his computer.

Ajayi had images of children as young as four years old, prosecutors said in charging documents. He has not yet entered pleas to those charges.

They had taken the computer as part of the investigation into the death of Mackenzie Lueck.

The Salt Lake Legal Defenders Association, which has been assigned to represent Ajayi, said it does not plan to make any comments on the charges.

Ajayi is an information technology worker who had stints with high-profile companies and was briefly in the Army National Guard.