The ongoing battle for control of Sheffield United is hindering attempts to tie manager Chris Wilder and key players such as John Lundstram to new contracts.

The Blades want to reward Wilder for their outstanding start to life in the Premier League, as well as ward off interest from West Ham, but uncertainty over the club's ownership has left them struggling to commit.

Prince Abdullah bin Mosaad bin Abdulaziz was awarded control of the club in the High Court last summer, but former chairman Kevin McCabe has taken his case to the Court of Appeal, who are yet to rule on whether they will hear it.

Prince Abdullah bin Mosaad bin Abdulaziz and Kevin McCabe are in legal fight at Sheffield Utd

Any appeal would not take place until next summer and, with Prince Abdullah having limited funds, the club are in limbo.

The situation with Lundstram is urgent, because his contract expires in the summer.

CHINA SEE INFLUENCE GROW AMID OZIL CRITICISM

Mesut Ozil is not the only footballer who has encountered difficulties with China as the country grows increasingly influential in the sport.

A number of leading commercial companies and agents have had contracts unilaterally cancelled, leaving their players without endorsement deals in the region at short notice.

Mesut Ozil spoke out against China and several companies have faced challenges in region

TWIST TO VILLA FAIR PLAY SAGA

The Premier League are considering following the EFL by introducing fixed points deductions for clubs that breach financial fair play regulations.

Aston Villa are in danger of becoming the first club to be charged for exceeding the spending cap, as revealed by Sportsmail this week, but with no sanctions available at present, they could keep spending in a bid to avoid relegation and hope that even if found guilty they would be punished by a fine next season.

Top-flight clubs are pushing for more clarity on how the Premier League intend to enforce their regulations in the belief it would provide a greater deterrent to overspending.

The EFL have brought in fixed tariffs of between three and 12 points, depending on the level of overspending, as well as the right to impose a further nine-point penalty for an aggravated breach.

Dean Smith's Aston Villa are facing potential problems over breaching Financial Fair Play

TROTTERS RISK PROBLEMS AS DEBTS MOUNT

Bolton Wanderers are facing further financial problems with new owners Football Ventures yet to pay bills and fees of more than £1million from the club's period in administration last summer.

The League One strugglers were in danger of following Bury out of the League in August, with the EFL giving them a 14-day deadline to complete a takeover, which led to joint-administrator Paul Appleton concluding a deal with Football Ventures.

The consortium have invested in the squad and safeguarded jobs, but are yet to settle debts.

Despite saving the club and paying wages, Football Ventures have not cleared Bolton's debts

EFL HAPPY TO STICK WITH CARABAO CUP DATES DESPITE LIVERPOOL CLASH

The EFL have no plans to change the date of next season's Carabao Cup quarter-finals in light of Liverpool's two matches in less than 24 hours this week, despite the potential for another clash with the Club World Cup.

Next season's dates have been provisionally agreed, and while the EFL could ask the Premier League to switch with their midweek December fixtures as one cancellation would be less disruptive for the League programme, that is not an avenue they are going to pursue.

The EFL want to avoid a repeat of Liverpool's back-to-back matches and will support postponing until January if the Club World Cup finalists reach the last eight of the Carabao Cup again. Jurgen Klopp rejected that solution this year.

Liverpool suffered a 5-0 Caraba Cup defeat by Aston Villa after fielding a weakened team

SHAUN HARVEY HEADS RACE FOR PFA ROLE

Former Football League chief executive Shaun Harvey and League Managers Association boss Richard Bevan are seen as leading candidates to succeed Gordon Taylor, who is expected to stand down next summer after 39 years in charge of the Professional Footballers' Association.

A number of ex-players are also interested, but the PFA are likely to seek an external appointment and will begin recruitment formally in the new year. Taylor's departure date will follow the conclusion of a Charity Commission inquiry into the union's funding.