Fabulously festive, totally indulgent... and meat-free. Spoil your vegan guests – and the rest – with irresistible dishes from Rose Elliott.

If you're looking for a main course for a special dinner, I don't think you can beat this. It looks and tastes wonderful and is easy to make

If you're looking for a main course for a special dinner, I don't think you can beat this. It looks and tastes wonderful and is easy to make.

Serves 6

1tbsp olive oil

1 onion, chopped

200g (7oz) button mushrooms, sliced

1 garlic clove, crushed

200g (7oz) cashews

100g (3½oz) fresh white bread

1tsp dried tarragon

2tbsp soy sauce

1tsp Marmite (or other yeast extract)

1tbsp freshly squeezed lemon juice

Salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste

250g (9oz) ready-rolled puff pastry

Soya milk, for brushing

Method

Preheat the oven to 200°C/fan 180°C/gas 6. Heat the oil in a pan on a low-medium heat, add the onion and fry for 10 minutes. Add the mushrooms and garlic and cook, stirring, for 5 minutes. Remove from the heat.

Put the cashews and bread in a food processor and process to fine crumbs, then add the onion and mushroom mixture, tarragon, soy sauce, yeast extract and lemon juice and process until smooth. Season to taste.

Spread the puff pastry sheet out on the work surface, with the shorter edges at the sides.

Place the nut mixture in a rectangle down the centre of the pastry (about 8cm wide), leaving 2cm clear at the top and bottom edges.

With a sharp knife, make diagonal cuts in the side pieces of pastry, starting from the top left corner and cutting towards the filling at a 45-degree angle, making each strip about 1cm (½in) wide.

Repeat on the other side, starting at the top right corner, cutting down towards the filling.

Enclose the filling with the pastry strips: fold the end pieces in first, then alternately fold over diagonal strips from each side to create a plaited effect – this is much easier than it sounds. Brush the pastry with soya milk.

Transfer to a baking sheet and bake for 45-60 minutes, until puffed, crisp and golden.

Rose Elliott’s Complete Vegan is published by Nourish Books, £25. © Rose Elliott 2019. To order a copy for £20 call 01603 648155 or go to mailshop.co.uk. P&P free. Offer valid until 28/12/19.