He's still known to many as geeky fantasist Gareth from The Office.

But anyone who's seen Mackenzie Crook's series Detectorists, about a metal detecting club in the countryside, will know his heart lies in a gentler sort of comedy.

So when he was approached to create a new version of Worzel Gummidge, the talking scarecrow made famous by Jon Pertwee on BBC1 in the late 70s, he took inspiration from the natural world around him.

When Mackenzie Crook was approached to create a new version of Worzel Gummidge, he took inspiration from the natural world. Pictured left, with Michael Palin as the Green Man

'I have a robin in my garden called Winter George that I tamed three years ago,' he says.

'I call him and he comes. If I'm not there at the back door, he'll come into the house and find me. I've had him sitting on my shoulder while I'm cooking.

'He disappeared for three months last year and I was bereft, then he turned up bedraggled, looking like he'd had a fight, and now I appreciate him every day.

'When I was asked to do Worzel Gummidge I read the books, and the first page says he has this tame robin. I thought, "Oh, so do I... it's a sign!"

Mackenzie directed in character as Worzel – with a prosthetic turnip for a head, pictured

Among the star-studded cast is Zoe Wanamaker (pictured) as Lady Bloomsbury Barton

At first he was reluctant to take on the job, but once he realised he could update the story with an environmental message he said yes.

In the two-part series, which Mackenzie also directed, the harvest doesn't arrive, and it's up to Worzel and his two new friends – children John and Susan – to find out why.

Among the cast are Sir Michael Palin as the mystical Green Man and Zoe Wanamaker as Lady Bloomsbury Barton.

In the two-part series, which Mackenzie also directed, the harvest doesn't arrive, and it's up to Worzel and his two new friends – children John and Susan (pictured) – to find out why

What Zoe hadn't counted on was being directed by Mackenzie in character as Worzel – with a prosthetic turnip for a head!

'He spent hours in make-up,' says Zoe. 'He's a glutton for punishment, that boy. But being directed by him as Worzel was a very funny experience.'

Worzel Gummidge, Boxing Day, 6.20pm, 27 December, 7pm, BBC1.