You might think it would take a brave soul to tackle an adaptation of Judith Kerr's much-loved classic of children's literature The Tiger Who Came To Tea.

Devoted 'Tiger' fans need not worry, though, as a new TV adaptation to be shown on Christmas Eve has been made by Lupus Films, who also brought the acclaimed animated version of children's story We're Going On A Bear Hunt to Channel 4 in 2016.

Just as they did then, they have remained enchantingly true to Judith's book, the tale of a charming tiger who drops in unexpectedly on a young girl named Sophie and her family one teatime and promptly devours all the food and drink in the house.

And they've recruited an all-star cast including Benedict Cumberbatch to voice Sophie's father, Tamsin Greig as her mother and David Oyelowo as the voice of the tiger.

A new TV adaptation of Judith Kerr's much-loved classic of children's literature The Tiger Who Came To Tea (pictured) is to be shown on Christmas Eve

David Walliams – himself no stranger to children's literature – is the narrator and newcomer Clara Ross takes the role of Sophie.

It's an A-list offering, and what's more they all jumped at the chance to take part, according to Ruth Fielding, one of the co-founders of Lupus Films.

'They all said yes straight away,' she says. 'They all loved the book and read it to their kids, so we went for the best and we got the best and it was an absolute joy to work with them all.'

Judith was inspired to write and illustrate the book after inventing the tale to entertain her then two-year- old daughter Tacy, who loved it so much she would dismiss all other stories by asking her mother to 'Talk the tiger'.

Judith went on to see her creation become a publishing phenomenon, translated into several languages. And while she sadly died earlier this year at the age of 95, she lived long enough to not just approve but oversee production of this animated version.

She rubber-stamped everything, from the cast to the lyrics for an original song written especially for the production by award-winning composer David Arnold.

Robbie Williams (left) - who, as it turns out, is another big fan of Judith Kerr's work - sings the tiger's centrepiece song and newcomer Clara Ross (pictured right) takes the role of Sophie

David Walliams (pictured) – himself no stranger to children's literature – is the narrator in the new TV adaptation

'She was consulted right from the very beginning,' says Ruth.

'She was involved in the script, she saw the designs, she was involved in choosing the cast and the lyrics to the song. We weren't worried that we'd do a bad job because we had Judith's help and we knew she was across the whole process. She knew what she wanted, there's no doubt about that.'

The tiger just walks in, he's so cheeky but charming

A stickler for detail, Judith even suggested lyric changes for Hey Tiger, the catchy, swing-inspired song that proves the centrepiece of the production.

Indeed, she had some 'really super-sharp notes' about the lyrics, says David, including changing a line she thought didn't fit with the prevailing British feel of the story.

'There's a line in it that originally was something like, 'They can choose some onion from the hotdog stand', and she said that sounded very American and it's not American, it should be British,' he reveals.

'So it became, 'Choose an ice cream from the ice cream van.' Judith also had thoughts about the sentiments of the chorus.

Judith Kerr rubber-stamped everything, from the cast to the lyrics for an original song written especially for the production by award-winning composer David Arnold. Pictured, a still

'The original chorus was slightly more ephemeral, it was about making the most of your day, don't let the chance go past when something happens,' recalls David.

'And she said she didn't think that children would understand that.'

It sounds typical of the down-to- earth author, who rejected various attempts over the years to project all manner of meanings onto the tiger's sudden arrival – including suggestions that he represents her memory of the Nazi threat to her childhood home in Berlin.

The story was, Judith always vehemently insisted, simply about a tiger coming to tea. Today, the film's director Robin Shaw agrees with Judith's prosaic take.

'The tiger's enough of a character that there's no need to try and read anything else into him,' he says.

'He turns up, he just walks in, he's so cheeky, but charming. He's one of those types who can just get anything they want without even actually asking for it, or trying hard for it. And that's enough; you don't have to put deeper meaning into it as well.'

A little ginger cat is also seen making mischief in the film, which will be fun for the family

David Arnold, meanwhile, had the tiger's 'cheeky and charming' characteristics at the back of his mind when it came to deciding who should sing his centrepiece song.

Step forward Robbie Williams – who, as it turns out, is another big fan of Judith Kerr's work. David had him in mind from the beginning, not just because of his penchant for swing music but for his showbiz swagger too.

'I remember thinking, to a certain extent, that if you did a live-action movie of this and someone knocked on the door and when you opened the door Robbie Williams came in and cleaned your house out of food, you'd probably be thinking, "That makes sense", because of the sheer size of his personality,' he laughs.

His opportunity to bag Robbie came when he attended a film screening with David Walliams, only for Robbie to walk in.

After establishing that Robbie had read the book to his three children 'about a thousand times', David Arnold told him they were making a film version of it.

The logistics of putting this half-hour of animated magic together were more complicated, a Herculean, year-long task of amazing technical intricacy

'I said, "I've got this song and I want someone to sing it. What do you think?" I had it on my phone so I played it to him, and he just held it up to his ear and said, "I'll do it." And that was that!'

The logistics of putting this half-hour of animated magic together were more complicated, a Herculean, year-long task of amazing technical intricacy.

'It's all hand-coloured, frame by frame,' says Robin Shaw. 'I didn't want loads of post-production done on it, so when the animation was done, it was handed to a team of colourists to complete each frame on its own.

'We worked out that if one person was doing it, in a sort of average working week it would have taken 22 and a half years!'

The Tiger Who Came To Tea, Christmas Eve, 7.30pm, Channel 4.