A speed camera 'hero' spent hours standing on the side of the road on a scorching hot day in Adelaide warning drivers about an upcoming mobile speed camera.

Images were posted on social media showing the man at Mawson Lake, in the city's north, brandishing a large sign reading: 'Mobile speed camera ahead.'

He was seen giving the thumbs up to passing drivers, with a collection of drinks in the shade behind him.

While the man likely saved drivers from hefty fines, South Australia does not enforce strict double demerit penalties over the Christmas period.

Commentators have been divided with the man's gesture, with some celebrating him as a 'hero'.

A man was captured on the side of the road in Mawson Lake in northern Adelaide warning drivers of an upcoming mobile speed camera

'This man deserves man of the year award,' one comment reads.

'Guy deserves a beer! Especially being out in the heat,' another post says.

Others noted that breaking the road rules can have devastating consequences and should not be a joke.

'Why can't people just do the speed limit?' one comment reads.

'It could be the difference between you spending Christmas with your family or in a wooden box.'

'Why do people celebrate this?' another post reads. 'Don't use your phone while driving maybe... then you wouldn't need this warning.'

Around 25,000 people are caught by mobile speed cameras each year, with the man's actions divided comments, some labeling him a hero, and others noting that breaking the road rules in any way is not a joke

There have been 666 serious road accidents in South Australia so far in 2019 with 106 fatalities, which is 26 more than in 2018.

Around 25,000 people are caught by mobile speed cameras every year.

South Australian Police Minister Corey Wingard urged drivers to be safe and aware behind the wheel through the Christmas period.

'As we head into the holiday period, I want to issue a personal plea to South Australia: Please stay safe, don't make stupid choices, don't rush and don't become distracted,' Mr Wingard said.

'Think about the people you'll leave behind.'