A former club doctor at Bury who has been charged with a doping violation by the Football Association has said he is 'ashamed of his actions'.

Dr Andrew Johnson was also working for Manchester City at the time of the incident but has not since the club became aware of the case.

He was charged by the FA in October with providing fraudulent information regarding an application for a therapeutic use exemption (TUE) for a Bury player on December 1, 2018.

A former Manchester City doctor has been charged by the FA with breaching anti-doping rules

Dr Johnson claims it was 'an isolated incident' and, in quotes reported by the BBC, he said: 'My administration process at Bury failed me in that I did not make the TUE application at the time I should have.

'I was then dishonest in retrospectively making an application to cover up my failings. I would like to make it clear, to reassure the FA and the public, that there was no wrongdoing by the player or Bury.

'While I have acted as a club doctor at Manchester City, the charge against me relates only to an isolated incident which occurred in the course of my working at Bury.'

Dr Andrew Johnson worked for Bury at time of the offence over therapeutic use exemption

If found guilty by the FA, he could face a suspension of up to four years.

He added: 'There is currently a Football Association anti-doping investigation and a fitness to practise investigation by the General Medical Council (GMC) and I would like to stress that I am fully co-operating with both inquiries.

'I am making full admissions in relation to the charges. I am also undertaking a complete remediation process, having self-reported to the GMC.

'I am ashamed of my actions and I apologise to the player and his family, Bury, the FA, UK Anti-Doping, the football and sporting fraternity, the public, my employers (including Manchester City), and finally my friends and family. I have let you all down.

'I wish to emphasise that I did not diagnose the player in question, nor did I prescribe the medication in question (Testogel). I was responsible only for completing the TUE paperwork on behalf of the player.'