Here we are again. Another year, another fun-filled time of intense high drama. No one in Soapland is running around, desperately seeking sprouts that they wouldn't eat the rest of the year.

No one is making Delia Smith's pork and sage stuffing, much less steaming a home-made pudding. No one has stocked up on wine or done a big shop for the kids. Most weird of all – no one is watching soap on the telly!

At least Emmerdale's chef Marlon makes a bit of an effort when he arrives at Home Farm to cook for Kim and the family.

Don't bother, Marlon; no one will get to eat it. They never do. Incredibly, in EastEnders, the Slaters get three invitations for dinner, shattering their plans to have the best Christmas ever.

I wouldn't want to share so much as a turkey wing with any of them, so their sudden popularity might well go down in history as another Christmas miracle.

Corrie's costume department will doubtless wheel out another array of Santa-style sweaters, and the sweet sherry will stay on the Rovers' shelf where it's been since Emily Bishop departed. Eat, drink and be merry, viewers!

CORONATION STREET: SHARK UNDER FIRE

You can guess the rest. Shots are fired when he confronts Gary in the Rovers (pictured), then there's a chase through Winter Wonderland

How long will it be this time before Maria is forced to utter the phrase that's dogged her entire life – 'I'm so shtoopid, me'?

HONEYMOON'S OVER 'So I've decided we need a new dining table.' Maria to Gary, Corrie

All the signs have been there with loan shark Gary, though she hasn't seen them, and Gary's Christmas gift to Derek is to tie him up and lock him in the furniture shop overnight.

Well, I say 'furniture' loosely because there's also an antique gun, still loaded, that goes missing along with Derek.

You can guess the rest. Shots are fired when he confronts Gary in the Rovers, then there's a chase through Winter Wonderland, but will anyone be having cold turkey and pickles with the Grim Reaper come Boxing Day?

Michelle goes out in style, smashing up the Bistro when she discovers she has unknowingly sold it to Ray the Groper.

Don't expect Cluedo to go well, either, when Fiz and family sit down to play (they might have to invent a new killer category: Hope, in the Factory, with the Incendiary Device).

Emma might be heading for heartache when Alina turns up looking for Seb.

Will his head be turned, or will someone manage to drum into that lovely head of hair that she's duller than sleigh bells in July?

EASTENDERS: THE TROOF IS AHT!

Don't expect the Christmas Day argument to be about who ate all the purple ones from the Quality Street tin; it's all Sharon, Phil and Keanu (pictured), as Phil plots how to get revenge

Now look, Phil, listen to your Auntie Jaci. You've never been a saint. You slept with your brother's wife behind his back, you ravished Mel in the kitchen (I've never been able to enjoy mealtimes in Walford since; nobody ever wipes their surfaces), and your behaviour as a father is questionable. OK, you're no King Herod but you're no Mufasa either.

As I predicted, Sharon's pregnancy has been a slow-burner and, sure enough, here comes the climax as Phil gets closer to the troof of his not being the father.

LONER OF THE WEEK 'I didn't have many friends – not even imaginary ones.' Roy to Nina, about childhood, Corrie

Don't expect the Christmas Day argument to be about who ate all the purple ones from the Quality Street tin; it's all Sharon, Phil and Keanu, as Phil plots how to get revenge.

We can safely say Boxing Day will be exactly that, as more than one family takes a hammering – it wouldn't be an East End Christmas if the only thing being ripped apart was wrapping paper.

Linda's drinking gets even more out of control (I'm with her; how else can you make it through a Walford Christmas?) and Mick takes action by pouring her alcohol down the sink on Christmas Eve.

Mick, you run a pub! I think Linda will be able to work out how to get her hands on more.

Whadderyerknow, she's soon drinking alone in the Square, where she falls asleep, unaware Mick has arranged a Christmas surprise. Unfortunately for her, it's not divorce papers.

EMMERDALE: MEAN SPIRIT

It's great to have actress Claire King in the show, but even Dr Frankenstein would have struggled finding the ingredients to make Kim Tate (pictured, with son Jamie)

Goodness knows what they lace the water with in the Dales, but it turns women into monsters (or maybe it's the gallons of Yorkshire Tea?).

It's great to have actress Claire King in the show, but even Dr Frankenstein would have struggled finding the ingredients to make Kim Tate.

On Christmas Day, after receiving a present from Graham addressed to Millie, she sets off with evil intent to tell him she knows about the DNA test.

As for dinner, when Graham bursts in (something of a feat for a man normally as lively as a corpse on Mogadon), who has most to fear from his antics?