A yellow Labrador left seriously injured when he was hit by a car has been separated from his brother who stayed loyally by his side in the aftermath of the accident.

The yellow Lab, Brennan, was struck by the vehicle in Dade City, Florida on December 4.

But while the driver quickly sped off, Brennan's brother, a chocolate lab named Dale, waited with him until help arrived - a generous act that one canine expert says is incredibly rare.

'It's extraordinary,' Mac Steinmeyer, a volunteer at Maxx and Me Rescue, told ABC Action News.

'I know that there are spotted dogs that will not leave one another, we deal with that quite often. But in this situation the dog [Dale] stayed with him because of his injury.'

Sadly, the canine companions were separated after the incident when their owner, who has not been publicly named, decided he could no longer care for Brennan.

A yellow Labrador named Brennan (left) was seriously injured when he was hit by a car has been separated from his brother, Dale (right) who stayed loyally by his side in the aftermath of the accident

On Wednesday, Brennan underwent the surgery to rebuild all the soft tissue and ligaments in his knee

The pooch was left with serious injuries, and one vet stated that he might have to be put down.

However, Steinmeyer and the rest of the Maxx and Me Rescure team believed Brennan would be able to make it through, and they worked to raise money to fund the serious surgery for him.

'Every tendon, every ligament was ripped so his patella is just floating in there and it's got to be pretty painful,' Steinmeyer said of the canine's injuries.

On Wednesday, Brennan underwent the surgery to rebuild all the soft tissue and ligaments in his knee.

Maxx and Me Rescue shared a series of adorable images of the pooch in a harness, accompanied by the caption: 'What a long day for our Brennan Boy. Today confirmed what we knew to be true: Brennan is a fighter'

Maxx and Me Rescue shared a series of adorable images of the pooch in a harness

The organization went on to explain that the surgery took hours, but that it was successful and that Brennan is 'on the road to recovery'

The organization went on to explain that the surgery took hours, but that it was successful and that Brennan is 'on the road to recovery'.

'Being 100 pounds and obviously needing the knee to stand and walk and function, Brennan is sure to have long road to healing and even some ups and downs along the way. But the team behind this brave boy is confident that he is capable of living a long, happy, high quality of life after this. It’s all we wanted for him.'

The pooch now faces three weeks of rest and rehab - and it's unclear whether he will formally adopted in by Steinmeyer or whether he will ever see his chocolate Lab brother, Dale, again.

However, Maxx and Me Rescue thanked those who donated to help make Brennan's surgery possible.

'It takes a village to care for these babies... Our bank account survives another day because you made it so. It is with you we celebrate Brennan’s life.'

They added: 'He is ours. He matters to all of us.'