Justin Timberlake looked to be in a great mood on Friday as he was seen leaving a business meeting in Beverly Hills.

It was the first time the actor, 38, was seen in the Golden State since publicly apologizing to wife Jessica Biel via Instagram.

He said he had a 'strong lapse in judgment' when he was caught holding hands with his Palmer costar Alisha Wainwright in New Orleans, Louisiana last month.

All smiles: Justin Timberlake looked to be in a great mood on Friday as he was seen back in LA for the first time since his cheating scandal in New Orleans

But on Friday, JT had a big smile on his face as he left an appointment and headed back to his car, even taking time to acknowledge and point at photographers by way of a greeting.

The star wore a grey zip-up jacket with patterned piping, along with denim jeans ripped at the knees.

He had on reflective sunshades and sported a beard and short haircut.

Timberlake donned tan work boots, and he was holding a pinkish gift box wrapped with red ribbon as he headed towards his car — perhaps an early 'I'm sorry' Christmas gift for Biel.

Can't stop the feeling: It was the first time the actor was seen in Los Angeles since publicly apologizing to wife Jessica Biel via Instagram for his 'strong lapse in judgment'

I see you: On Friday, JT had a big smile on his face as he left an appointment and headed back to his car, even taking time to acknowledge and point at photographers by way of a greeting

Justin made headlines in recent weeks after being photographed holding his costar Wainwright's hand on a balcony during a drunken night out in New Orleans, where they are shooting the film Palmer.

And while he responded to the incident by publicly apologizing to his wife of seven years, saying 'I should have known better,' Jessica, 37, reportedly 'hasn’t fully forgiven him and isn’t letting him off easy,' according to an insider who spoke to Us Weekly.

In the interim, Biel flew to the set in New Orleans, while Wainwright traveled to Los Angeles — but refused to acknowledge or answer questions about the dalliance to reporters.

Who's it for: Timberlake was holding a pinkish gift box wrapped with red ribbon as he headed towards his car — perhaps an early 'I'm sorry' Christmas gift for Biel

The costar in question: Justin made headlines in recent weeks after being photographed holding his costar Alisha Wainwright's hand; Alisha seen here arriving in LA last week

Timberlake and Waintwright play onscreen love interests in the dramatic film Palmer, about an ex-convict who forms a friendship with a troubled young boy.

The film also stars Maleficent's Juno Temple and June Squibb of the film Nebraska.

Justin and Jessica have been married since 2012, and share a four-year-old son together, Silas Randall.