Mike 'The Situation' Sorrentino and wife Lauren revealed on Monday that they had recently suffered from a miscarriage at seven weeks along.

But the Jersey Shore alum doesn't plan on abandoning his quest for a family any time soon.

'Me and my wife are definitely trying to expand our family' Sorrentino revealed to Us Weekly.

Still trying: Mike 'The Situation' Sorrentino told Us Weekly on Thursday that he and his wife, Lauren are 'definitely still trying' to expand their family even in the wake of their tragic miscarriage

The 37-year-old reality star attended La La Anthony Presents: Winter Wonderland on Thursday evening in The Bronx, NY, an event held to benefit Girls Inc. and the Police Athletic League at Gaucho's Gym.

Sorrentino arrived in a fitted, blue athletic tee paired with a pair of black, stone-washed denim jeans and some colorful kicks. While posing for the shutterbugs he flashed his signature muscles.

But, even with all the posing and smiles, the muscle man was ready to speak seriously about the next steps for him and wife, Lauren.

Still trying: Despite their recent fertility issues Mike told Us Weekly 'Me and my wife are definitely trying to expand our family.' Mike and Lauren Sorrentino attend the 2018 MTV VMAs in New York above

Muscle Man: The Jersey Shore alum flashed his signature muscles for the cameras at the star studded event

Sorrentino expressed that the pair are 'definitely' still trying to make their family a reality, even though the wounds of their recent miscarriage still haven't fully healed.

The pair announced news of their miscarriage on Strahan, Sara and Keke and revealed they had conceived on the night her had been released from federal prison.

'The night he came home [from prison] we actually conceived,' Lauren admitted.

Tragic news: Mike 'the Situation' Sorrentino and his wife Lauren revealed on Monday that they had suffered a miscarriage

'And then at about six and half, seven weeks, I miscarried. It was heart-wrenching.'

Lauren said that when she first fell pregnant, she felt as though everything was finally falling into place and a new chapter beginning following their legal woes.

'When I found out we were pregnant, I felt like this is why we went through all these challenges for years and that this was our time and it was our blessing. … It was hard. It was really difficult.'

Lauren told the ABC show that she decided to be open with the tragic news in the hope she can help someone else out there who's also suffering.

Catching up: The couple appeared on the ABC show to speak about their lives post prison

Meant to be: 'When I found out we were pregnant, I felt like this is why we went through all these challenges for years and that this was our time and it was our blessing. … It was hard. It was really difficult'

Opening up: Lauren told the ABC show that she decided to be open with the tragic news in the hope she can help someone else out there who's also suffering

Warm welcome: The pair were greeted by fans on Monday when they arrived in New York City

'I didn't want to hold this in,' she said.

'I wanted to share it for other people going through it and just be honest so I can kind of heal through the process.'

Host Sara Haines was quick to thank Lauren for opening up and deciding to go public with the story.

'I think what you're doing is so important,' she said.

She added: 'Good things will come, but it helps to have someone say in your darkest time, don't worry you're not alone and somebody is hearing that today.'

Wanting fans to watch: Mike and Lauren promoted their appearance on social media

He's back! Mike returned home to his new wife in mid-September. Lauren shared a post at the time: 'The house don't fall when the bones are good. Welcome home honey,' she captioned, using Maren Morris lyrics

Baby: One month later, when the beauty would have been pregnant, they headed to Vegas where the reality star was seen posing with his hand on Lauren's belly

Mike returned home to his new wife in mid-September.

Lauren shared a post at the time: 'The house don't fall when the bones are good. Welcome home honey,' she captioned, using Maren Morris lyrics.

One month later, when the beauty would have been pregnant, they headed to Vegas where the reality star was seen posing with his hand on Lauren's belly.

November 1 marked the pair's first wedding anniversary.