She attended the MDL Beast Festival in Saudi Arabia on Saturday.

And Irina Shayk jetted into New York City on Sunday as she made a low-key arrival at JFK Airport.

The supermodel, 33, cut a casual figure in a pair of white high-waisted trousers with a matching coloured top as she made a phonecall.

Low-key arrival: Irina Shayk jetted into New York City on Sunday as she made a low-key arrival at JFK Airport

Irina layered the items of clothing with a black hoodie, which she wore up, and an oversized padded PVC coat.

Trying to keep a low profile, the model finished her ensemble with a pair of biker boots, oversized brown sunglasses and an oversized handbag.

It comes after Irina made a bold statement in white denim co-ords on Saturday as she attended the MDL Beast Festival in Saudi Arabia.

The model, 33, looked sensational in the funky jacket and matching jeans as she attended the electronic dance showcase.

Casual: The supermodel, 33, cut a casual figure in a pair of white high-waisted trousers with a matching coloured top as she made a phonecall

Fun: It comes after Irina made a bold statement in white denim co-ords on Saturday as she attended the MDL Beast Festival in Saudi Arabia

Irina opted for a low-key white denim jacket over a cropped black T-shirt that was tucked into her matching skinny jeans.

The brunette beauty teamed the look with chunky black boots, and added another twist with narrow black sunglasses.

Irina also took to Instagram to share a snap of her look alongside pal Stella Maxwell, as the pair marked their last day at the festival.

The music bash features five stages and plays hours of non-stop electronic music from a host of DJs and musicians.

Funky: The model, 33, looked sensational in the funky jacket and matching jeans as she attended the electronic dance showcase

Meanwhile, the fashion star and her former partner, actor Bradley Cooper, 44, share 50/50 custody of their two-year-old daughter Lea - following their split over the summer.

The very private couple called time on their relationship in June after four years together.

A source close to the couple told People at the time: 'Bradley was emotionally absent during the long time filming A Star Is Born. They tried to save the relationship but it had changed.'

Best friends: Irina also took to Instagram to share a snap of her look alongside pal Stella Maxwell, as the pair marked their last day at the festival

There were rumours at the time he and co-star Lady Gaga had a romance blossoming in real life, following their intimate performance of Grammy and Oscar winning song, Shallow, at the Academy Awards - something they have both denied.

Rumours resurfaced once again in recent times when Life & Style reported that the singer thought Bradley was 'the one.'

The family has settled into a new normal since the couple split earlier this year, with both parents now residing in NYC, after living together in LA.