Andy Carroll has a confession to make. He takes us back to the helicopter ride between Newcastle and Liverpool on January 31, 2011 and the hours before completing his British record £35million transfer.

'Do you know what,' he begins, 'I was injured at the time, and all I'm thinking is, "Please, just fail the medical".'

This is not, he stresses, a reflection on Liverpool, it could have been any club.

'The minute I got on that helicopter I wanted to come back. I knew it had to happen. Whatever age, I needed to walk back on that pitch and play for Newcastle again.

Andy Carroll always felt as though he would one day make a return to his boyhood club

The striker said goodbye to Newcastle United in a £35million move to Liverpool in 2011

'I remember leaving here (Newcastle's training ground) in Kevin Nolan's car because loads of people were outside. We went to his house and watched it on TV. I was like, "I'm not going". I'd just bought a house, and a cat the day before!

'But then I was told, "You're going", and that was that.'

Newcastle owner Mike Ashley had 35million reasons to tell the hometown hero he was off.

'Listen, I would have rather stayed at the time and all the way to the helicopter I'm thinking, "What is happening? What am I doing?". But looking back, and how it shaped me as a player and a person, I would honestly still do it. I probably needed to get out of the city to grow up.'

As a person, OK. But as a player? Sportsmail disagrees. Carroll in a Newcastle shirt was a superhero — a ponytailed, hair-raising menace who would bust noses and nets. 'It feels good to hear that,' he says. 'It's why I didn't want to go. Up here, I always felt good about myself playing. Now I'm back, I have that same feeling.'

Does he know how many goals he scored in 2010? 'Twenty?'. It was 26. He hasn't hit double figures in a calendar year since.

He made his England debut, the first of nine caps and two goals. A quick aside, is that a point of pride or regret? 'No regret. If it wasn't for injuries maybe I'd still be there. A lot of good players don't get any caps.

'But yeah, it was the best year of my career, injury-free. It was one year though. I never saw the last 10 years going the way they have — I wanted to achieve more, play more, score more. That's why I've still got a lot more to give. I'm not a stupid young lad any more. If the injuries stay away then I believe in myself.

It was a move the 30-year-old was reluctant to make, but he was forced out of the door

A seven-year stint at West Ham followed before making a triumphant return to Tyneside

The Newcastle striker sat down with Sportsmail's Craig Hope (right) for an exclusive interview

'I'm only 30, let's do another interview in five years' time. I'll still be playing here, that's what drives me.

'This isn't a one-year thing, I want a new deal.'

The Andy Carroll who sits before us now is alive. There is energy in both body and soul. He has just played his first full game since rejoining Newcastle in August and captained the club for the first time at Burnley last weekend.

But to demonstrate his newfound contentment, he feels the need to reveal the torment of his final months at West Ham, where he spent seven years before being released in the summer. Carroll has four children — 'my little mates' — and is engaged to The Only Way Is Essex star Billi Mucklow. He is a multi-millionaire. But deprived of football following a series of botched ankle operations, he struggled to take satisfaction from a life many on the outside would presume guarantees happiness.

'I was in a dark place. It was hard to snap out of and it wasn't until I was on the A1 driving back up here that I was like, "This is it, I can start enjoying life again".

'Even my mam and dad were always up and down to London because they were worried. I had good times at West Ham but I needed to get out, it had gone stale. The minute I woke up I didn't want to speak to anyone. I was so angry with myself, my ankle, at not playing.

The Englishman has proved a revitalised figure for Steve Bruce's side and is winning plaudits

'When I went out people wanted to talk about football, and I just couldn't handle it. I stayed in on my own.

'I was then putting myself upstairs when people were downstairs. I was just like, "Get everyone out the house, I don't want anyone here!".'

Carroll, we learn, felt an injustice. It is easy to understand why as he begins an exasperated recount of the ankle injury that plagued him for two years.

'This is ridiculous,' he warns. 'I had one operation and the screws came loose. Unheard of. The next one, the fracture opened again because the screws still weren't tight enough. So I went to a new surgeon. This time the screws were bigger but they realised the ankle ligaments were frayed on the outside. It had never been spotted, for two years!

At 30 years of age, Carroll wants to pick up where he left off when he left eight years ago

'My last game at West Ham I played with a broken ankle. I'd been told it was fine. I was in so much pain and thought, "I just can't do this any more".'

Somehow, Carroll finds the will to laugh.

'I should have gone to Wickes and got a big bag of screws before those consultations! But the latest surgeon was excellent. He repaired everything. That's nine months and no problems.'

After a summer training on his own and with no adverse reaction, Newcastle decided Carroll was worth a gamble. He signed on an incentivised pay-as-you-play deal.

'I got a phone call saying, "Are you on your way up?". I was like, "No, but I soon will be!".

The 6ft 4in frontman scored a mammoth 26 goals in 2010 leading to the mega-money move

Carroll told of the delight of close friends when they learnt he would be returning home

'Everyone was ringing but I was playing it down. I then sent a picture of the Angel of the North to our WhatsApp group, about 25 mates. It went mental.'

There was a reminder of Carroll at his best during the recent 2-1 home win over Southampton, when he came from the bench on the hour with his team trailing. Come full-time he was man of the match, having inspired the comeback and then defending Newcastle's lead.

We watch a clip of his stoppage-time tackle on Cedric, which induced a roar as loud as a goal.

'He wasn't getting past me, no chance. I thought, "I'm taking the ball, the player and anything else there might be".

'He took a heavy touch and I was like, "He's mine!".

'But that game, the noise, it felt so good. It's why I came home.'

At first, says Carroll, he thought he recognised the man on the motorbike who pulled up alongside his Jeep at traffic lights and began chatting to him.

It was only when the biker demanded his watch and then gestured to pull a gun on him that the terror began to unfold.

Until now, Carroll has never spoken about the events of November 2, 2016.

'You fear for your life. It was 25 minutes being chased by two people on bikes pulling guns out. I was nearly home, so I spun around and started driving back towards West Ham's training ground.

'I was clipping cars, going through red lights, speed cameras, overtaking on the wrong side.

Carroll endured a frustrating spell in London both on and off the pitch with the Hammers

He was sidelined for two years following failed surgery on a troublesome ankle injury

'I was driving down a dual carriageway and couldn't get back on the right side because of the railings. I was coming to a hill and cars are flying past me and I haven't got a clue what is on the other side, that's scary. I'm dodging cars and lorries are coming towards me. All the time these bikes are still with me. Thankfully, I made it back to the training ground.

'It was actually my missus' birthday and it was all arranged to go out — that was one night I did deserve a drink!'

One man was subsequently jailed for 11 years, six for that and five for other robberies. Carroll, though, says the fear lingers.

'My family were worried, "Were they targeting you? Was it a one-off? Are they gonna target the house when Billi is at home with the kids?". Even now, when a bike drives past, I s*** myself to be honest.

The striker was also targeted by armed robbers on his way home from training in 2016

Carroll stands with Sportsmail's man in the north east Craig Hope at the club's training ground

'Because of the kids, it's everything, no matter where you go. Swimming? Panic. Park? Panic. Zoo? Panic. 'Where are they? What if this happens?'

Carroll's speeds during the chase were, understandably, excessive. But that brings us on to a car journey we once shared when, admittedly, Miss Daisy could have beaten us home.

In 2009, Newcastle won 1-0 at Preston and Carroll was withdrawn in the second half feeling unwell.

His condition deteriorated and, rather than expose the rest of the squad on the team bus, manager Chris Hughton asked this correspondent if I could drive Carroll back to Tyneside. Conscious of the multi-million-pound asset wrapped in tracksuit tops on the back seat, it was an inside-lane crawl all the way.

'Yeah, thanks for that,' says Carroll. No problem, only I did then miss a week of work with swine flu, I inform him.

'I didn't have swine flu!' he comes back. 'Man flu, more like.'

Carroll's eyes roll at mention of her name. Karren Brady, West Ham's vice-chairman.

In November, days after Carroll played in Newcastle's 3-2 win at London Stadium, Brady attacked him in her newspaper column, questioning his commitment and joking that he regularly attended his grandmothers' funerals to miss matches.

'Ridiculous. Completely ridiculous,' returns Carroll. 'Some of the things I could say about her… It's madness. I've spoken to her about five times.

'But that's Karren Brady. I'm not bothered what she says. We beat them then she says that. She never said that in the seven years I was there. She's just bitter. Let her get on with it.'

West Ham chief Karren Brady angered Carroll with remarks made in a newspaper column

It is, then, of relief to Carroll that his four-year-old son, Arlo, has switched allegiance to Newcastle.

'He was West Ham-mad and always refused to wear Newcastle strips, no matter how hard my dad tried. Now, everything is black and white, he even sings the Blaydon Races.

'He's obsessed with football, he knows everything, a lot more than me! Before we beat Man United, he asked me to get Scott McTominay's shirt. I was going to but it got a bit heated and I was arguing with McTominay. I thought, "Sorry son, that shirt isn't happening now!".'

Carroll, by his own admission, has never been at ease speaking to the media. His brow used to sweat as a teenager just talking to local reporters. Ask him about family, however, and he forgets the tapes are rolling. His dad, Thomas, was a steel factory worker who honed his son's heading skills by throwing a ball to him at the top of the stairs.

'Every time with Arlo now it's like, "Come on, we're throwing balls". We were practising the other day with a proper matchball. My two-year-old, Wolf, then came toddling in and I threw it for him to head — it knocked him clean over! My missus started having a go at me. I was like, "He's got to learn!".

Carroll has made nine appearances for his country and bears no grudges for lack of game time

'So the three boys and my daughter are all heading it. I throw the ball at Billi's head as well but she tells me to F off and throws something back!'

There was a story on MailOnline last week of the couple's house in Essex being the most viewed property on Rightmove in 2019.

'I saw that, it's OK having a look, but no one's bought it!'

Listed for £5m and having since paid Rod Stewart £4.1m for his Essex mansion, Carroll agrees it's a world away from his humble beginnings in Gateshead.

'It's mad, but it's been hard, this didn't just happen overnight. I've been working for this since I was four years old, and my family have too.

The Englishman is now relishing the opportunity to live his dream with his boyhood club

'My mam and dad were standing in the sleet up at Alnwick, then down to Hackney Marshes, all over the country so I could play football.

'I'll never forget they saved to get me this one pair of boots I'd whinged for, the R9 Silvers. I wanted them so bad, then they hurt my feet. They were like, "They've just cost 130 quid, you're wearing them!".

'But they worked hard and sacrificed a lot. It was all to play football. That's all I've ever wanted.

'I didn't want the injuries or the headlines — most of which is rubbish anyway — I just wanted this.'

If 'this' is playing for Newcastle United, you do wonder what might have been had he failed that Liverpool medical after all.