Absolute dedication to boxing is rocketing Dubois towards a world title shot

While the world leaders of heavyweight boxing continue their verbal jousting on social media, the south Londoner who is heir apparent is primed to make another knockout campaign statement with his fists.

Daniel Dubois expects to flatten Japan's first heavyweight contender, Kyotaro Fujimoto, at the Copper Box Arena in London's Olympic Park on Saturday night.

So he should, even though this is but the 14th professional fight for the dynamite puncher from Dulwich, who is just 22.

Absolute dedication is rocketing Daniel Dubois towards a world title shot within a year

Absolute dedication to boxing — 'train, sleep, eat, train again, go home to the family,' is how he describes his life — is rocketing Dubois towards a world title shot within a year.

That will mean challenging the likes of Anthony Joshua, Tyson Fury and Deontay Wilder .

'I'm ready,' says Dubois. 'Next weekend if they fancy it. My dream has always been to become the undisputed world heavyweight champion. The sooner I get started on the belts the better.'

His eccentric opponent — a former world champion kick-boxer who has his hair cut in the shape and colours of the Japanese flag — threatens: 'This is my big chance. I'll take the triumph home to my warrior country.'

Dubois expects to flatten Japan's first heavyweight contender, Kyotaro Fujimoto, on Saturday

Dubois says: 'I never make the mistake of underestimating anyone. But I always prepare properly, so expect another big performance with a devastating finish.'

That would add secondary WBC and WBO belts to his growing collection and move him sharply up the world rankings.

Dubois says: 'I'm young, I'm strong, I've got the ability. I'm getting the experience. Whenever they're ready.'

Meanwhile, former IBF welterweight champion Kell Brook will return to the ring after a year out against American Mark DeLuca in Sheffield on February 8.

Dubois v Fujimoto is live on BT Sport 1 from 7.30pm.