She is reprising her role of Wanda Maximoff/Scarlet Witch for the upcoming Disney + mini-series WandaVision.

But with the shoot in Atlanta on hold for the holidays, Elizabeth Olsen was back in Los Angeles to do some holiday shopping just days before Christmas.

And the acclaimed actress looked dramatically different, with her fiery-red locks for the series being replaced by a dirty-blonde look.

Tis' the season: Elizabeth Olsen, 30, was spotted heading to her car after doing some shopping in Beverly Hills on Sunday

The Los Angeles native, 30, was spotted heading to her car after doing some shopping in Beverly Hills.

She looked stylish in black pants that were paired with a grey-patterned blazer, white shirt and black boots.

While out, she stopped by Petrossian, a French business that sells a wide variety of items like fine spices, caviar and smoked-based products.

Eventually the Wind River star picked up some food to go and was on her way,, wearing a pair of dark sunglasses.

On the go: The acclaimed actress looked stylish in black pants that were paired with a grey-patterned blazer, white shirt and black boots

Olsen has been portraying Wanda Maximoff, aka Scarlet Witch, in the Marvel Cinematic Universe that includes, Avengers: Age Of Ultron; Captain America: Civil War; Avengers: Infinity Game and Avengers: Endgame.

WandaVision, which also stars Paul Bettany as Vision, will consist of six episodes that is expected to be released in the early part of 2021.

The cast also includes Kat Dennings, Teyonah Parris, Randall Park and Kathryn Hahn.

Makeover: Just six days earlier, Olsen was spotted on the set of WandaVision in Atlanta, Georgia with long and flowing ginger locks

The younger sister of twin Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen currently stars in the Facebook Watch drama series Sorry For Your Loss, which just finished airing its second season last month.

In the show, she plays a young woman who struggles along with her family to cope with the unexpected death of her husband.

Her Hollywood resume also includes such films as the drama-thriller Martha Marcy May Marlene (2011), Spike Lee's action-thriller Oldboy (2013), and the black comedy-drama Ingrid Goes West (2017).