He recently revealed he's produced an album of carols only for his family after struggling to find 'good Christmas records'.

And Paul McCartney prepared for the festive period as he and his wife Nancy Shevell touched down at New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport on Sunday evening.

The Beatles icon, 77, carried his essentials in a black duffle bag as he joined his partner, 60, in her native state, ahead of their annual trip to St Barts.

Christmas trip: Paul McCartney prepared for the festive period as he and his wife Nancy Shevell touched down at New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport on Sunday evening

Cutting a typically smart figure, the Hey Jude hitmaker strolled across the terminal in a blue shirt, classic black trousers and suede brogues.

The bassist wrapped up for the winter chill of the Big Apple as he rounded off his outfit with a longline wool coat and a two-tone scarf.

Businesswoman Nancy, meanwhile, nailed casual chic in a slogan jumper, skinny jeans and a grey jacket.

Heading off: The Beatles icon, 77, carried his essentials in a black duffle bag as he joined his partner, 60, in her native state, ahead of their annual trip to St Barts

Earlier in the month, Paul revealed he has made an album of carols – but only his family are allowed to listen to it.

The musician recorded the singles at his home studio after struggling to find good Christmas songs. He says he will never release the tracks.

‘Years ago I thought there’s not very good Christmas records,’ he told BBC Radio 4’s World At One. ‘I like something traditional and simple and easy so I went into my studio and I made one.

‘This has not been released it’s just for the family. It gets brought out each year.

Secret record: Earlier in the month, the musician (pictured in July) revealed he has made an album of carols – but only his family are allowed to listen to it

‘The kids like it and it’s kind of traditional and now it’s the grandkids getting indoctrinated with my carols record. Then there’s the booze... It’s all very jolly.’

The rock icon, who has five children and eight grandchildren, had a festive hit in 1979 with Wonderful Christmastime, which reached No.8 in the Irish charts.

He also spoke in the interview of how he is traditional when it comes to Christmas dinner – although, of course, it must be vegetarian.

Intimate: The rock icon recorded it at his home studio after struggling to find good Christmas songs. He says he will never release the tracks (pictured with Mary, 50, and Stella, 48, in 2014)

He recalled how his late wife Linda used to make a ‘macaroni turkey’ – chilling macaroni cheese into a hard mass before frying it – so he had something to carve. Now his family gets a vegetarian roast.

‘When we first came down to London from Liverpool there was one restaurant called Cranks, which gives you the idea of how people thought of veggies,’ he said.

‘Linda and I were on a farm and there were lambs in the field and we were eating a leg of lamb and we didn’t make the connection and suddenly we went “Oh” and the light bulb went off and we said, “Should we do something about this?” ’