The gelding was beaten by Cyrname in last month's Christy 1965 Chase at Ascot

Altior could still run at the Kempton's Christmas meeting despite not featuring among the seven entries for the Ladbrokes King George VI Chase on Boxing Day.

Trainer Nicky Henderson said he would be speaking to owner Patricia Pugh about running Altior in the Desert Orchid Chase 24 hours later after seeing tangible signs that the gelding has got over his bruising defeat at the hands of Cyrname in last month's Christy 1965 Chase at Ascot.

Altior easily won last season's Desert Orchid Chase by 19 lengths from Diego Du Charmil.

Nicky Henderson's Altior easily won last season's Desert Orchid Chase by 19 lengths

On Friday Henderson said: 'I might run Altior (in the Desert Orchid Chase). I will speak to the owners tonight. His work this week has been miles better than last week.'

Henderson had virtually ruled Altior out of the King George last weekend after he lacked his usual mojo in a work-out under jockey Nico De Boinville. His presence at Kempton would be a major fillip to day two of the meeting.

Cyrname, the 13-8 favourite, heads the seven King George entries alongside his Paul Nicholls-trained stablemate and 2018 King George winner Clan Des Obeaux.

Colin Tizzard-trained duo Lostintranslation and Thistlecrack, the 2016 winner, line up in opposition which also includes Venetia Williams-trained Aso, Willie Mullins-trained Footpad and Warren Greatrex-trained La Bague Au Roi.

Henderson was successful at Ascot on Friday with the impressive Angels Breath, who beat sole rival Mont Des Avaloirs 23 lengths in the Grade Two Jacquart Noel Novices' Chase.

But it was a bitter-sweet victory with Angels Breath having to leave the course in horse ambulance after sustaining a worrying cut close to the tendon in his off fore-leg.

Henderson said: 'The most important thing is to clean it up. There is a lot of muck out there. He was superb. It is too cruel for words if that is going to knock him out.'