Eliza Manners, Alice Manners, and Violet Manners attend a private dinner hosted by Delvaux and British Vogue at Mark's Club on July 10, 2018

How long before we can enjoy a posh version of the reality television hit Keeping Up With The Kardashians?

I hear the Duke of Rutland's family have been approached about a programme documenting their life at Belvoir Castle in Leicestershire.

'We've had a lot of offers,' confirms Lady Eliza Manners, 22, one of the Duke's spirited three daughters. 'But it's just never been right for us.' It might not be long, however, before the right offer does arrive.

The Kardashians have a combined fortune of more than $1 billion [£770million] after appearing on screen for a decade.

'The one similarity is that we're a big family and have a very powerful, strong, amazing mum,' Lady Eliza tells me at The Gentleman's Journal Christmas Drinks at Wild by Tart.

The Duchess of Rutland lives in one wing of Belvoir with estate manager Phil Burtt, while the Duke lives in another.

Lady Violet Manners, Lady Eliza Manners and Lady Alice Maners attend the 2016 V&A Summer Party In Partnership with Harrods at The V&A on June 22, 2016

The Kardashians have a combined fortune of more than $1 billion [£770million] after appearing on screen for a decade

Prince Andrew frozen out from family ski holiday

After being forced to step back from his public duties, Prince Andrew is now missing out on his private commitments, too.

Conspicuous by his absence at Princess Beatrice's engagement party on Wednesday, the Duke of York is now expected to stay in this country when his daughters fly off to the Alps for their annual skiing holiday with their mother in the new year.

'The Duchess of York will be spending Christmas in Switzerland,' one of her friends tells me.

After being forced to step back from his public duties, Prince Andrew is now missing out on his private commitments, too (File image)

'Princesses Beatrice and Eugenie will be joining her after they've spent the festive period with the Royal Family at Sandringham.

'Prince Andrew will not be joining them this year. He will be lying low back home.'

The Duke will be very sorry not to be sloping off to that most chi-chi of Swiss ski resorts, Verbier, where he jointly owns a seven-bedroom chalet with Fergie.

The pair, who divorced in 1996, bought the property for £13 million in both their names in 2014.

New Year in the snow with their daughters has been a regular holiday for Fergie and Andrew, who have remained very close and share Royal Lodge in Windsor.

Beatrice is due to marry property developer Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi next spring and his mother, Nikki Williams-Ellis, hosted the engagement party at fashionable Chiltern Firehouse in London's Marylebone.

Bea wore a sparkly silver dress designed by her favourite fashion label, Needle & Thread, prompting speculation among guests that it might also create her wedding dress.

Cocktails were supplied by Casamigos, the tequila brand founded by Hollywood star George Clooney and Rande Gerber, husband of supermodel Cindy Crawford. Princess Eugenie's husband, Jack Brooksbank, is Casamigos brand manager.

Photographers massed outside the Chiltern Firehouse to capture guests including Pippa Middleton, and pop stars Ellie Goulding and James Blunt, but Bea and Edo avoided the snappers by spending the night at the venue.

£56million peer to divorce his 'wonderful' wife

City grandee Paul Myners faces taking a hit on his reputed £56 million fortune.

Former minister Paul Myners is to divorce his vivacious wife, Alison after 24 years of marriage

I can reveal that the former minister is to divorce his vivacious wife, Alison after 24 years of marriage. 'Yes, we are no longer together, but all is amicable,' Lord Myners (pictured with Alison, top) tells me. 'She's a wonderful woman and we are currently going through a divorce.'

Alison, 60, is now courting television producer Stephen Garrett, 62, who's known for his work on hit BBC spy dramas Spooks and The Night Manager. She's understood to have met him through her role as chairman of the Royal Academy of Arts.

This week, Garrett and Lady Myners co-hosted a Christmas party in Hampstead, North London.

Lord Myners, 71, a former chairman of Marks & Spencer, has two children with Alison as well three daughters from his previous marriage to school teacher Tessa Stanford-Smith.

Alison, 60, is now courting television producer Stephen Garrett, 62

(Very) modern manners

It seems impossible to have a cheerful disposition these days without friends accusing you of being on drugs.

Or that's the complaint from jaunty TV chef Ainsley Harriott.

'For years, people have said the reason why I am so energetic is because I'm on cocaine all the time,' he tells me. 'If only they knew I have a bent septum in my nose and I can't sniff anything.' .'

Speaking at the Tramp 50th anniversary Christmas party, the former Strictly contestant adds: 'People find it hard to believe that you can be a chef, funny and happy at the same time.'

Catwoman's picky about purrfect pad

Ever wondered what it's like house-hunting for a Hollywood star? I hear that Zoe Kravitz is looking to buy a property in London and has a daunting list of demands

Ever wondered what it's like house-hunting for a Hollywood star? I hear that Zoe Kravitz is looking to buy a property in London and has a daunting list of demands.

The 31-year-old daughter of pop star Lenny Kravitz and actress Lisa Bonet has a budget of £10 million, but some of her requests could prove challenging for even the most thorough of estate agents.

The actress (right), who is shooting The Batman, in which she plays Catwoman, in Hertfordshire next year is said to want: two kitchens — one to cook vegan food and one for animal products; a yoga, Pilates and healing room; a gym and steam room; a space to showcase art; a space to create a hair and make-up salon; and a garden that is not overlooked and has at least six trees.

Oh, and the location is said to be very important due to the meridians of 'energetic activity' that connect the earth to the body. Obviously.

Why was the famous scene in which Christine Keeler emerges naked from the swimming pool at Lord Astor's Cliveden House, catching the eye of war minister John Profumo, shot at a Spanish villa for a new drama about the Sixties affair?

'We couldn't do it at Cliveden because it's now a luxury hotel and it was too expensive,' admits Kate Triggs, producer of The Trial Of Christine Keeler. Now fit for royalty, Cliveden is where Meghan Markle spent her last night as a commoner.

The Queen takes a generous view of 'scandals' when it comes to her staff. This week, she decorated servant Gary Smith — her Fendersmith, or chief fireplace lighter, for nearly 35 years — with a silver Bar to his Royal Victorian Medal.

Earlier this year, it was reported that Jones, 54, had met a married chambermaid, Joanne Ancell, 44, for trysts in the State Dining Room at Windsor Castle. A courtier tells me: 'Her Majesty wanted to reward his loyal service.'

Who'd have thought stargazing could be so lucrative? I can disclose that floppy-haired BBC physicist Brian Cox has two companies with a net worth of £4.6 million.

Professor Cox, whose live shows are sell-outs, generated a £1.3 million profit in the year to March 2019 across BCLIVEUK, a performance arts business, and television production company Apollo's Children.

Dividends of £447,030 were paid, of which £168,000 went to his wife, Gia Milinovich, according to newly published accounts.

Cox used to play keyboards with pop group D:Ream, whose song Things Can Only Get Better later became Labour's anthem under Tony Blair.

They certainly have for the telegenic Professor Cox.

Putting bums on seats is a priority for any venue — but in the case of the MCC it's a question of what kind of seats do you want those bottoms to sit on. Members were asked to rate the benches in the pavilion and compare them with two new kinds of seating.

The overwhelming result was in favour of what Lord's calls 'Bench A' — a wider-slatted padded affair which will now replace the existing benches in time for the June Test against the West Indies. Owzat!

They sang at Prince Charles and Diana's wedding, and at Winston Churchill's funeral, but the St Paul's Cathedral Choir is to undergo a revolution. I hear that girls are to be admitted for the first time in almost 900 years.

'Plans for the introduction of girls' voices at St Paul's Cathedral are currently being formulated,' a spokesman confirms. Opera singer Lesley Garrett, who criticised the cathedral choir school system as a bastion of male privilege, tells me: 'I'm absolutely thrilled that St Paul's are going to be taking girls because it will help to debunk the myth that boys have a unique sound.'

The smart set's talking about...

Charlotte Olympia's show shutdown

Worn by everyone from the Duchess of Sussex to pop superstar Taylor Swift, Charlotte Olympia's quirky shoes have become the height of fashion.

Sadly, the label created by heiress Charlotte Dellal appears to be on its last legs.

Worn by everyone from the Duchess of Sussex to pop superstar Taylor Swift, Charlotte Olympia's quirky shoes have become the height of fashion

I can reveal the 38-year-old granddaughter of late billionaire property tycoon 'Black Jack' Dellal has been forced to close her flagship store in Chelsea, where shoes sold for around £500 a pair. Her £395 Kitty Slippers are a favourite of Meghan Markle. 'It's very sad, but she just couldn't make it pay,' a friend tells me.

Her Mayfair shop has also closed its doors and Charlotte Olympia Holdings Ltd has been put into voluntary liquidation.

Charlotte, who declines to comment, lives in West London with her husband, private equity investor Maxim Crewe, 39. Her label has won countless fashion awards, but an expansion into America failed and she filed for bankruptcy protection in the U.S. last year.