Channel Ten star Grant Denyer suffered a number of health woes in 2019.

And the 42-year-old's wife Chezzi told the Australian Women's Weekly for their Christmas issue, that the holidays are all about family.

'Health, happiness and family is all we're looking for this Christmas,' she said. 'The start of the year was pretty tough for us health wise, but we're finishing strong.'

'We're finishing strong!' Grant Denyer's wife Chezzi, 39, said Christmas is all about 'happiness and family' in an interview with the Australian Women's Weekly. The Channel 10 star, 42, suffered a number of health woes in 2019

In July, Grant took to Instagram to reveal he was out of action, flat on his back.

The former Sunrise weatherman was pictured lying alongside a canister of Hydralyte and a box of Imodium, which provides effective relief from diarrhoea.

'Me and [wife] Chezzi have both been crook as dogs,' he announced.

Turns out Grant was suffering from a cryptosporidium infection in his bowel, after he contracted a nasty parasite.

Hospital: In July, Grant took to Instagram to reveal he was out of action. The former Sunrise weatherman suffered from a cryptosporidium infection in his bowel, after he contracted a nasty parasite

This was just the latest in a long line of health woes to affect Grant, Chezzi, 39, and their daughters Sailor, eight, and Scout, four.

In March, Grant was hospitalised with a ruptured disc after an accident on his Bathurst property.

At the time Chezzi shared a picture to Instagram of her husband in his hospital bed being comforted by Sailor.

'[The] hardest part of taking the girls to visit daddy, is when it's time to leave and they don't want to let go... Makes me cry every time,' she wrote in the caption.

Bedtime cuddles: In March, Grant was hospitalised again with a ruptured disc after an accident on his Bathurst property. Pictured in hospital with his daughter Sailor, eight

Battlers: Chezzi and Grant have had quite the year so far, with one medical drama after another

It was understandably a difficult time for Chezzi, who broke down on Grant's 2Day FM breakfast show shortly after, as she relayed a conversation she had with Sailor who was worried 'daddy was going to end up in a wheelchair'.

In 2008, Grant was rushed to Wollongong Hospital, after he broke his back while attempting to drive a 6.5 tonne truck over five cars at the NSW Monster Truck Championships at Dapto Showground.

He has also admitted to becoming addicted to prescription pain medication following his accident.