Stephanie Davis has transformed her home into a winter wonderland in preparation for Christmas.

The Hollyoaks star, 26, opted for a snowy all-white theme, along with a TV log fire and decorated Christmas tree in time for Santa's visit to her son Caben, two.

Stephanie shared a sneak peek of her Instagram and looked incredible as she posed in front of her tree in a tight black crop top and bottoms with leather knee pads.

Happier: Stephanie Davis, 26, set her mind on the joy of Christmas on Friday as she posted pictures of her festively transformed home

The actress sat on her faux fur rug in front of her decked out Christmas tree, which was covered in glittering lights and fake snow.

Another picture showed a miniature Father Christmas sitting on her cabinet in front of the video of the log fire.

Consistent with the Christmas theme, the surrounding walls were white and two reindeer statues stood in front of the tree.

Excited: The Hollyoaks star, 26, opted for a snowy all-white theme, along with a TV log fire and decorated Christmas tree in time for Santa's visit to her son Caben, two

In a caption on the image of the tree and log fire, Stephanie wrote: 'Love my home and I love Christmas! Feeling sooo christmasy!

'Cannot wait time get a film on tonight with goodies all cosy! House is spotless, Bl**dy Perfect.

'Feeling so content. Cannot wait for Christmas . Frosted 7ft Tree from taskers, decorations from @taskersonline along with the lights.

Stephanie has been taking a break from filming Hollyoaks and revealed earlier this month she was an hour away from death after she tried to take her own life.

Evening in: Stephanie posted a video of her enjoying popcorn while watching TV

The actress told her Instagram 'I finally broke' as she described feeling her body giving up after being rushed to intensive care.

Detailing her mental health battle, Stephanie, who plays Sinead O'Connor in the Channel 4 soap, revealed her absence was because she suffered a relapse after a 'long time sober'.

She penned; 'I've cried before posting this, I haven't been ready to talk about this and I am still fragile so please respect how hard this is for me. I haven't been back to work because the real truth is I relapsed and tried to kill myself'.

Stephanie continued, alongside an emotionally distressing video of herself recording her final goodbye: 'I was working on something which I went through in real life that brought up a lot of pain for me, I lost my trust and self worth...

Decked out: The Christmas tree was covered in lights, fake snow, flowers and pine cones

'I hated myself and didn't feel good enough anymore. It's hard being a single mum, my uncle died and I was battling badly with my mental health without any help or medication and I finally broke...

'I knew I was breaking for a good while before this, but I was trying my absolute BEST to be ok, but I wasn't.

In the emotional post, Stephanie added: 'I was rushed into hospital by blue light and straight into intensive care, if I was left another hour I would have died.'

With the help of doctors, the actress was given a diagnosis- Borderline Personality Disorder.

She told fans: 'I'm back to not the old Steph but the funny Steph everyone knew and loved but 10000x better. I'm so proud of my self for getting through what I just have and to the beautiful good hearted people who helped me.

I hope to make a difference next year regarding mental health and addiction and make a difference! but right now I still need to work on my self, build up my strength.'

MailOnline contacted Stephanie's representatives and Hollyoaks for comment at the time.