Protesters sang 'Happy Birthday' to Jane Fonda as she was led away by officers after being arrested at her weekly climate change protest in Washington D.C.

The legendary actress, who turns 82 on Saturday, was joined by renowned feminist and political activist Gloria Steinem at the 'Fire Drill Friday' rally on Capitol Hill.

And the Grace and Frankie star was certainly having a good time as fellow protesters sang Happy Birthday to her as officers led her away, with her hands in zip ties.

According to the Hollywood Reporter, this is the fifth time she was arrested, with D.C. authorities previously telling the outlet that Fonda would not be charged for her prior arrests.

Protesters sang 'Happy Birthday' to Jane Fonda as she was led away by officers after being arrested at her weekly climate change protest in Washington D.C.

Fonda was joined by renowned feminist and political activist Gloria Steinem at the 'Fire Drill Friday' rally on Capitol Hill. The two are pictured fourth and fifth from the left

It remains unclear if she will be charged this time as she had spent one night in jail for one of her prior arrests.

Last Friday, Sally Field became the latest celebrity to be arrested with Jane Fonda, who occasionally brings her A-list friends to join her on the rallies.

Ted Danson, Diane Lane, Catherine Keener, Sam Waterston, Robert F. Kennedy Jr, and Patricia Arquette have all been detained by authorities during previous demonstrations.

Fonda encourages protesters to wear bright red clothing to the demonstrations, and Field didn't disappoint for the occasion.

The Norma Rae star rocked a turtleneck jumper and a red overcoat on her latest run-in with the law.

Fire Drill Fridays are designed to get politicians to address climate change and have been running every Friday since October.

Fonda, a two-time Oscar winner, was able to walk free after paying a $50 fine the first three times she was arrested at the Capitol and charged with a misdemeanor.

However, her last arrest on November 1 landed her in jail for the night because it marked her fourth misdemeanor offense.

Protesters sat on the ground with Fonda in the middle of them as officers arrived at the scene

Fonda's hands were placed in zip ties as she was led away from the protesters by officers

The protesters clapped and cheered as they sang 'Happy Birthday' to Fonda, who turns 82 tomorrow

'The conditions are not great, frankly, and you have to sleep on a metal slab. And I'm almost 82 years old and I hurt,' she told The Hollywood Reporter at the time.

'I was in for 20 hours and for seven hours I was in a cell. It was a holding pen. All of the cells had multiple people in them except mine. In my cell, it was just me and the cockroaches.'

Fonda says she's relocated to Washington, DC - at least, temporarily - after being inspired by climate change activists such as Greta Thunberg.

'So, I moved here to do an action every Friday called 'Fire Drill Friday' because Greta Thunberg says 'our house is on fire we have to behave appropriately',' Fonda told reporters last week.

'So, we have a fire drill every Friday and every Friday at 11[am] we will have a different focus on climate.'

Jane Fonda said she relocated to Washington, DC - at least, temporarily - after being inspired by climate change activists such as Greta Thunberg

The Academy Award winner told The Washington Post last month that she intended to protest in Washington every Friday until Grace and Frankie resumes filming in the new year

The first arrest occurred on October 11 and saw Fonda getting led away by herself and not alongside any celebrity friends

The Academy Award winner told The Washington Post last month that she intended to protest in Washington every Friday until Grace and Frankie resumes filming in the new year.

'I'm going to take my body, which is kind of famous and popular right now because of [my series, Grace and Frankie}, and I'm going to go to DC and I'm going to have a rally every Friday,' Fonda said.

'It'll be called Fire Drill Friday. And we're going to engage in civil disobedience and we're going to get arrested every Friday.'

The first arrest occurred on October 11 and saw Fonda getting led away by herself and not alongside any celebrity friends.

But, since then, Fonda has had a number of stars join at her protests, which she's held for the past eight weeks.

Ted Danson, Sam Waterston, Robert F Kennedy Jr and June Diane Raphael are just some of the celebrities who've let themselves get arrested.

Before her arrests, Fonda compared the need to address climate change with the urgency Americans faced in the 1930s with the Great Depression.

She was reported as saying: 'Make no mistake. Change is coming whether we like it or not, by disaster or by design.'

Fonda has a history of protest, being one of the most public faces in the anti- Vietnam War movement of the 1960s and 70s.