With party season in full swing the horrible aftermath of a month full of drinking and fun festivities is the hangover.

While some people try stodgy food or a fried breakfast the health foods market is flooded with supplements and miracle cures that claim to stop the thumping headaches and sick stomachs that come after a night of boozing.

With that in mind, six Femail reporters tried out some of the hangover cures on the market, from milk thistle shots, food supplement and a Berroca, with VERY mixed results

Sarah: Survivor

Rating:

Survivor claims to accelerate the breakdown of acetaledehyde, a chemical byproduct of alcohol that is 40 times more toxic than alcohol itself.

It contains ampelopsis grossdenata, or vine tea, and puerairie lobata, a root plant, and two capsules should be taken after every fourth drink.

Sarah pictured left on a night out drinking prosecco, said that Survivor, pictured right, worked really well, and she will definitely be picking it up again

Sarah said: I've tried a lot of hangover cures in the past and nothing seems to have ever worked. So I wasn't expecting much from this one - which was aptly named survivor.

The hangover cure came in capsules, you were supposed to take two tablets for every four drinks you had, then two more before bed. I had around five drinks, taking two while I was out. Then when I got home I took two more.

I felt quite drunk as I was preparing for bed at 11.30 and was not looking forward to my alarm waking me up at 6.30am. But as I woke up there was no headache and no sicky feeling I normally get with a hangover. I was waiting for my hangover to kick in all day, but apart from feeling a little tired - I felt great.

I was so surprised that they worked and I'll definitely be keeping them handy for the next time I'm drinking.

Bridie: Sun Eleuthero

Rating:

Eleuthero senticosus is a type of herb which grows in wild mountain forest in East Asia, and is traditionally used in Chinese medicine.

The makers of Sun Eleuthero say that in scientific tests, those who take the supplement before and after drinking are left feeling fresh the next day, compared to those who drink the same amount without taking the pill.

Bridie said: I was a little worried taking Sun Eleuthero as I didn't really understand the packet and what was in it. I was also very sceptical that the instructions said to take 12 (!!) tablets a day.

I apprehensively took a couple with my lunch hours before I went out for our team's Christmas drinks and didn't feel anything. They were tiny and easy to swallow.

About an hour later I took a third and suddenly felt incredibly wired and jittery. I felt like my typing got a lot faster and I was a lot more manic but didn't actually feel like I was concentrating or working particularly productively.

There was no way I was going to take another nine as I feel I may have started hallucinating or having palpitations.

I was actually a little worried to drink but by the evening I had calmed down and happily sipped on my prosecco and later a G&T.

The next morning I actually didn't feel hungover, just incredibly tired and a little thirsty. I actually felt a lot more tired than I would expect to. I had about four-five hours sleep which usually I'd be able to function fine on, but I was struggling to keep my eyes open at my desk.

I took another tablet with my breakfast and it didn't perk me up much, but I didn't have a headache or feel sick which I guess is a success?

Ultimately, I think it was coffee and copious amounts of water and peppermint tea that made me feel more awake and alive - not the trippy tablets.

Bridie, pictured left sipping on a gin and tonic and right with Sun Eleuthero, said that the tablets made her feel very jittery and shaky but didn't help with her hangover

Claire: ACV milk thistle and charcoal bumblezest

Rating:

The natural Apple Cider Vinegar, Milk Thistle and Activated Charcoal drink with a lemon base infused with other botanical ingredients claims to work by 'detox and defend'.

Milk Thistle has long been used as a home remedy to help alleviate hangovers

Claire said: As I reached for the bottle of ACV milk thistle and charcoal bumblezest, I hoped that it'd alleviate the pounding in my head and make me feel slightly less rotten.

I downed it as instructed, undeterred by the strong vinegar smell that arose from the tiny bottle.

I waited and waited for that moment where I'd finally feel fresh and ready to bounce back and re-start the day, but it never came!

In fact, it made my headache worse, forcing me to run for the ibuprofen! Definitely wouldn't recommend

Claire (left enjoying a drink) said she felt WORSE after trying the ACV milk thistle shot (right) as it made he feel sick

JESSICA: S.O.S ME

Rating:

What to eat to ease a hangover Dr Luke Powles, Associate Clinical Director, from Bupa UK told Femail that party-goers should avoid a fry up and instead tuck into something that will help replenish lost minerals. 'Fruits, like bananas or kiwis, are a great way to restock your potassium levels and are full of natural sugars that can help you feel a bit better. Stick to bland, plain foods, like toast, bagels and crackers, they may help to boost your blood sugar levels and keep your stomach settled. 'Along with greasy food, drinking a lot of coffee is rumoured to be a great hangover cure, again, this isn't the case. Caffeine is a mild diuretic; this on top of the alcohol drunk the night before can dehydrate you even further. Whilst one cup of coffee is fine, you're better sticking to other rehydrating drinks afterwards, like water, fruit juice, isotonic drinks and herbal teas'.

The SOS Me three day rescue and recovery kit is filled with a mix of multivitamin tablets and capsules.

Its mix of B-vitamins, Zinc, Selenium, Copper and more claims to protect the body before you party, improve the detoxification process and minimise the symptoms of a hangover.

Jessica said: My hangover cure involved taking three vitamin packed capsules every day for three days along with an energising drink in a sachet form.

I have to say I felt quite spritely after taking them, despite only having a few hours sleep with festive celebrations in full swing.

However they failed me a little at the last hurdle, when I had approximately 15 G&Ts at the work Christmas party. I woke up at 5am feeling distinctly nauseous and with a banging headache.

But after an emergency cheese on toast (during which I set the fire alarm off) and hovering near a bucket, all was well and I managed to nail a successful night out minus any throwing up.

I'm not sure I would buy the cure as it's a lot of work over three days, but I'm sure it gave me a little boost.

Jessica said she felt quite spritely at first after taking her SOS kit (right) but after several G&Ts at the Christmas party she woke up feeling sick

STEPH: Yeti & The Fox tablets

Rating:

Yeti and the Fox tablets are a combination of , S-Acetyl Glutathione an immune system booster, Vitamin B6 and N-acetylcysteine which helps to increase the body's levels of glutathione, which dilutes the affects of alcohol.

They recommend you take two capsules with water just before you start drinking. Then, once you've gotten home, take one more with some water and head to bed.

Steph said: 'This worked a treat! I took the first tablet just as I had my first drink and the other two before going to bed after a night at our Christmas party and was so pleased to wake up in the morning feeling fresh!

'They didn't taste of anything and not sure what they did but it worked!

'No hangover symptoms at all (even after just a few hours sleep) and felt fine for an early morning flight. Would definitely use again!

Steph (pictured left drinking and right with the tablets) said that the Yeti & The Fox tablets 'worked a treat' and that she felt great for an early morning flight, despite a boozy night at the Christmas party

HARRIET: Berroca

Rating:

Berroca is an effervescent tablet designed to be mixed in a glass of water.

It contains vitamin B1 and B2 to help naturally release the energy from the food you eat, and vitamin B5 which aids mental performance. It's used by many as a hangover cure as it hydrates and gets essential nutrients back in the body quickly.

Harriet said: I know people who swear by Berocca when they feel ill - but for me, it just wasn't enough to combat my hangover headache and sickness pains.

Even the fizzling of the tablet felt like too much to cope with, without even considering actually drinking the product itself.

My headache stayed in place, and it didn't stop me from being sick later in the day. For next I think flavour is the enemy when I'm hungover, and Berocca may just be too much for me.