Advertisement

Towns across NSW have been issued with the terrifying warning that it is now 'too late to leave' as firefighters endure one of the worst bushfire days yet.

Officials released several stark emergency warnings on Saturday afternoon, saying it is too late to escape and residents should 'seek shelter'.

The Currowan and Tianjara fires in the Shoalhaven were so powerful that they caused fire-generated thunderstorms which happen when rising, turbulent air draws in cooler air and causes lightning, high winds and sometimes rain - but not directly over the blazes.

It comes as two people are declared dead after a night of raging bushfires in South Australia, and hundreds of homes are on the brink of destruction.

As motorists load up their cars with presents to drive to friends and family on Saturday, officials have warned residents to cancel their plans.

NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian said families should avoid travel, as the 'unpredictable' conditions could see fires become 'very dangerous quickly'.

In a terrifying day for NSW, the fires at Gospers Mountain, Green Wattle Creek and Shoalhaven were all upgraded to emergency level - with residents told it was now too late to leave.

The raging infernos continue to close in on Sydney, with the Gospers Mountain fire now burning across 450,000 hectares

A burnt Christmas decoration lies on the ground (pictured) in front of a house recently destroyed by bushfires on the outskirts of the town of Bargo on Saturday

One of the six emergency warnings issued by the NSW Rural Fire Service on Saturday (pictured), telling residents it was now too late to escape

'Too late to leave' As of Saturday 2pm, the NSW Rural Fire Service said it was 'too late to leave' several areas, and advised residents to seek shelter in solid structures Balmoral Village

Yanderra

Wandandian and Jerrawangala

Mount Victoria

Hartley Vale

Bilpin to Kurrajong Heights

Bell, Clarence and Dargan

Christmas is likely to be cancelled for the hundreds of Australians forced to flee their homes, and others have been told not to risk travelling to see friends or family.

As fires rage across the country, officials are now considering closing the Princes Highway, cutting off communities across NSW and Victoria.

The Hume Highway was closed at lunchtime on Saturday between Campbell Town and Alpine, causing travel chaos for hundreds of motorists.

In a major blow for Christmas drivers, the Great Western Highway was closed at lunchtime on Saturday in both directions at Marrangaroo, west of Lithgow, between Reserve Road and Barton Avenue.

Roadtrippers preparing to travel to see friends or family this Christmas have been warned to delay their trips.

A terrifying map from the NSW Rural Fire Service (pictured) shows the incredible spread of the bushfires on Saturday

Residents in Bilpin (pictured) have been told to evacuate as the Gospers Mountain fire reaches emergency levels on Saturday

The town of Bilpin (pictured) has been on high alert as the Gospers Mountain fire rages on Saturday, and residents have now been told to leave

'If anyone was considering driving south of Nowra today please don't, Ms Berejiklian warned.

'We're concerned the three active fires in that region could suddenly become very dangerous quickly. When things are at catastrophic level it means unpredictable wind temperatures wind conditions and also active fires.

'Please do not do anything that's going to put you in harm's way. We know just a few days before Christmas family and friends are getting together.

'We know it might be stressful to change your plans. We would much rather everybody was safe and not in harm's way.'

Firefighters stare down a raging bushfire at Bilpin in NSW's Blue Mountains (pictured), next to a major road and dangerously close to homes

The Bilpin fire, on the outskirts of Sydney, is threatening homes and communities (pictured) as firefighters struggle to contain the blaze

NSW is in a state of emergency, as 101 fires rage across the state as of 7am Saturday, 50 of which are out of control and impossible to contain.

Fire officials also issued a grave warning that the escalating conditions may make it impossible for them to save those caught in the flames.

Scorching temperatures across Australia on Saturday will see some of the worst conditions yet for the country's exhausted firefighters.

Hundreds of fires blazing across NSW, Queensland, Victoria and Adelaide on Saturday (pictured) as scorching temperatures and high winds make them difficult to contain

A resident (pictured) uses a commercial watering machine to hose down his property as the Grose Valley Fire approaches Bilpin on Saturday

Firemen inspect a house recently destroyed by bushfires (pictured) on the outskirts of the town of Bargo on Saturday

Two residents died in South Australia, one in the Adelaide Hills as a fire ripped through the area, and another in a car crash in Lameroo.

23 firefighters had also been taken to hospital with injuries after battling more than 100 fires across the state.

Some sit less than 40 minutes from the centre of Adelaide.

South Australian Premier Steven Marshall told reporters: 'There has been a further death in the Charleston area in Adelaide.

'This is of course on top of the death which occurred in Lameroo. This was a result of a car crash in the Lameroo area which ignited the fire which was in that area yesterday."

'My fear is this is only the tip of the iceberg. It is going to a real scene of devastation, especially for those people in the Adelaide Hills who have been most affected to date.'

Smoke from a bushfire is seen near Gumeracha in the Adelaide Hills (picture) on Saturday

A firefighter is seen tackling a fire near Gumeracha in the Adelaide Hills (pictured) on Saturday

A Woodside resident battles a fire (pictured) as it crosses Ridge Road at Woodside in the Adelaide Hills in Adelaide on Friday

The Cudlee Creek fire destroys a plot of land at Woodside (pictured), just 40 minutes outside of Adelaide, on Friday

John Glatz, the former Oakbank Racing Club chairman, is in an induced coma in an intensive care unit, ABC reported.

He is thought to have suffered burns to 60 per cent of his body as he stayed behind in a desperate attempt to save his horses and home.

Blistering heat is escalating the fire risk with Adelaide reaching 43.9C following the hottest night on record.

Temperatures throughout the state soared to the high 40s, while Keith reached a scorching 49.2C.

A home lost to a bushfire (pictured) in Buxton as the Green Wattle Creek fire threatens homes in the south west of Sydney

A firefighter struggles to tackle a fire in the NSW town of Bargo on Friday evening, which is reported to have destroyed more than 50 homes

In NSW, there is a catastrophic fire danger for Greater Sydney, Illawarra, Shoalhaven and Southern Ranges, according to the RSF.

A grave warning was issued by NSW Rural Fire Service Deputy Commissioner Rob Rogers, with winds expected to pick up on Saturday morning and fan the flames towards people's homes.

'We'll do our best but don't rely on that,' he said.

'Don't expect a plane to be overhead straight away and don't expect a helicopter. Don't wait for a warning.

'Think about what you are going to do if you are in the path of the fires.'

Andrew O'Dwyer (left) and Geoffrey Keaton (right) were killed when their truck rolled off the road after hitting a fallen tree on Thursday night at Buxton, south of Sydney

Fire crews are still mourning the loss of two brave volunteers who died after battling the Green Wattle Creek fire on Thursday evening.

Andrew O'Dwyer, 36, a father-of-three and Geoffrey Keaton, 32, also a father, had courageously fought the fire as part of the Horsley Park RFS bridage.

On Saturday morning, the brigade went back out to tackle the blazing inferno, dedicating their battle to their fallen mates.

'In true Horsley Park spirit, our crew are heading out today as part of a Cumberland Zone Strike Team in memory of Geoff and Andrew,' the team wrote on its Facebook page.

'To all crews in the field today, stay safe and look after each other.'

The courageous Horsley Park Rural Fire Brigade go back to work less than 48 hours after the loss of two beloved team members

Members of the Horsley Park Rural Fire Service broke down in tears as they remembered the firefighters on Friday

A moving poem written by two 11 year-old girls from Riverwood, NSW, was shared by the NSW Rural Fire Service (pictured)

Fires swept areas of Lexton, Victoria on Friday (pictured) as conditions worsened thanks to high temperatures

Police have evacuated a number of people from Lexton after the community was threatened by a fire at Ampitheatre (pictured)

In Victoria, after days of blistering heat a cool change has brought dangerous dry lightning, increasing the fire danger for firefighters tackle more than 100 blazes across the state.

Fire Services Commissioner Craig Lapsley said the 21,000 hectare Grampians bushland fire was so intense it had 'created its own weather', triggering lightning and spot fires.

On Saturday morning, a 47-year-old man was charged with lighting three bushfires in the Roxburgh Park area on Friday night.

He has been charged with 11 charges including intentionally cause bush-fire and criminal damage by fire.

The charges also relate to a series of fires dating back to October this year.

Victoria Police evacuated a number of people from Lexton after it was threatened by the fire at Amphitheatre (pictured)

The three fires encircling Sydney (pictured) are expected to spread even wider by the end of Saturday

On Friday 110 fires were already burning, but another 33 started in the early hours of Saturday morning.

Around 27 of these are out of control.

Locals have been told it's too late to leave the Tambo Crossing and Ensay areas, as the huge fires in east Gippsland burns out of control.

'You are in danger and need to act immediately to survive. The safest option is to take shelter indoors immediately. It is too late to leave,' Victorian officials warned.

Over 200 additional trucks from the NSW Fire and Rescue Service and RFS have been allocated on Saturday and residents are being urged to be prepared to leave.

'If you're somewhere you have to go down a single road, you're in a very heavily vegetated area, then our message is think very carefully about staying in that area,' RFS deputy commissioner Rob Rogers said.

'And maybe, not necessarily evacuate, but go somewhere else in the heat, go to the beach, go to a shopping centre, go somewhere that's not bushfire prone.

'Firefighters will do their best to look after your house but we just want to get through the day with lives in tact.'

The Bargo fire (pictured) continued to burn overnight, after reducing the area to an 'apocalyptic wasteland'

Burnt-out property is seen following the Green Wattle Creek Fire in NSW on Friday (pictured). It's feared 40 homes have been lost in the bushfire that tore through the area

Strong winds are expected to build on Saturday afternoon and make their way up the NSW coast, impacting fires raging across the state.

'We are expecting a really gusty southerly to come through this afternoon," Jane Golding from the Bureau of Meteorology said.

'So that southerly will make challenging firefighting conditions, but also the wind gusts along the coast are looking like they will be approaching gale force.

'So quite dangerous, quite damaging, strong enough to bring large limbs of trees down, disrupt powerlines, things like that.'