His was left heartbroken last month after Angie Kent chose Carlin Sterritt over him during the season finale of The Bachelorette.

But it seems Timm Hanly isn't dwelling on the devastating moment too much - and on Friday night, was pictured cosying up to a gorgeous brunette during a nightclub appearance in Gosford, NSW.

The hunky 27-year-old fireproofer shared a video alongside the stunning female - named Sophia - on Instagram, before meeting and greeting the dozens of people on the club floor.

Move over, Angie! It seems Timm Hanly (left) isn't dwelling on his heartbreak too much - as on Friday night, he was pictured cosying up to a gorgeous brunette (right) during a nightclub appearance in Gosford, NSW

'You take it! Pulse Nightclub, what's good? Got my chaperone!' Timm said, as his companion blew a kiss to the camera.

The tattooed hunk previously said he was 'dating' since Angie broke his heart, but he he rarely shares images or videos with any females since the season wrapped up earlier this year.

Speaking shortly after his appearance on the show, Timm spoke out about his single status on The Kyle and Jackie O Show, saying: 'I've moved on, I'm in a good place at the moment. I'm happy.'

She's a stunner! Timm looked elated to be sat beside the smiling brunette, who shared the story to her own Instagram page

She's a stunner! Timm's mystery lady often shares jaw-dropping snaps on her social media page

'I've been keeping a super low profile,' Timm told radio hosts Kyle Sandilands and Jackie 'O' Henderson, adding that he had 'moved on' and was 'open to dating again'.

The long-haired larrikin even said he would be keen to become The Bachelor next year if Channel 10 gave him the opportunity.

During his parting words to Angie during the finale, Timm had cheekily suggested the blonde could contact him if things didn't work out between her and Carlin.

Rejection: Timm (right) was left heartbroken when Bachelorette Angie (left) told him she'd fallen in love with somebody else, despite being 'soulmates', during the season finale (above)

'We'll be mates forever now': Timm said while the pair are still in contact, he no longer wants to pursue a romantic relationship with Angie

It's over: Angie and Timm had a clear connection throughout the season, but he missed out on love at the final hurdle

'Don't cry. No, this won't be the end of us... I'll be sliding into the DMs. Hey. Just call me if you break up,' he joked.

However, Timm later clarified that he no longer wants to pursue a romantic relationship with Angie and instead said they will be 'mates forever.'

During the finale, Angie said that Timm was her 'soulmate' and made her 'laugh all the time', but wasn't quite able to put into words that she had a stronger connection with Carlin.

Timm took the news graciously as the former Gogglebox star let him down gently, despite the fact they'd shared intense chemistry throughout the season.

He consoled Angie as she struggled to explain her feelings and insisted that she accept his $2,500 diamond commitment ring as a gift to remember him by.