A Missouri man is accused of beating his girlfriend's eight-month-old son to death and biting off his nipples.

Sylvester Knighten Jr, 31, was charged on Thursday with abuse or neglect of a child resulting in death, abuse of a child with a serious physical injury and four additional counts of child abuse.

The boy's mother, 31-year-old Danesha Cannamore, was charged with two counts of child endangerment.

The couple was arrested on Wednesday when police responded to a call for an unresponsive infant at an apartment in Florissant. The child later died at a hospital.

Slyvester Knighten Jr (left), was charged with abuse or neglect of a child resulting in death, abuse of a child with a serious physical injury and four additional counts of child abuse. Danesha Cannamore, 31 (right), was charged with two counts of child endangerment

According to police, Knighten has been abused the baby as well as Cannamore's three older daughters, ages three, six and 10, for months.

However, things took a deadly turn on Tuesday evening when authorities say Knighten dropped the infant boy from a great distance, reported Fox 2 Now.

On Wednesday morning, officers responded to a call from the Stonebridge Townhomes on Stonebury Court around 11am on Wednesday about an unresponsive infant.

The baby was rushed to a local hospital, where he passed away.

Court documents reveal Knighten had hit the baby several times in the head and had bitten his neck and face.

In one of the most graphic descriptions, police say the boy's nipples were bitten off.

Florissant Chief of Police Timothy Fagan said that the infant punched in the head, bitten and dropped from great heights for several months.

'I've been doing this job for a very long time and this was one of, if not the worst, case that I've seen throughout the course of my career,' Fagan said, according to KMOV 4.

'This young man endured some things that no human should have to especially someone that is eight months old. There could be no more innocent of a person than an eight-month-old child.

'To see the things that were done to him was really difficult to deal with.'

Police responded to a call about an unresponsive infant made from the couple's apartment (pictured) in Florissant, Missouri, around 11am on Wednesday

Knighten (left) is accused of beating to death Cannamore's (right) eight-month-old son and biting his nipples off

Cannamore’s three daughters are currently in the custody of Missouri's Division of Family Services, police say.

The couple is currently being held at the St Louis County Jail. Knighten's bond is set at $1 million and Cannamore's bond is set at $500,000.

Knighten has past felony convictions in Missouri for drug possession and robbery, court documents show.

No attorney is listed for either of the pair in online court records.

The Florissant Police Department did not immediately respond to DailyMail.com's request for comment.