Hollywood legend and staunch 'Never Trumper' Robert De Niro has called for the president to be hit in the face with a bag of feculence.

De Niro's remarks, made in a interview with Michael Moore on the liberal film director's podcast, are just the latest explosive insult the actor has hurled at President Donald Trump.

'I'd like to see a bag of s**t right in his face. Hit him right in the face like that and let the picture go all over the world, De Niro said.

'And, that would be the most humiliating thing because he needs to be humiliated,' he added.

Robert De Niro (left) spoke with Michael Moore (right) this week on the liberal film director's podcast. He said he'd like to see Trump hit in the face with a bag of ordure

Trump has previously said that he is 'very much a germaphobe', and reportedly kicks aides out of the Oval Office for coughing or sneezing

De Niro said that whichever Democrat gets the presidential nomination to face off with Trump in 2020 has to 'confront him and put him in his place, because the people have to see that, to see him be humiliated.'

It came just days after De Niro lashed out at Trump's adult children during an appearance on The View.

De Niro’s appearance on the ABC show was primarily to promote his new Netflix movie The Irishman, but before the panel could even mention the new flick, the two-time Oscar winner was already hurling insults at Trump's family.

During the scathing monologue, De Niro voiced belief that the Trump family has behaved far worse than any of the mob families depicted in some of his most famous films, warning that if his children behaved the way Don Jr., Eric, and Ivanka have, he’d have ‘disowned them’ by now.

‘I don't want my kids to take this the wrong way, but if my kids did what these kids did, I wouldn't want to be related to them,’ father-of-six De Niro blasted, drawing audible gasps from the audience.

‘I would disown them. I'd have a serious talk with them,' he continued.

De Niro has been on the media circuit promoting his new film The Irishman - but has frequently quickly turned interviews toward his most cherished topic, bashing Trump

He later joked that it would be an ‘impossibility’ because his ‘kids are not like that at all, of course’, but later seemed to imply the he disagrees with his children over how ‘strongly’ he feels about the president.

De Niro’s comments come just days after an interview with New York Times Magazine in which he said he would never play Trump on-screen because there’s ‘nothing redeemable about him’ or his family.

‘There’s not one thing that I see in him or his family, not any redeeming qualities. They’re out on the take. It’s like a gangster family,’ he said.

Three of Trump’s adult children have either prominent roles in his 2020 reelection campaign or in his current administration.

Donald Trump Jr. and Eric, who both also serve as Trump Organization executives, are regularly seen on the campaign trail as surrogates. Ivanka, meanwhile, works as an unpaid White House adviser.

Earlier in his interview on The View, De Niro was asked by Whoopi Goldberg if he’d been following the impeachment proceedings against Trump to which De Niro confirmed that he has.

‘No matter what happens, which we know probably in the Senate he won't get convicted or whatever, but we have to do this,’ he told the panel. ‘We have to go through the motions.

'Symbolically, it means something. It's a taint on his presidency, more than a taint. It's a stain, one that he deeply deserves.’