Among the puzzles at Sajid Javid's unveiling of Andrew Bailey as the next governor of the Bank of England was the choice of HMRC for the announcement.

Was the Chancellor going to join the Corbyn tendency and announce swingeing taxes on billionaires?

No: it was meant to be a moment of immense symbolism.

Treasury officials recalled that it was in an elegant room in the old Treasury, now at HMRC, in which Gordon Brown announced an independent Bank of England in May 1997.

Sajid Javid's (pictured) choice of HMRC for the announcement that Andrew Bailey is to become the next governor of the Bank of England was meant to be a moment of immense symbolism

And present in the shadows on that day was Bailey, then private secretary to the then governor Eddie George.

The signalling was a bit lost on most of the media and officials present, as many were still at school 22 years ago.

But the present Chancellor does seem to have a thing about Bank independence, underlining its overarching importance at the Treasury yesterday, and in October at the International Monetary Fund.

It is no secret that many people felt that Bailey's chance of succeeding Carney had been scuppered by his current stewardship of the Financial Conduct Authority.

The last year has seen the FCA embarrassed by the problems of several peer-to-peer lenders, the mini-bond scandal at London Capital & Finance and most significantly (in this writer's case) the implosion of the investment empire of Neil Woodford.

The response to this inside the Treasury is to remind everyone of the reputational chaos at the FCA when Bailey was parachuted in by George Osborne in 2016.

Bailey also is praised for his forceful actions against payday lenders and clampdown on bank overdraft charges.

New boss: Andrew Bailey has been hired as the next Bank of England governor

He moves into the governor's suite in March. The short transition means he will have little time to clear the decks at the FCA before leaving.

If there is to be disciplinary action against former HBOS top brass, it is likely to be down to his successor.

Javid is thought to have been impressed by Bailey's overall strengths when he personally interviewed the FCA chief before the election.

It was noted he had experience of both monetary policy, from his long years inside the Bank, and impeccable financial stability credentials.

The Government has been at pains to point out that the Chancellor's choice had nothing to do with Brexit.

But it is known from some of those interviewed that, as the shortlist narrowed, attitudes to Brexit could not be ignored.

London School of Economics director Minouche Shafik was seen to be less than sound on this front.

Bailey, as a public servant, has been strictly neutral. He has worked closely with the Bank in making sure that regulatory equivalence with the EU in financial services can be achieved so that the City is not undermined by Brexit.

He is among those big City figures who argue that if doors close, new ones will open for a resilient Square Mile, with London at the heart of a financial technology hub.

Bailey will doubtless be questioned on this, as well as the unresolved question of the lack of diversity at the Bank, when he appears before the Treasury Select Committee early in the new year.

For the moment, the Chancellor is proposing no change in the Bank of England's central remit, which is to keep inflation below 2 per cent.

Bailey's predecessor Mark Carney had a relatively charmed life until it came to the EU referendum.

Unemployment fell much more sharply and further than expected when Carney arrived at the Bank, and the long period of low global interest rates has meant a very light hand on the tiller for the governor and Monetary Policy Committee.

It is to the credit of the Canadian that he avoided the trap fallen into by the European Central Bank. The Frankfurt-based ECB was late to quantitative easing and turned to Japanese-style negative interest rates in an effort to restart the eurozone.

Ahead of the General Election, and with the financial markets running scared of Jeremy Corbyn and a cliff-edge Brexit, it looked in the autumn as if the next move in interest rates might be up to defend sterling.

That no longer seems necessary, especially if the Boris Johnson government manages to fast-track a trade accord with Europe.

The economy is slowing and two members of the MPC now favour a rate cut to kick- start growth.

Bailey's first task could be to engineer lower borrowing costs. It is, after all, the governor's job to lead from the front.