Boris Johnson has vowed to fight against the 'noxious hatred' of anti-Semitism as he delivered his Chanukah message to Jewish people around the world.

The Prime Minister wished 'all our Jewish friends, neighbours and relatives, wherever you are in the world... a very happy Chanukah' in a video message published on Twitter.

He said that 'recent years have not been easy ones for British Jews' as he insisted that 'every decent person in this country' will be 'fighting by your side' against anti-Jewish racism.

Anti-Semitism was a prominent issue during the recent general election campaign.

Jeremy Corbyn was repeatedly criticised for his handling of Labour's anti-Semitism crisis with the party currently under formal investigation by the Equality and Human Rights Commission.

Boris Johnson said in a video message to mark the start of Chanukah that 'Britain would not be Britain without its Jewish community'

The Prime Minister vowed to fight against the 'noxious hatred' of anti-Semitism

Mr Johnson used his video message to promise to always stand in solidarity with the Jewish community.

He said: 'It is a time to celebrate not just the miracle of the oil but also your unique identity.

'To pop the Chanukah Menorah in the window and say to the world, just as Judah and his small band of poorly-equipped Maccabees said to Antiochus III and his mighty Greek army all those years ago, "I am Jewish and I am proud of it".

'And that is really important right now because I know that recent years have not been easy ones for British Jews.

'In the media, on the streets and particularly online, anti-Semites have, in alarming numbers, been emboldened to crawl out from under their rocks and begin, once again, to spread their brand of noxious hatred far and wide.

'But as you kindle the Chanukiah light tonight and in the nights to come, I want you to remember this.

'When the Maccabees drove the forces of darkness out of Jerusalem, they had to do so on their own.

'Today as Britain's Jews seek to drive back the darkness of resurgent anti-Semitism, you have every decent person in this country fighting by your side.

Mr Johnson said the Jewish community has the support of 'every decent person' in the fight against anti-Semitism

'Because Britain would not be Britain without its Jewish community. And we will stand with you and celebrate with you - at Chanukah and all year round.'

Mr Corbyn also published his own video message to mark the start of Chanukah.

He said: 'I would like to wish a happy Hanukkah to everyone celebrating in Britain and across the world.

'And it feels the right time to be thinking about the message of hope which is so central to the Hanukkah festival.'