Banks have been accused of going 'nowhere near far enough' to help cash-deprived communities after only providing a fraction of the funding needed for new ATMs.

A scheme set up in October allowing consumers to request a cash machine in their area has been inundated with around 40 applications per day, or 2,700 in total, since its launch.

But High Street banks and building societies, who are in charge of funding the scheme, have committed just £5million – enough to pay for around 200 of the 2,700 machines requested.

A scheme set up in October allowing consumers to request a cash machine in their area has been inundated with around 40 applications per day, or 2,700 in total, since its launch

Many rural communities have been left desperate for cash after banks axed branches, and prompted ATMs in towns and villages to disappear.

The number of free-to-use cash machines fell by 932 between September and October this year to 46,525.

At the start of the year there were 51,877 free cash machines in the UK, according to Link, which oversees a large part of the ATM network.

Banks have cut the fees paid to independent ATM operators when a customer uses a free cashpoint, causing many to switch to paid-for models.

The falling number of cashpoints is particularly worrying for elderly or vulnerable bank customers who do not use online banking, and for small businesses who rely on access to cash.

Former pensions minister Baroness Altmann said: 'We know there is huge demand for more ATMs and I hope this is just the very start of what the banks are planning to do to increase their availability, so people can have access to their money without the hassle and stress which has been caused by the removal of so many cash machines.

'With so many requests, the current funding proposal is going nowhere near far enough to meeting demand.

Former pensions minister Baroness Altmann said: 'We know there is huge demand for more ATMs'

'The banks need to make sure communities have access to their own money.'

Link launched its 'Request an ATM' scheme in October, with £1million provided by the UK's biggest banks and building societies.

It announced this week that these lenders – including Lloyds Bank, Barclays and Natwest owner Royal Bank of Scotland, among others – had added another £4million to the pot between them.

But with the installation of each ATM costing between £20,000 and £30,000, the £5million pledge will not go very far.

The 2,700 requests Link has received for cash machines came from around 1,500 separate districts, according to analysis from consumer group Which?

That suggests at least 1,500 new machines will be needed to meet demand, while requests are still flooding in.

Link said it was in the process of commissioning more than 20 ATMs, and was aiming to contact the people who had made the requests.

Mike Cherry, national chairman of the Federation of Small Businesses, said: 'It's good to see the banks stepping up and putting money towards the 'Request an ATM' scheme, which is so important to small firms.

'Clearly the money put up will only cover a small fraction of the requests that have been submitted. It's vital that every community that genuinely needs a free-to-use cash point has one in place. The banks should definitely not be seeing this as job done.

'It's vital that not only are ATMs accessible, but remain free to use. At a time when small firms are struggling on the High Street, every pound spent on charging ATMs means money not being spent on local and small firms.'