Just Eat bosses stuck to their guns yesterday and urged shareholders to back a merger with Takeaway.com instead of a rival bid.

The decision came after its two suitors sweetened their bids on Thursday in last-ditch efforts to woo the food delivery group.

Dutch group Takeaway’s final all-stock merger proposal valued Just Eat’s shares at 916p, a 25 per cent increase on its previous offer of around 731p, valuing the business at around £6.3billion.

Up for grabs: Dutch group Takeaway’s final all-stock merger proposal valued Just Eat’s shares at 916p, a 25 per cent increase on its previous, valuing the business at around £6.3bn

And Prosus, a Dutch-listed unit of South African conglomerate Naspers that began trying to gatecrash the Takeaway merger in November, raised its bid from just over £5billion to £5.5billion.

Takeaway has been Just Eat’s preferred suitor throughout.

The latter thinks it makes more sense for two food delivery companies to join forces, rather than being sold to Prosus, which wants to move into the market for the first time.

Helal Miah, investment research analyst at The Share Centre, said Just Eat ‘should be commended’ for sticking to its guns.

Takeaway needs support from 50 per cent of Just Eat shareholders to clinch the deal and already has the backing of investors with 46 per cent of shares.

Stock Watch - Beeks Financial Cloud Financial services computing group Beeks Financial Cloud surged after winning two major contracts. The firm, which provides cloud computing services for traders and hedge funds to complete trades more quickly, did not name the customers. But it bagged a contract worth £766million a year for three years with a financial markets technology group and a deal worth £1.1million over three years with an online payment provider. Shares jumped 20.6 per cent, or 18.5p, to 108.5p.

Just Eat shares shed 2.1 per cent, or 17p, to 795p last night.

On one of the last full trading days of the year, the London Stock Exchange’s two major indexes were little moved as trading began to wind down – despite several pieces of news that are likely to affect the City and the economy.

Third-quarter GDP growth was revised up to 0.4 per cent, from 0.3 per cent before; Financial Conduct Authority boss Andrew Bailey was confirmed as Mark Carney’s successor at the Bank of England; and MPs backed Boris Johnson’s plan to leave the EU on January 31.

The FTSE 100 only edged up 0.1 per cent, or 8.66 points, at 7582.48, while the FTSE 250 ended up a mere 0.04 per cent down, or 8.16 points, at 21674.3.

Medicine maker Astrazeneca made gains after it agreed to sell the commercial rights to two of its drugs to a French company, Juvise Pharmaceuticals, for £139million.

One of the drugs stops the production of oestrogen in women who have gone through the menopause in a bid to stop cancer cells developing, while the other drug, Casodex, is a prostate cancer treatment. Astra’s shares advanced 2.3 per cent, or 174p, to 7808p.

BT investors were unmoved by finance boss Simon Lowth’s purchase of around £650,000 worth of shares.

The telecoms firm’s stock fell 0.2 ,per cent or 0.3p, to 204.25p after BT said he scooped up 318,201 shares for 204p a pop on Thursday.

Often, when company directors buy a chunk of shares, it buoys the share price because it shows investors that management is optimistic about its prospects.

Waste management group Renewi is relieved the Dutch government has lifted a ban on the use of thermally-treated soil, which aims to clean soil of chemicals such as petrol so that it can be reused.

This means it could be able to sell soil made at a Renewi site in the Netherlands.

Shares in the group, which turns everyday rubbish into products like recycled paper and plastic, rocketed 24 per cent, or 6.5p, to 33.6p.

Over on AIM, London’s junior market, cosmetics maker Warpaint London tumbled 14.1 per cent, or 11.5p, to 70p after it told shareholders to brace for annual profits to come in at between £5.1million and £5.5million, down from previous guidance of £6million to £7million.

The make-up group said spending on its expansion in the US and hits from foreign exchange movements had contributed to the profit warning.

Former BBC radio executive Stuart Last’s appointment as chief executive of podcast maker Audioboom failed to excite shares as they remained flat at 207.5p.