Fortnum & Mason is expecting a record Christmas this year thanks to a 'Boris boost' for traditional fare.

Ewan Venters, chief executive of the luxury London grocer, said shoppers who had in previous years flirted with different types of food for their festive lunch have returned to old favourites, perhaps in reaction to the turmoil over the General Election and Brexit.

'In previous years people experimented with guinea fowl and ribs of beef. But this time there has been a big trend to turn back to turkey – there is an absolute obsession with having a bird with all the trimmings. It is to do with a Boris boost after what has been an interesting time politically, and a return to tradition.'

Boris boost: Ewan Venters claims Fortnum and Mason's fortunes have been helped by Boris Johnson's election victory

He added that Fortnum & Mason, founded more than 300 years ago and boasting window displays in the Piccadilly store that are one of the capital's big Christmas attractions, had seen high sales of other staples such as Christmas puddings and claret.

'I feel this will be a record year,' Venters said. 'With a few trading days to go, we are confident.'

Venters said that Fortnums' top of the range Imperial Hampers sold out two weeks ago, despite a £6,000 price tag.

Classic luxury: A Fortnum & Mason hamper

He said that Thursday was a record day for Fortnum's restaurants and bars, of which it owns ten in London, including at the Royal Exchange in the City and St Pancras Station.

A record 650 classic afternoon teas were sold in its Diamond Jubilee Tea Salon on Thursday. These cost £60 a head, rising to £70 with a glass of champagne.

The upmarket emporium is bucking the trend for retailers, which have been groaning under heavy business rates and competition from online operators.

Fortnums has just reported its seventh year of growth in a row, with sales up by 12 per cent to £138million and profits before tax up by more than 25 per cent to £12.1million.

It this year also defied the political unrest in Hong Kong, opening its first Asian store there.