Behati Prinsloo nailed the rocker chic look Sunday while attending a basketball game with friend Whitney Hartley Wagner in Los Angeles.

The 31-year-old Namibian model wore a white Rancid T-shirt along with black distressed jeans and thick black Dr Martens boots for a Los Angeles Lakers game at Staples Center.

She accessorized with a thick gold necklace, several bracelets, watch and earrings.

Courtside cuties: Behati Prinsloo nailed the rocker chic look Sunday while attending a basketball game with friend Whitney Hartley Wagner in Los Angeles

Behati, who has two daughters with rocker Adam Levine, 40, had her blonde hair pulled back into a ponytail and accentuated her natural beauty with just a hint of makeup.

Social media star Whitney looked effortlessly stylish in a purple V-neck sweater, distressed blue skinny jeans and black sandals with animal print.

Whitney had her brown hair pulled back into a high ponytail and showed her flawless complexion without makeup.

They sat courtside for the game between the Lakers and visiting Denver Nuggets.

Good times: The 31-year-old Namibian model and social media star Whitney had fun together

Selfie moment: Behati and Whitney took selfies courtside

Rocker chic: The wife of Adam Levine wore a Rancid T-shirt and leather jacket

Great seats: Behati and Whitney sat courtside in front-row seats

Hoops fan: The model has become a regular at Lakers games

The Nuggets won 128-104 as Lakers star LeBron James, 34, missed his first game of the season with a thoracic muscle strain.

James watched the game in street clothes.

The Lakers will host the Los Angeles Clippers on Christmas in a match-up of the top teams in West standings.

Street clothes: Lakers star LeBron James missed his first game of the season with a thoracic muscle strain

English model and actress Liberty Ross, 41, also watched the game in courtside seats with record producer Jimmy Iovine, 66.

She wore an all-black outfit including sweater, jeans and black-striped Nike trainers.

Interscope Records co-founder Jimmy kept it casual in a grey hoodie, ripped jeans and white sneakers.

Front row: English model and actress Liberty Ross, 41, also watched the game in courtside seats with record producer Jimmy Iovine, 66

Tough loss: The Lakers loss to the Denver Nuggets with Liberty and Jimmy in attendance

He accessorized with a rosary dangling from his neck along with bracelets and watch.

Red Hot Chili Peppers singer Anthony Kiedis, 57, also was spotted at the game along with bass player Flea, 57.

Tori Kelly, 27, sang the national anthem in an all-black outfit and enjoyed the game with husband André Murillo who matched her in black.

Rock star: Anthony Kiedis also caught the game at Staples Center

Bass player: Red Hot Chili Peppers bass player Flea also showed support5

Cute couple: Andre Murillo and Tori Kelly both wore all-black outfits

National anthem: Tori sang the national anthem before the game

Killed it: The singer nailed her rendition of the national antem

Andy Garcia, 63, also took in the game with a fresh shave and wearing glasses.

Fox Sports reporter Holly Sanders and Vegas Dave held hands as they were seen courtside.

Holly sizzled in black leather and was spotted kissing her new fiance.

LaDainian Tomlinson and Jimmy Goldstein also were spotted courtside.

Hollywood star: Andy Garcia also was spotted among the fans

Holding hands: Holly Sonders and new fiance Vegas Dave held hands

Tender moment: Vegas Dave and Holly kissed during a break in the action

Football star: LaDainian Tomlinson was sitting in the front-row for the game

Funky outfit: Jimmy Goldstein wore a funky all-grey ensemble