With Christmas just a few days away, it seems Twitter has chosen the most controversial toy that will be left under the tree this year: a plastic Fisher-Price charcuterie board that has caused uproar on the social networking site.

The $19.99 toy turned into an unlikely viral sensation this week when Twitter users began sharing images of it online, while branding the product, and the images used to market it, as 'bougie' and pretentious.

'This is the most bougie toy I’ve ever seen,' one person wrote. 'A f***ing toddler rocking a Fedora and serving salami to [another] one in a beret?

Controversy: A $19.99 Fisher-Price charcuterie board toy has sparked outrage online, with Twitter users blasting it for being 'bougie' and pretentious

Elitist? Some people joked that children do not want such an 'elitist' toy, with one user joking that only 'fancy a**' kids would play with it

Serve it up: The toy set, which is available on Amazon, features 15 different items, including a plush salami, a fake knife and plastic grapes

'The persnickety rep at @FisherPrice who thought this was a great idea should be demoted.'

Another user then chimed in: 'A #FisherPrice charcuterie tray? What the heck is happening to kids' toys?'

'For the child that has everything, Fisher-Price Toy Charcuterie Board,' a third Twitter user joked. 'I think I'll wait for the Caviar cart with blinis and the assorted accoutrement.'

Meanwhile another said: 'The new Fisher-Price charcuterie playset. The whitest toy for every girl and boy.'

One user simply shared a picture of the charcuterie board along with the words: 'What kind of fancy a** child...'

However while the toy prompted outrage and disgust from some disgruntled users, others quickly jumped to the defense of the charcuterie board, and Fisher-Price, with a few actually praising the brand for releasing a product that helps to expand kids' minds when it comes to food.

'Progress is when more bougie stuff is made available to more people,' one user pointed out, adding: 'Regress is when bougie stuff is made less accessible to fewer people.'

Debate: Some people spoke out to defend the toy set, with one user insisting that it's better for kids to learn about healthier foods than to play with fast food-themed products

Speaking out: Several Twitter user criticized the toy set, with one person joking that it is 'the whitest toy' on the market

One snapped back at the critics, writing: 'If you're outraged by a toy charcuterie board, you're elitist.'

Some people pointed out that having children play with fake charcuterie board foods, like grapes, salami, and brie, is a much better alternative to fast food-themed toys released by brands like McDonald's.

'Would it be better if the boy was wearing a [vest] and had a McDonald's play set?' one wrote. 'How dare we teach our children about different foods!'

Another said: 'Really not sure why this charcuterie board toy is getting so much flack. Making a good cheese tray is an excellent social/hosting skill.

'Several of my toys growing up were largely directed at me keeping house. I call this progress.

Others shared their plans to run out and buy the toy, with one insisting that the charcuterie board will be the 'only faux food toy option allowed in their house', while another said: 'I sincerely wish my nephew were old enough for this toy.'

Defense: Other people were full of praise for the toy, with several admitting that they would readily buy the set themselves

The toy, which is named the 'Snacks for Two' set, comes complete with 15 items, including a wood-and-marble effect board, a fake knife, plush salami, plastic grapes, and several crackers.

It also includes fabric napkins that feature the cutesy phrases, 'You're grape,' and 'Let it brie'.

In its Amazon listing, Fisher-Price says of the toy: 'The Fisher-Price Snacks for Two set lets your kiddo slice, share, and serve a delicious spread of pretend salami, cheese, crackers, and fruit… so, basically live their absolute best life.

'Little foodies will love indulging in fancy snacking fun with the Fisher-Price Snacks for Two role play set.

'This pretend charcuterie set is loaded with delicious hands-on play, including a soft salami kids can “slice,” pull-apart grapes (perfect for sharing!), "crackers" for stacking, stylish plates and real fabric napkins. Bon appétit, kiddo!'

The brand recommends the toy as being suitable for children aged three and up.