Advertisement

Dozens of towns and villages are being hit by flooding today following days of downpours - with conditions expected to dry up for a chilly Christmas Day before rain returns on Boxing Day.

The deluge is threatening to ruin the 'Manic Monday' Christmas getaway for many, with some stranded and others needing rescue by boat.

Currently there are 75 flood warnings in place, the Environment Agency said – meaning immediate action is needed. There were also 192 alerts for possible flooding, from Cornwall to East Yorkshire.

More rain is forecast for today and tomorrow, meaning the situation could get worse in already-swollen rivers, although the Met Office said it was unlikely to be as heavy as over the past few days. Meanwhile, a yellow thunder storm warning is now in place for Wales.

Christmas Day is set to be dry and sunny for much of the UK but temperatures will be chilly, plunging to a low of -4C in the Scottish Highlands - compared to an average in London of 9C. Showers are then set to return on Boxing Day, according to the Met Office.

The latest downpours prompted calls for the Prime Minister to act urgently, with Dan Jarvis, the mayor of the Sheffield city region, urging him to set up a 'Cobra for the north' to swing into action when floods hit.

Reggie the dog is rescued with a boat from flooding at the Little Venice Country Park and Marina in Maidstone this morning

Reggie was fitted with a lifejacket to keep him safe in case he went overboard - while others had to wade through the waters

Floodwaters surrounded the static homes in the Little Venice Country Park in Maidstone this morning - which thankfully had dry start to the day

A resident looks at the flooding at Yalding in Kent this morning after flood levels began to recede from the centre of the village

Showers are then set to return on Boxing Day, according to the Met Office. Yalding in Kent was benefitting from a dry morning today

Currently there are 75 flood warnings in place, the Environment Agency said – meaning immediate action is needed. Pictured is a man using a power washer to clean up after floods in Yalding this morning

The River Beult, which runs through the centre of Yalding, burst its banks after days of heavy rain, and was still flooding riverside properties this morning

Earlier in Yalding, (pictured today) holidaymakers had to be evacuated by boat after the overflowing Medway left the area under water

More rain is forecast for today and tomorrow, meaning the situation could get worse in already-swollen rivers. Pictured is Yalding today

Rivers across southern England, including the Medway and Mole in the South East and Stour and Severn in the South West have already burst their banks, leaving nearly 100 properties flooded.

At the Little Venice Caravan Park in Yalding, Kent, some holidaymakers had to be evacuated by boat after the overflowing Medway left the area under water.

Postal worker June Chapman made sure residents in the town got their last-minute Christmas cards as she braved the waters with her dog Poppy.

A post office in Hayle, Cornwall, had to relocate to a pub car park after it was inundated with three feet of water, while a post van ploughed on through floods in Sturminster Marshall, Dorset.

Others struggled to finish off the Christmas food shopping, with the car park of a Sainsbury’s in Tonbridge, Kent, flooded while a Tesco delivery van got stuck in rising waters in Alfriston, East Sussex.

Flooded roads have also affected parts of Brighton, Gatwick and Reading.

The Environment Agency said temporary flood defences had been erected in areas including Bradford-on-Avon in Wiltshire, Leatherhead and Guildford in Surrey and Canterbury in Kent.

In Surrey, homeowners were rallying round to help with a Christmas clean-up after a freak tornado damaged homes in Chertsey.

Astonishing video footage captured the moment debris including fence panels was thrown into the air and across the nearby M25. Miraculously, no one was injured.

The Highways Agency urged drivers to take extra care and check their routes, with 16 million car journeys expected today on what has been called Manic Monday.

Despite the warnings, the Met Office cautiously predicted that the weather is expected to improve. Steven Keates said: ‘The next couple of days offer a bit of a respite.’

A horse box is seen in floodwater at the Little Venice Country Park in Maidstone, Kent, amid heavy flooding today

The water inundated static homes inside the country park in Maidstone, causing devastation just days before Christmas

Yalding in Kent was particularly badly hit, with this photograph showing a heavily flooded street as the sun rose this morning

People were using boats to get around the Little Venice Country Park and Marina in Maidstone after it was inundated with water

Flood warnings remain in place across much of England today after days of heavy rain. Pictured in the Little Venice Country Park in Maidstone

Christmas Day is set to be dry and sunny for much of the UK but temperatures will be chilly, plunging to a low of -4C in the Scottish Highlands - compared to an average in London of 9C

Currently there are 75 flood warnings in place, the Environment Agency said – meaning immediate action is needed. There were also 192 alerts for possible flooding, from Cornwall to East Yorkshire. Pictured is a flood alert map (left - with warnings in red and alerts in amber) and a weather graphic (right)

Yalding Lees - a grassland nature reserve - was under several feet of water this morning, as this flooded sign shows

The area has suffered heavy rain for several days, causing the River Medway to burst its banks and flood the town and surrounding countryside

A flooded van in the driveway of a static home in the Little Venice Country Park and Marina in Maidstone, Kent

115 mobile homes were evacuated by motorboat from the Little Venice Country Park on Saturday following heavy rain

Yesterday there was flooding at Blackwater station in Hampshire, forcing rail travellers to take replacement buses until the line towards Reading re-opened.

Great Northern, Gatwick Express, Thameslink and Southern rail services were all disrupted into Sunday morning.

Later, passengers faced delays on a Great Western Railway service from Paddington to Penzance after the train was hit by waves as it travelled along the sea wall near Newton Abbot in Devon.

There were also urgent track repairs needed on the Midland Main Line at Kentish Town, although it was unclear if these were related to the weather.

At the caravan park in Kent, residents of 115 mobile homes were evacuated by motorboat after the River Medway burst its banks on Saturday.

Yesterday people were seen paddling down footpaths which had turned to canals, after fire crews used inflatable boats to reach the residents who were most at risk.

Kent Fire and Rescue Service says the caravan park is likely to be cut off for at least the next few days before the water subsides.

Two pedestrians walk on the pavement beside a car which is driving through high waters in Eynsford, Kent yesterday

Residents of Little Venice Caravan Park in Yalding, Kent, are rescued by motorboat from floodwaters after heavy rain

A man in Wellington boots leaves his house yesterday in East Sussex on a road which flooded when a nearby river burst its banks

Floodwater at Little Venice Caravan Park in Yalding which is expected to be cut off for at least the next few days

A tow truck passes a stranded car in floodwater near Yalding, Kent, yesterday after heavy rain which has disrupted the Christmas travel plans of millions

A man wearing a green helmet paddles along what is usually a footpath in Yalding, Kent, which was heavily affected by floods

People canoe down a road near the flooded caravan park in Yalding on a second day of heavy rain in much of the South

A bleak view of Yalding near the Little Venice caravan park which had to be evacuated when the river burst its banks

A car is stranded in floodwater near Yalding amid very high water levels following torrential rain in the south of England

Flooding in the centre of Eynsford yesterday brought the water levels even higher than usual

Floodwater at Little Venice Caravan Park in Yalding, Kent, after heavy rain which has disrupted Christmas travel plans

Residents in Chertsey and Shepperton in Surrey saw a tornado pass through the area damaging property and downing trees. This image shows trees strewn across the road in Bittams Lane, Chertsey

The River Darent in Eynsford, Kent has burst its banks yesterday due to the continued heavy rain. The riverside road is closed at one end near the ford bridge

Trees strewn across the road in Bittams Lane, Chertsey after a tornado hit the area yesterday morning

Drivers who break down in unknown places can find out where they are Drivers with the AA who break down in unknown locations will now be able to find out where they are within a 3m x 3m (10ft x 10ft) square. A company called what3words has divided the world into 3m x 3m squares, and assigned each one a three word identifier. This means that AA customers can now provide the call operator with their exact what3words address during a breakdown to help find them faster. The AA estimates there could be up to 143 million car journeys over this Christmas period, with around 10,000 breakdowns per day. what3words does not require an internet connection, so even if a customer breaks down in a very rural location with no visible landmarks, they will be able to find and describe the exact position of their stranded vehicle.