She plays feisty no-nonsense businesswoman Alya Nazir in the ITV soap.

But actress Sair Khan certainly let her hair down as she put on a very glamorous display while arriving at the Coronation Street Christmas Party, held in Harvey Nichols, Manchester on Friday.

The soap siren, 31, donned a plum faux-fur coat and a leather mini skirt as she joined I'm A Celebrity star Andrew Whyment and their fellow co-stars at the festive bash.

Stunning: Sair Khan cut a glamorous figure in a plum faux-fur coat and leather mini skirt at the Coronation Street Christmas Party, held in Harvey Nichols, Manchester on Friday

Sair teamed her skirt with a monochrome top and completed her party look with semi-sheer tights, black ankle boots and a black clutch bag.

She added a shimmering palette of make-up to her face, while her raven tresses were styled into chic waves.

Also out for a festive night on the town was her co-star and fellow I'm A Celebrity alumni Andrew, who looked thrilled to be back among his pals as they stepped out.

The actor, 38, could barely keep the smile off his face as he joined Corrie pals Alan Halsall and Colson Smith for the festive bash.

Delighted:The soap siren, 31, dressed to impress as she joined I'm A Celebrity star Andrew Whyment and their fellow co-stars at the festive bash

Party look: Sair teamed her skirt with a monochrome top and completed her party look with semi-sheer tights, black ankle boots and a black clutch bag

Gone were his red jungle shorts and beige shirt, with Andrew looking dapper in a smart black leather jacket.

The soap star teamed his jacket with a crisp white shirt, indigo jeans and tan shoes.

Andy appeared happy and relaxed as he chatted with his pals as they walked down the street.

Other Corrie stars also heading for the bash included Ellie Leach and Alexandra Mardell.

Jack P. Shepherd was also in attendance with his girlfriend Hanni Treweek.

Lovely: She added a shimmering palette of make-up to her face, while her raven tresses were styled into chic waves

Lads night out: The actor, 38, could barely keep the smile off his face as he joined Corrie pals Alan Halsall and Colson Smith for the festive bash

Alexandra (who plays Emma Brooker) looked stunning in an emerald green halterneck mini dress and cream faux-fur coat as she made her way into the party.

While Ellie Leach (Faye Windass) nailed monochrome chic in a billowing white shirt and black trousers.

Meanwhile, Jack jazzed things up in a black and gold shirt, while his partner Hanni echoed his look in a floor-length black and gold gown.

Andrew's outing comes shortly after he pledged his loyalty to the ITV soap during an appearance on Loose Women.

The star, who has starred on the show as Kirk Sutherland for 19 years, revealed he will always put Coronation Street first regardless of job offers - even if it were a record deal.

Looking good: Gone were his red jungle shorts and beige shirt, with Andrew looking dapper in a smart black leather jacket

Green Goddess: Alexandra (who plays Emma Brooker) looked stunning in an emerald green halterneck mini dress and cream faux-fur coat as she made her way into the party

Fashionista: While Ellie Leach (Faye Windass) nailed monochrome chic in a billowing white shirt and black trousers

Golden couple: Meanwhile, Jack jazzed things up in a black and gold shirt, while his partner Hanni echoed his look in a floor-length black and gold gown

Speaking about his Coronation Street career, he said: 'Oh no Corrie is my number one priority, when someone asked if I was going to be given a record deal I thought thanks but no thanks.

'When I went back to work yesterday and they lifted the barriers I felt I was back home'.

Andy confessed that while he was in the jungle he deeply missed his wife Nichola and their two kids.

He said: 'I was a blubbering mess in there, I missed Nick and the kids, it’s a studio but you are in the middle of the jungle, the hard bit is you don’t know what’s been shown what’s been said we have been together for 16 years, I talk to her everyday…

'She's a gem, she really is like I say I knew I’d miss her but when you're in there you don’t realise that you don’t talk to them'.

My number one: Speaking about his Coronation Street career, he said: 'Oh no Corrie is my number one priority, when someone asked if I was going to be given a record deal I thought thanks but no thanks'

A day before his appearance, Andy was delighted to return to his day job as Kirk Sutherland - and celebrated with a free haircut.

The runner-up was as pleased as punch as he heralded his return to the Cobbles with a quick trim - sharing a snap of himself in the barber's chair.

The star wrote: 'First day back @coronationstreet after @imacelebrity and got a free hair cut from @corriemakeup. Even better than the £6 I pay my barber really glad to be back doing my proper job.'