If the ability to keep your head when all about are losing theirs counts for anything, this Rangers title challenge will not be surrendered without the right kind of fight.

Their first victory over Hibernian at Easter Road since December 2017, achieved on a night when too many in green-and-white lost all control, proved as much.

Steven Gerrard’s men were three up by the time Ryan Porteous was red-carded for a home team who had offered little in the way of footballing aggression in the preceding 60 minutes.

Rangers closed the gap on leaders Celtic with a comfortable win over Hibernian on Friday

Ryan Kent opened the scoring for Steven Gerrard's side after just four minutes at Easter Road

MATCH FACTS Hibernian (4-1-2-1-2) : Marciano; Stevenson, Hanlon, Porteous, Naismith, Hallberg; Mallan (Slivka 46), Boyle; Allan (McGregor 64); Kamberi (Horgan 46), Doidge Subs not used: Bogdan, Jackson, Murray, Shaw Booked: Stevenson, Naismith, Boyle, Hallberg, Horgan Sent off: Ryan Porteous Goals: Manager: Jack Ross Rangers (4-3-3): McGregor; Tavernier, Goldson, Katic, Barisic; Arfield, Jack (Stewart 80), Kamara; Aribo (Ojo 75), Defoe, Kent (Barker 78) Subs not used: Edmundson, Foderingham, Halliday, Polster Booked: Goldson Goals: Kent (4), Aribo (8), Defoe (53) Manager: Steven Gerrard Referee: Nick Walsh Stadium: Easter Road Season at a glance Live tables

Fixtures

Scores Scottish Premiership

Premier League

Championship

League One

League Two

Scottish Premiership

Scottish Div 1

Scottish Div 2

Scottish Div 3

Ligue 1

Serie A

La Liga

Bundesliga





As missiles — including a glass bottle — rained down on the injured Borna Barisic as he lay prone by the touchline, a truly shameful scene guaranteed to produce repercussions, there was a danger that the whole occasion might be overshadowed by idiocy both on and off the park.

Especially when you add in a touchline fracas that had one member of each backroom staff dismissed.

But no lapses of discipline or failings of security should be allowed to detract from a sparking performance by Rangers, who ran out cosy winners — and may well have added to their tally.

Two up inside ten minutes thanks to Ryan Kent — via an Ofir Marciano howler — and Joe Aribo, they got their third from Jermain Defoe early in the second half.

Joe Aribo doubled the visitors' lead moments later as Rangers eased past the hosts

Veteran striker Jermain Defoe gave Rangers an unassailable lead after the half time interval

Defoe salutes the Rangers faithful as he added a third to the scoreline on Friday night

Before the madness descended, they’d proven their point. Namely, that they could play — and win —without top scorer Alfredo Morelos.

Rangers’ reliance on Morelos has been stated and restated to a point where some might begin to wonder if it’s overstated.

On a lot of nights, against a lot of teams, it’s fair to say that his absence would definitely be missed.

His ability to shoot — and score — from all angles, his willingness to battle with the biggest of defenders, the incessant danger he presents to any opponent even thinking of switching off for a millisecond, all combine to make him his team’s Most Valuable Player.

Against a Hibs side who have dipped after the new-gaffer bounce under Jack Ross, though, Gerrard’s men need not have worried.

Defoe was the obvious deputy for the suspended striker and, naturally, Gerrard had no hesitation about throwing the veteran into the fray from the off.

There would surely be space between the lines for a wise old head to locate and then utilise. Whether the legs were still quick enough to respond, well, it wouldn’t be long before we had our answer.

Both dugouts were involved in a heated altercation after Ryan Porteous fouled Borna Barisic

Fortunately for the visitors, there’s a self-destructive streak in this Hibs team that makes it easy for even the least threatening of teams to look dangerous.

Against a side with this many good players, the kind of mistake committed by Marciano with just four minutes on the clock was always going to be punished.

Dawdling on a pass back from Lewis Stevenson, the Israeli goalkeeper allowed Aribo to close him down and, when Marciano’s eventual attempted clearance spun off the winger and into the path of Kent, the former Liverpool man made no mistake with a first-time finish into the empty net from 20 yards.

If there was a touch of the self-inflicted about the first goal conceded, Hibs were simply torn asunder by the movement and intelligence of the Rangers attack for the second.

With just eight minutes on the clock, Ryan Jack played Aribo into the inside right channel, dragging left-back Stevenson with him.

Jack then sprinted into the empty space, got the return pass and delivered a perfect low cross — which Aribo sent flying beyond Marciano with a first-time left-foot strike.

Rangers captain James Tavernier went close to heading his side further ahead in the first half

Ross had received plenty of plaudits for, in his first weeks at the helm, making only minor changes to the alterations already put in place by interim gaffer Eddie May.

If ever there was a case for deciding to try something different though, it was being made here. In painful fashion.

The much-vaunted midfield diamond, deployed behind a front two, may have been intended to get Hibernian’s creative players on the ball in the final third.

But it gave Rangers far too much room on the flanks. Which is kind of where they get their most joy, right?

Honestly, the visitors could have been three or four up before the half-hour mark.

Kent hit the post with a shot that took a slight deflection, then played in Aribo with one of those delicious little passes that freezes defenders to the spot, only for Marciano to make partial amends for his earlier mistake with a fine leg save from the winger.

And, as an indication of their dominance, left-back Barisic delivered a teasing cross that right-back James Tavernier got on the end of, his header easily held by the keeper — but his free run to the edge of the six-yard box a clear sign of disarray in the home defence.

Friday night's result makes it 13 Scottish Premiership games unbeaten for the Scottish side

What did Hibs offer in response? Little fleeting glimpses of threat. Florian Kamberi hitting the side netting. Martin Boyle forcing a save from a fully-stretched Allan McGregor.

A Stevie Mallan free-kick that was never in danger of hitting the target from the moment it left his boot.

Ross made two changes at half-time, Vykintas Slivka and Daryl Horgan coming on for Mallan and Kamberi, switching Hibs to a more solid-looking 4-2-3-1. Which, in retrospect, might have been the way to go from the outset.

Horgan almost made an immediate impact with a right-footed cross from the left wing that very nearly crept in at the near post.

While there was more energy and solidity about Hibs, they were still giving up chances; Aribo took too long over a one-on-one with Marciano and allowed Stevenson to get back and make a challenge with 52 minutes gone.

Rangers fans were in the Christmas spirit as they watched their side romp to victory

It was hardly a shock, then, when Rangers extended their lead just a minute later. Nor could anyone who has followed Defoe be surprised by the nature of his finish.

A Scott Arfield header into he box found the English striker having moved just off the shoulder of Jason Naismith, who was then turned with ease before Defoe drilled a low right-footed shot beyond Marciano at his near post.

Some Hibs fans greeted the loss of a third goal exactly as they had done for the second — by throwing missiles at the celebration Rangers players.

There will be action against the Easter Road club for that. And, no, it doesn’t matter if it was ‘only’ a drinks carton that was thrown.

For many of the home faithful, retreat was the preferred response; hundreds, if not thousands, streamed for the exits with almost 35 minutes still to play.

They made the right decision. Because things quickly turned very, very ugly. Ryan Porteous is prone to moments of idiocy and his challenge on Barisic with an hour gone was worthy of a red card.

What followed, the Rangers full-back being pelted with missiles as he lay injured on the turf, was an utter disgrace.

The flair-up on the touchline that ended with one member of each coaching staff — John Potter for Hibs and Tom Culshaw for Rangers — being red-carded did little to quell the fury of those inside.

The closing half hour was, thankfully, free from much beyond the odd shoulder charge and crossed word.

Small mercies for the stewards and police. And a cause of relief, too, to a Rangers team who had done their job, cut the lead at the top of the table to two points — and escaped from a now-notorious venue with life and limb intact.