He lifted the Glitterball trophy a week ago, after three gruelling months of Strictly Come Dancing training.

And Kelvin Fletcher has kept his promise to immerse himself in family time following his intense time at work, treating his wife Eliza Marsland and their children Marnie, three, and Milo, one, to a family break in Dubai.

The ex Emmerdale star has been sharing photos of the sunny holiday on his Instagram page, as he indulges his love of high-adrenaline activities mixed with family pool days.

Time out: Strictly winner Kelvin Fletcher is enjoying some family time, treating his wife Eliza Marsland and their children Marnie, three, and Milo, one, to a family break in Dubai

Kelvin looked on cloud nine on Saturday as the family spent the day at the Wild Wadi Water Park.

The beaming soap star posed with his daughter Marnie by the pool, with his little girl giving him a sweet kiss on the cheek.

Kelvin also shared a family selfie from the park, pulling faces with Marnie while his bikini-clad wife stuck her tongue out for a giggling Milo.

Joking that he wasn't exactly enjoying a relaxing post-Strictly break, Kelvin captioned the snaps: 'Not a moments rest but who cares!'

Dad: The ex Emmerdale star has been sharing photos of the sunny holiday on his Instagram, with one showing his sweet daughter Marnie giving him a kiss on the cheek by the pool

The family headed from the water park to the desert, where Kelvin posed for a stunning shot, leaping into the air. 'It’s not quite the #strictly dance floor......' he quipped in the caption.

Kelvin also found time to get back into his passion for cars. The actor, who has competed in the British GT Championship, posed for a jaw-dropping snap, flaunting his muscles as he hung horizontally from the door of a dune buggy.

Speaking to This Morning the Monday after his Strictly win, Kelvin admitted his tough schedule had taken its toll: 'My day was a 5am start at the gym but the last couple of weeks it was too much so I had to just concentrate solely on dancing,' he said.

Still got it! The family headed from the water park to the desert, where Kelvin posed for a stunning shot, leaping into the air. 'It’s not quite the #strictly dance floor......' he quipped

'These brilliant routines that Oti made that I thought was out of my reach, Monday I thought, "no I can’t do it" and then Thursday I got it.'

The all-encompassing nature of the BBC show meant that Kelvin missed out on some family events including missing his wedding anniversary and his son's first birthday.

He said: 'I missed those occasions but for any working parent there’s sacrifices, it was amazing job and I’m very gifted to do it.

Skills: The actor, who has competed in the British GT Championship, also posed for a jaw-dropping snap, flaunting his muscles as he hung horizontally from the door of a dune buggy

'She was there to see us there to lift the trophy and now it’s about Christmas and indulging with the family.'

Kelvin made it to the final with former EastEnders star Emma Barton and TV presenter Karim Zeroual and has said his time on Strictly was one of the best experiences of his life.

He said: 'It’s just been I mean it was the most incredible experience and that’s the absolute icing on the cake to have made the final was amazing and Emma and Karim were deserving winners.'

Champions: Kelvin made it to the final with Emma Barton and Karim Zeroual and has said his time on Strictly was one of the best experiences of his life