She's an Academy Award winning actress with equal parts beauty and talent.

But Charlize Theron pared down her often glamorous look considerably in some casual street wear in Los Angeles, California on Friday, in a black beanie cap with a large pom-pom and little to no makeup.

The South African-born actress, 44, completed her all black ensemble with a simple sweatshirt and Adidas track pants, along with New Balance trainers sans socks.

Lady in black: Charlize Theron pared down her often glamorous look in some casual street wear in Los Angeles on Friday, in a black beanie with a large pom-pom and little to no makeup

The Monster star even had on a dark manicure as she stood on a street corner.

The actress and producer has a new film hitting theaters this weekend titled Bombshell, in which she plays famed newscaster Megyn Kelly.

Theron stars alongside Nicole Kidman, who portrays Gretchen Carlson, and Margot Robbie in a fictional role.

Charlize also served as producer on the film, which recounts the fall of Fox News head Roger Ailes due to toxic and abusive behavior.

Pensive: The South African-born actress completed her all black ensemble with a simple sweatshirt and Adidas track pants, along with New Balance trainers sans socks

Street style: The actress and producer has a new film hitting theaters this weekend, titled Bombshell, in which she plays famed newscaster Megyn Kelly

Charlize was in New York City earlier this week in support of the film, where among other things she visited the Late Show with Stephen Colbert to discuss the movie.

She also took part in an interview with NPR, where certain shocking details from her family history emerged.

The actress was just 15 years old when her dad Charles stormed into the family's home near Johannesburg, South Africa and fired several times through a bedroom door, with the Charlize and her mother on the other side.

There's that glamazon: Charlize was in New York City earlier this week in support of the film

During the frightening drama, her mother Gerda grabbed her own handgun, opened fire in retaliation, and killed her husband.

After an investigation, the 1991 shooting was legally determined to have been self-defense, and Theron's mother did not face any charges.

Theron went on to reveal that her father had a long history of being an unpredictable drunk, and she also made a point of asserting that she's not ashamed of talking about the tragic event in public.

Good trio: Theron stars alongside Nicole Kidman, who portrays Gretchen Carlson, and Margot Robbie in a fictional role. Charlize also served as producer on the film, which recounts the fall of Fox News head Roger Ailes due to toxic and abusive behavior

On the job: Theron, left, as Megyn Kelly with co-star Liv Hewson

Also during her NPR interview, Charlize talked more about being sexually harassed by a 'very famous' movie director in 1994.

She has named the man before, but the interview seems to have been scrubbed from the internet with Theron even admitting it cannot be dug up at this point.

In her new interview, she said she felt shame over the way she handled the man's advances.

He asked her to come to his home on a Saturday night and when he opened the door he was in silk pajamas. He offered her a drink and rubbed her knee, she said.

Peek a boo: Among other things, the actress visited the Late Show with Stephen Colbert to discuss the movie

'I was just starting out; I didn’t know the ins and outs, and said to myself as I was driving there at 9pm … Maybe that’s how they do it in the movie industry?'

Theron added: 'You don’t [know what to do] … if you haven’t experienced it, it’s a very difficult thing to wrap your head around. I wasn’t even fully convinced this was sexual harassment until later in my career.'

Eight years later he offered her a role and she met with him because she thought she could confront him.

'I was going to have the moment I didn’t have with him,' she told NPR.

But he didn't want to talk it over. '[He] just moved on from the conversation, he just didn’t want to address it. At that moment, it was clear to me that it wasn’t his first time and that he had been doing this before and that other women had called him out. His way of handling it was just to talk over it and about the project.'

Bombshell hits cinemas on Friday. Theron is nominated for both a Golden Globe and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Lead Actress for her role in the film.