She is known for her sensational style.

And Kelly Brook got into the festive spirit as she left Global Radio Studios in London after presenting her final Heart Radio Drive Show of the year on Friday.

The television personality, 40, caught the eye in a giant glittery bow hairband, which she teamed with a red snowflake jumper.

Christmas: Kelly Brook got into the festive spirit as she left Global Radio Studios in London after presenting her final Heart Radio Drive Show of the year on Friday

Kelly complemented her Christmas look with tailored grey checked trousers and wrapped-up in a chic pea coat.

The model added extra pizzazz to her outfit with gold peep toe heels and amped up the glamour with a black Gucci bag.

The brunette beauty finished off the look with silver earrings and a bronzed palette of make-up.

Feeling festive: The television personality, 40, caught the eye in a giant glittery bow hairband, which she teamed with a red snowflake jumper

Stunning: Kelly complemented her Christmas look with tailored grey checked trousers and wrapped-up in a chic pea coat

Marking the final Drive Show of 2019, Kelly took to Instagram and wrote: 'Last Drive Show of the Year!!! Back on Heart Breakfast Tomorrow and Next week with @jkjasonking @thisisheart.'

Speaking in February, Kelly admitted her media career has been given a second chance by Heart Radio following various forays into acting, modelling and presenting.

'It's been really lovely because I feel like I have been given another lifeline,' she told Hello!

Strutting her stuff: The model added extra pizzazz to her outfit with gold peep toe heels and amped up the glamour with a black Gucci bag

'You think: "Oh, that's it, maybe I had my go and it's someone else's turn." When an opportunity like this comes along, all of a sudden you've got another shot.'

'I think it’s given me a new lease of life. To be doing something I love, making people feel good, is just the best. It’s the best job I could ever want. I never want it to end.'

Kelly also celebrated her 40th birthday last month and to mark the occasion her Heart radio colleagues treated her to a steamy topless performance from the Magic Mike Live boys, who showered her with pink money.

Gorgeous: The brunette beauty finished off the look with silver earrings and a bronzed palette of make-up

She looked thrilled after being surprised by the hunky men while presenting her regular slot, with the guys treating her to a personal show.

Speaking after the surprise, she said: 'This is like the best birthday I’ve ever had in my whole entire life.

'I was like 60 per cent thrilled and 40 per cent mortified. It’s been absolutely insane, I’m just recovering actually.'