Advertisement

Lauren Silverman looked incredible as she hit the beach for her annual trip to Barbados with beau Simon Cowell and their family.

The 42-year-old flaunted her enviable frame in a chic one-shoulder swimsuit as she enjoyed a fun day out with Simon, their five-year-old son Eric and her son Adam, 13, who she shares with her ex Andrew.

Cutting an effortlessly stylish figure on the sand, Lauren watched on as X Factor judge Simon, 60, hit the water with their son Eric and took a jet-ski for a spin, after getting up close and personal with a monkey on the beach.

Beach babe: Lauren Silverman, 42, looked incredible as she hit the beach for her annual trip to Barbados with beau Simon Cowell and their family on Friday

Making the most of the sunnier climes overseas, Lauren slipped into her stylish beach attire that perfectly framed her figure and boasted a buckle at the strap.

She teamed her classic one-piece with a pair of statement shades and wore her dark tresses back from her face in a loose low ponytail.

The mum-of-two sported minimal make-up for her day at the beach and accentuated her already flawless complexion with bronzed cheekbones and a slick of natural gloss on her lips.

Clutching onto a life jacket in one hand, Lauren made sure to give Simon a run for his money, as she too hopped on a jet ski and enjoyed a thrilling ride on the water.

You OK there, Simon? Her long-term partner, Simon, meanwhile, was seen getting to grips with a monkey on the beach

Family fun day: Simon Cowell, 60, was later seen enjoying a jet-ski ride with the couple's five-year-old son Eric

Sun-seekers: Lauren was seen heading into the water with her 13-year-old son Adam, whom she shares with her ex-partner Andrew Silverman

Incredible: Lauren's swimwear made sure to highlight her enviable frame, with the beauty choosing a statement pair of shades as her beach accessory

Stylish: Looking effortlessly stylish, Lauren wore her dark tresses pinned back from her face in a loose, low ponytail

Stunning: She flaunted her natural beauty by favouring a minimal make-up look that included bronzed cheekbones and a slick of natural lipgloss

Simon, meanwhile, was seen displaying his slimmed-down physique once more, as he stepped out shirtless while sporting a pair of light blue swimming shorts.

The music mogul has lost a considerable amount of weight in recent months after embarking on a strict vegan diet in a bid to live a healthier lifestyle.

He joined son Eric on a jet-ski and kept a watchful eye over his mini-me, as little Eric sat up front sporting a pair of goggles on his head.

Anything you can do: Lauren was seen preparing to take to the water and give Simon a run for his money on her own jet-ski

Beaming: Lauren looked simply stunning as she flashed a smile while making her way into the sea

Incredible! The beauty stunned as she showcased her incredible frame while sat on the jet-ski

She's a natural! Lauren looked nothing but cool as she started up her jet-ski, joining Simon and Eric in the water

Bond Girl in training? Lauren seemed to channel her inner Bond girl as she made her way back up onto the beach

Showing off her bling: Lauren's swimsuit came with a gold buckle that expertly matched the watch on her wrist

Cool mum: Lauren proved she wasn't afraid to get stuck into the beach activities

Mind your step: Lauren appeared caution as she edged out into the water

That's the money shot! Simon's long-term partner looked effortless as she cruised around the shore

Simon, who whisks his family off to Barbados every year over the Christmas period, was on hand to direct the jet-ski, with Eric no doubt enjoying every minute of the thrilling ride.

He has shed more than 20Ibs in weight thanks to a fastidious vegan diet, which he changed in order to keep up with young son Eric.

He told The Ellen DeGeneres Show: 'I went to see this doctor in London. We did some tests. And then a month later he said, "You have the worst diet I've ever met from any patient."

Slimmed down: Simon displayed his leaner physique on the beach, following his huge weight loss over recent months

All smiles: Simon couldn't hide his delight as he stepped out for a day of fun with his loved ones on the beach

Taking a break: Simon has headed to the Caribbean for his annual Christmas getaway with his family

Transformation: Simon has shed 20lbs since switching to a vegan diet, with the change in lifestyle being sparked by his son Eric - Simon dubbed his diet the 'Eric Cowell diet' because the youngster loves raw vegetables

Bonding: Simon enjoyed some father and son time with little Eric out on the water

Helping hand: Simon enlisted the help of two locals to help him onto the jet-ski as son Eric looked on

Adorable: Eric looked nothing short of cute while sporting a pair of goggles on his head for the ride, as Simon opted for a pair of mirrored blue sunglasses

Having a ball: The duo certainly looked like they were having fun as they sped across the water

'So I went, "Okay, out of the smoking, the drinking, and diet, what do I have to drop?" And he said, "The diet." So I said, "I'm in!"

'It was easier than I thought, and part of the reason I did it was because of Eric. I realised if I didn't sort myself out physically, I wouldn't be able to catch up with him.

'Because the minute he gets up to the minute he goes to sleep... their energy, you forget, at five years old, is phenomenal.'

Simon previously said he'd named his diet the Eric Cowell diet after his son, because the youngster loves to munch on raw vegetables.

Bronzed: Lauren was seen soaking up the sun and topping up her tan on the family's beach stroll

Lovely: The beauty no doubt turned heads with her glamorous appearance on the Caribbean island

Relaxed: Simon appeared to be enjoying a much-needed break from his busy schedule

Loving it: The star was seen toying with photographers, as he flashed a smile and gave a thumbs up

Meet and greet: The talent judge was seen interacting with fans, who stopped him on the beach

Content: Simon seemed at ease as he kicked back on the beach ahead of Christmas

In his element: Simon couldn't resist indulging in the resort's watersports on offer

He said: 'It's like the Eric diet because he actually, apart from ice cream, he actually likes water. I mean, who likes water? And his raw vegetables. So I'm on like, the Eric Cowell diet.'

Simon's new physique has impressed his celebrity pals, with his close friend and fellow Britain's Got Talent judge David Walliams joking the star has become a 'skinny b***h'.

Taking to Twitter to share his thoughts on Simon's transformation, David tweeted a picture of his pal shirtless on the beach and said: 'Skinny b***h,' before following his post up with another of Simon that read: 'Vegan diet my a**e. '

Amanda Holden, who also sits on the panel with Simon for Britain's Got Talent, has also spoken out about his weight loss and claimed it was the result of Simon switching to 'skinny lager'.

Made a new pal? When he wasn't out on the water, Simon was seen getting to know a monkey on the beach

Unsure: Simon's face was a picture as the monkey made himself very at home on his shoulders

Animal lover: The longer the monkey sat on Simon, the more he seemed to come around to his new found company

Good sport: Simon seemed to get used to having the animal perched on him

Caught his eye: The animal seemed to turn Simon's head on the beach

Speaking on Good Morning Britain to host Piers Morgan, she said: 'He’s drinking lightweight beers, that’s the secret. And I tasted it because I thought it was gonna taste, like, naff. Actually it’s quite decent. You could take a tip from him!'

Meanwhile, Simon also spoke about cutting down on alcohol earlier this year, he told Extra: 'I went to see this guy who’s very well-known. And he said to me, after doing some blood work, "You can’t have red meat, dairy, sugar, bread or gluten."

'I’m thinking, "What about alcohol?" And he said, "Maybe not quite as much as you had before." And I did it and I stuck to it and it’s easy.'

Causing a stir: Simon's trip away comes as his new physique seems to be causing a stir among his celebrity pals

Hot topic: Simon proved to be the hot topic of conversation, as his friend David Walliams joked on Twitter that he is now a 'skinny b***h'

Hilarious: In another tweet, David jokingly took aim at Simon's new lifestyle, as he posted: 'Vegan diet my a**e'

Having their say: Amanda Holden has also spoken out about Simon's new look and credited his weight loss to 'skinny lager'

Binning the booze: Simon has also spoken out about his alcohol intake and said he has considerably reduced the amount of drink he has and claims doing so has been 'easy'

Making changes: Simon said he was advised to cut down on alcohol, as well as red meat and gluten

Keeping Up With... Eric: Simon said he felt the need to change his lifestyle as he realised he wouldn't be able to keep up with Eric, unless he made substantial changes to benefit his health

Following their day of water sports, Simon and his family were seen winding down on the beach, with Lauren and Eric taking their dog for a walk.

Lauren covered up in a cool palm-tree printed wrap dress she left open and donned a stylish straw fedora hat on her head, after untying her locks and leaving them to fall down past her shoulders.

The brunette beauty quenched her thirst on a bottle of water, while Eric seemed thrilled to be left in charge of the family's pet pup.

Chill time: Following their day of water sports, Simon and his family were seen winding down on the beach, with Lauren and Eric taking their dog for a walk

So chic: The beauty covered up with a palm-tree printed wrap dress she left open and donned a fedora hat

Perfect day: Lauren seemed to enjoy her late afternoon dog walk as the sun set

Family affair: It seems the Cowell's family dogs didn't miss out on the trip to Barbados

Eric is Simon's only child and he has credited his son for changing his life for the better, ever since he was born back in 2014.

Speaking on ITV's Lorraine in September, Simon explained the impact Eric has had on him and said: 'I see my life through his eyes now and it’s much more simple and it’s much more fun.

'When you become a dad, something clicks in you. it’s all about them... You become very protective and importantly, part of the reason I changed everything in my life.'

Cute: Eric was on hand to give his mum a helping hand with their pet pooches

In his element: Eric was seen running up and down the beach with the dogs