Christmas came early for Lana Del Rey fans as she gifted the world a new music video off her latest album on Friday.

The 14-minute release is a three-in-one, featuring the album's title track Norman F***ing Rockwell, followed by Bartender and Happiness Is A Butterfly.

It was edited by the Summertime Sadness hitmaker and directed by her little sister Chuck Grant, a photographer whose work has appeared in Rolling Stone and Vanity Fair.

Wintertime happiness: Lana Del Rey gifted the world a 14-minute music video for her latest album Norman F***cking Rockwell on Friday

For the Norman Rockwell section, the 34-year-old songstress croons alone by the pool and lounges in a hammock, looking melancholy yet resigned as she sings about a man she loves.

She's styled in all-denim getup and round oversize sunglasses that reflect back different video clips.

The Bartender section features Lana traipsing aimlessly around Laurel Canyon with a gorgeous group of friends, hitting on themes she has returned to throughout her career with lyrics like 'All the ladies of the canyon / Wearing black to the house parties...But sometimes girls just want to have fun / The poetry inside of me is warm like a gun.'

'Color me blue': For the Norman Rockwell section, the 34-year-old songstress croons alone by the pool and lounges in a hammock, looking melancholy yet resigned as she sings about a man she loves

Ladies of the Canyon: The Bartender section features Lana traipsing aimlessly around Laurel Canyon with a gorgeous group of friends, hitting on themes she has returned to throughout her career

Nostalgia: The video channels a classic Lana aesthetic, with a grainy texture and old-timey Americana vibes for which the singer-songwriter is famous

The video channels a classic Lana aesthetic, with a grainy texture and old-timey Americana vibes for which the singer-songwriter is famous.

The highly anticipated Norman F***ing Rockwell, which hit stands in August of this year, debuted at No. 1 on the UK album charts.

The release is the sixth studio album from the 34-year-old songstress, and the fourth to hit No. 1.

Lana performs onstage as she tours her latest album at Rogers Arena in Vancouver on September 30

Speaking to Harper's Bazaar earlier this year, Lana shared what's different about the new album.

'One thing I like about it is it has a really organic, I don't want to say an acoustic feel, but it has a kind of old L.A.—a little bit of, I don't want to say rock, but some of those rock undertones on the last songs on the record,' the Manhattan native said.

'It's like a mood album. There's not really any big bangers on it, it's just day-in-the-life mood music, which is some of my favorite stuff to drive to and listen to.'

Lana has also announced plans to release a freestyle poetry album, set to drop Jan. 4.