She shared snaps of herself and her whole family in matching seasonal pajamas as they stood by their Christmas tree on Thursday.

Tori Spelling captioned it: 'Having a “snow” ball putting the finishing touches on our amazing @kingofchristmas tree in our chic and cozy holiday family pjs by @santandabel xoxo'

And the 46-year-old reality star was immediately called out by trolls for using her husband Dean McDermott, 53, and their kids - Liam, 12, Stella, 11, Hattie, eight, Finn, seven, and Beau, two - to advertise the PJs AND the tree on Instagram.

Scroll down for video

Christmas fun: Tori Spelling posted this snap captioned, ' Having a “snow” ball putting the finishing touches on our amazing @kingofchristmas tree in our chic and cozy holiday family pjs by @santandabel xoxo' But followers objected to her using her kids to advertise PJs

One person wrote: 'Is there anything this family will not do or wear for money! Wow, these poor kids.

On Friday, Tori hit back: 'Just FYI we were not paid for anything in this picture. No exchange of $ at all. We are just complete fans of these products.'

Another person commented: 'I wonder if your kids get tired of being directed and produced for these paid promotions.'

Tori responded: 'The answer is no bc we weren’t paid for anything in this picture. This is our tree and these are their jammies. Is that ok with you?'

Trolls speak out: But Tori retorted that the family had not been paid to advertise the PJs

A third troll said 'It is sad how you use your children to promote yourself and make money.

'Do what you gotta do but make the kids make their decisions when they are old enough to.”

Tori clapped back: 'Didn’t make any $ from this picture and not promoting anything aside from sharing our actual lives. This is us. Please make informed judgements.'

Hair ornament: She introduced her followers to one of her two bearded dragons

Backyard farm: Tori revealed it includes, '3 pigs, 2 dogs, 2 bearded dragons, 1 guinea pig and chickens. Lots and lots of chickens'

Meanwhile. Tori also shared an Instagram video of herself wearing 'on-the-farm'-style dungarees and a red and white check shirt as she sat in her living room surrounded by her brood.

Her backyard farm includes, '3 pigs, 2 dogs, 2 bearded dragons, 1 guinea pig and chickens. Lots and lots of chickens.'

In fact one of her bearded dragons was sitting on her blonde hair.

She captioned it: 'Saying I’m a big animal lover would be a bit of an understatement!'