Rebecca Judd moved into her $7.3million Melbourne mansion in September, after nine months of extensive renovations.

And the 36-year-old has revealed that she and husband Chris Judd, also 36, will host her family Christmas at the luxurious property this year.

Speaking to The Daily Telegraph, the AFL WAG revealed: 'This Christmas I'm looking forward to spending some good quality time with my family.'

Family: Rebecca Judd revealed on Tuesday that she will host the family Christmas at her lavish $7.3million Melbourne mansion (pictured). Pictured: Bec, husband Chris Judd and their children, son Oscar, eight, daughter Billie, five, and twin sons Tom and Darcy, three

Rebecca added: 'We've moved into our house, so we are the hosts this year'.

She says coming over to join her family of six, will be her, 'sister, her husband and two children, and Chris's family and grandparents, too'.

However, the radio host insists that her family is just like any other when it comes to Christmas dinner.

'For our festive table, we usually have a few decorations, seafood and turkey, and I make a chocolate pav every year. It's very basic,' she said.

The AFL WAG revealed: 'This Christmas I'm looking forward to spending some good quality time with my family. We've moved into our house, so we are the hosts this year'

The radio host insists that her family is just like any other. 'We usually have a few decorations, seafood and turkey, and I make a chocolate pav every year. It's very basic,' she said

The new family mansion has a tennis court, with a net on roller wheels allowing the court to turn into 'a footy oval or cricket pitch', a gym, and a magnesium salt pool.

Bec, Chris and their children son Oscar, eight, daughter Billie, five, and twin sons Tom and Darcy, three, moved into the home at the end of September.

In June, the brunette made headlines when she revealed the home's garage wasn't big enough to house her Range Rover.

Luxury: The mansion (pictured) has a gym, a tennis court, with a net on roller wheels allowing the court to turn into 'a footy oval or cricket pitch', and a magnesium salt pool

Home: Bec, Chris and their children moved into the home at the end of September

Lavish: There is plenty of space for family to enjoy when they come and visit

Talking to KIIS FM's Jase & PJ, Bec said she couldn't even fit the front of her luxury car inside the garage and she and Chris had to spend $50,000 expanding the space.

'When you go to home inspections, you never think to drive your cars into the garage to see if they fit or not,' she admitted.

Rebecca also held her lavish Juddchella backyard housewarming bash at the Brighton property in November.