Katelyn Dawson, 15, from Huddersfield, was waiting at the bus stop when a BMW mounted the pavement and hit her last January

The parents of a schoolgirl, who died after being killed in a horror crash at a bus stop, have appeared in court today charged with ten counts of harassing the driver.

Katelyn Dawson, 15, from Huddersfield, was waiting at the bus stop on Wakefield Road, Moldgreen, when a BMW mounted the pavement and hit her and two other pedestrians on January 10 2018.

The Shelley College student died later that day from multiple injuries and two other women were injured, one of them suffering life-changing injuries.

The driver who was 51 at the time of the incident has never been charged with any offence to the fury of her distraught parents, after the Crown Prosecution Service heard evidence that he fainted at the wheel.

Katelyn's father Colin, 47, and her mother Angela, 50, appeared at Kirklees Magistrates' Court

They accepted he was driving dangerously but was not criminally responsible for her death due to 'insane automatism'.

West Yorkshire Police conducted an intensive examination of the lead-up to the horror crash.

Katelyn's father Colin, 47, who works as caretaker at North Huddersfield Trust School, and her mother Angela, 50, who works at Lindley Junior School, appeared at Kirklees Magistrates' Court.

Tributes including pink balloons and flowers for the schoolgirl were seen at the scene of the incident

The couple of Dalton Fold Road, Dalton, face ten charges relating to harassment without violence of the driver and a woman believed to be his wife.

In August the couple handed out a petition entitled Justice for Katelyn outside the premises where the driver worked.

District Judge Richard Clews listened to arguments from prosecutor, Bill Astin and defence solicitor, Jonathan Slawinski without either of the defendants present.

Both parents sat outside the court in its precincts while the hearing took place.

The Shelley College student died later that day from multiple injuries after being hit by a BMW

Mr Clews then adjourned it until January 14, 2020. Huddersfield MP, Barry Sheerman, who has campaigned on behalf of the Dawsons and has named the driver in the House of Commons, sent a letter to the court pleading their case.

He wrote: 'I truly sympathise with Mr and Mrs Dawson in their endurance of injustice with regard to their daughter's case.

'I find it strange that a justice system where a child is killed but no-one is prosecuted but her distressed and desperate parents end up charged with harassment.

'I have a feeling of deep injustice in this case and will be raising the whole case in Parliament in the new year.

'I hope that you will bear in mind the full extent of the situation that I have outlined of the Dawsons, who are a good, law-abiding and grieving family.'