She's just wrapped up a successful series of Strictly Come Dancing, where she finished in fourth place with celebrity partner Chris Ramsey.

And Karen Hauer enjoyed some much needed downtime with boyfriend David Webb as they holidayed in the Caribbean island of Saint Martin on Monday.

The professional dancer, 37, showcased her incredible washboard abs in a tiny black bikini in a sizzling Instagram snap, before posing alongside her opera singer beau, 36.

Wow: Strictly's Karen Hauer showcased her incredible washboard abs in a tiny black bikini during romantic break to the Caribbean island of Saint Martin with beau David Webb on Friday

Clearly proud of her amazing dancer's body, Karen flaunted her figure in the skimpy two-piece, which allowed her to also display her toned arms and slender pins.

The star appeared happy and relaxed as she larked around with two adorable black dogs.

She captioned the snap: 'Can’t believe only one of them can understand my French.'

The Venezuelan beauty also shared a snap of herself and David posing in a mirror following a grueling workout.

Hot couple: Displaying her ripped physique once again, Karen donned a black crop top and matching leggings as she stood in front of her muscly beau for the pic

Displaying her ripped physique once again, Karen donned a black crop top and matching leggings as she stood in front of her muscly beau for the pic.

While another snap also saw the star showcasing her flexibility as she balanced on her tip-toes while admiring thew view.

David also shared a plethora of images on his Instagram page, including the couple in the gym and the hot tub.

It comes after Karen recently admitted she 'wasn't in a good place mentally or physically' following her divorce from Kevin Clifton.

Posers: David also shared a plethora of images on his Instagram page, including the couple in the gym and the hot tub

But despite the breakdown of their marriage, the former couple are now in a good place, with Karen revealing that she has a 'really lovely' friendship with her ex-husband.

Karen is now happier than ever with new beau David, with the dancer describing the opera singer as her 'rock'.

In their very first couple's photoshoot and interview with Hello! magazine, Karen revealed just how thrilled she is to have David in her life, with the couple setting up home together in April this year.

Not toe-day! Karen didn't appear keen on David's toes as they larked around in the hot tub during the sun-drenched break

Twinkle toes: She's just wrapped up a successful series of Strictly Come Dancing, where she finished in fourth place with celebrity partner Chris Ramsey

The couple were first pictured together on Boxing Day 2018, after he spent the festive period with Karen and her family in New York.

And it appears that things are going from strength-to-strength as she revealed just how happy he makes her.

She said: 'He's my rock. It’s so nice to have someone that understands and accepts me, doesn't judge and doesn't try to change me in any way. Everyone just falls in love with him too, because he has such a beautiful soul.'