Authorities said Nicole Marie Poole Franklin, 42, admitted to steering her SUV onto a sidewalk in Des Moines, Iowa on December 9 and running over Natalia Miranda

A woman has been charged with attempted murder after she allegedly told police that she intentionally ran over a 14-year-old girl because she believed the teenager was Mexican.

Authorities said Nicole Marie Poole Franklin, 42, admitted to steering her SUV onto a sidewalk in Des Moines, Iowa on December 9 and running over Natalia Miranda.

The teenager, who was walking to school at the time to watch a basketball game, suffered a concussion and severe bruising in the attack.

Franklin fled the scene after allegedly striking the teenager.

Police said she made several derogatory statements about Latinos during a police interview in which she admitted she intentionally ran over the victim.

Natalia was hospitalized for two days but is expected to make a full recovery - a feat doctors say is a miracle.

In an interview with KCCI, Natalia said she remembered little of the ordeal.

'I don't remember the impact. I just remember the car coming towards me,' she said.

Scroll down for video

Natalia Miranda, who was walking to school at the time to watch a basketball game, suffered a concussion and severe bruising in the attack

Prior to Franklin's arrest, the teen victim had begged for the person responsible to come forward and take responsibility

'I was in the hospital bed and I tried moving but I couldn't. Sitting up was the worst pain I've ever felt.'

Police believe Natalia may have been lying unconscious in the grass for about 15 minutes after she was struck.

She regained consciousness and somehow managed to stumble towards her school for help.

Prior to Franklin's arrest, the teen victim had begged for the person responsible to come forward and take responsibility.

'I didn't do anything, I'm just a girl walking to a basketball game,' she said.

Clive Police Chief Mike Venema condemned Franklin's actions.

'I want to say in the strongest terms possible that there is no place in our community... for this type of hatred or violence,' he said.