Whitney Cummings claims that she was reported to Human Resources for saying 'Merry Christmas' to an intern.

The comedienne, who was a guest on Conan on Wednesday night said she was working on TV show last year when the incident happened.

HR employees told the 37-year-old that the intern was upset because she is agnostic and doesn't celebrate Christmas.

But Cummings said she argued that it wasn't her role to figure out which of her coworkers believe - or don't believe - in God.

Whitney Cummings, 37, was a guest on TBS's Conan on Wednesday night when she said she was saying goodbye to her staffers in December 2018 and said Merry Christmas. Pictured: Cummings, left, being interview by Conan O'Brien

When Cummings returned in June, Human Resources employees called her. They told her of one of the interns was offended because she is agnostic and that Cummings should have said Happy Holidays. Pictured, left and right: Cummings on Conan

'Last year, I was working on a TV show, got in trouble with Human Resources for saying "Merry Christmas" to an intern,' Cummings told late-night host Conan O'Brien.

'Is that true?' O'Brien asks in shock.

Cummings explained that she had used the holiday greeting as a formality to say goodbye to all the staffers.

'I come back, like, June 6th. HR calls me and they're like: "Hey, we need to talk to you. One of the interns is pissed off that you said 'Merry Christmas.'"'

She didn't specify which show she was working on, but it was likely the 2018 reboot of ABC's Roseanne.

Cummings was co-showrunner at the time. The revival was canceled in the spring after star Roseanne Barr set off a firestorm with a racist tweet about businesswoman Valerie Jarrett.

Cummings said that the HR employees told her that the intern was offended because she is agnostic and that she should have said 'Happy Holidays.'

'I was like: "No, no, no, no, no. You do not get to do that because had I known that this person was agnostic, that would mean we were in a relationship, like, that would mean we were intimately connected."

'I should not know who believes in God and who doesn't. I also can't guess either, you know?'

The comedienne argued that the responsibility is not on her to figure out what religion other people are. Cummings didn't specify which show she was working on, but it was likely the 2018 reboot of ABC's Roseanne

Cummings also revealed that she got into trouble for re-gifting recently. Pictured: Cummings, left, being interview by Conan O'Brien

Earlier in the interview, Cummings said the gift-giving is the most stressful part of the holiday because she has so many gifts to buy for so many people.

'I recently got in a fight with someone because I re-gift,' she admitted. 'I've always regifted. My family has a very strong tradition of regifting.

But she admits she got caught when she re-gifted a Kindle that everyone had received at a TV wrap party.

'He calls me like a week later and he's like: "Did you buy me this?" I was like: "Yeah of course I did,"' Cumming said.

'He was like: "Why is your name engraved on the back of it?" And I was like: "I want you to remember who gave it to you!"'