Savers making early withdrawals from Lifetime Isas have racked up more than £9million in penalties, new figures revealed.

Lifetime Isas are able to be opened by those under-40 and only allow penalty-free withdrawals for first-time buyers purchasing a home or after the age of 60.

Those taking out money early are hit with a swingeing 25 per cent penalty and a Freedom of Information request by insurer Royal London revealed savers had incurred £4.69million in penalties between April and October this year alone.

The 25 per cent cut to withdrawals means that they would end up with less than they paid in on the sum taken out.

Paying the price: Savers have been docked more than £9million in Lifetime Isa early withdrawal charges since April 2018

Figures showed savers paid more in penalties in seven months this year than in the whole of the last tax year, raising more concerns over punishing charges that now total £9.04million since April 2018.

Previously, savers incurred £4.35million penalties in the 2018-19 tax year.

The Lifetime Isa provides a 25 per cent government bonus on savings of up to £4,000 a year, but withdrawing money for any other reason than buying your first home or after you turn 60 means you incur a 25 per cent penalty.

Crucially, this means savers could get back less than deposited, as subtracting 25 per cent from the total amount takes away the government bonus and more.

Sir Steve Webb, This is Money's pensions agony uncle and director of policy at Royal London, said: 'It is hard to see why the government should fine people whose only "crime" was to put money aside in the hope of buying a home and then see their circumstances change.

'People who change their plans after saving in a Lifetime Isa are finding that not only do they have to pay back the government top-up but they face a penalty charge as well.

'The Lifetime Isa would be a much attractive product if this penalty charge was abolished.'

Ben Stanway, the co-founder of Moneybox, an app-based provider offering both a cash and stocks and shares Lifetime Isa, had previously called on the government to reduce the bonus.

He said: 'We think the government should cut the early withdrawal penalty from 25 per cent to 20 per cent so people would only lose their bonus.

'From speaking with customers ahead of the launch of our own Cash Lifetime Isa, we know young people have a good understanding of the rules, but things happen in their lives that they couldn't have predicted.'

It is hard to see why the government should fine people whose only "crime" was to put money aside in the hope of buying a home and then see their circumstances change Sir Steve Webb

The Lifetime Isa restrictions are complicated by the fact that savers are also be charged the penalty if they try to use the account to buy a home before it has been open for 12 months, or a property costing more than £450,000.

The new figures are especially worrying now that the Help to Buy Isa, which had more restrictions on contributions but not on withdrawals, has been phased out and the Lifetime Isa is the only option for those looking for free government money towards their first home.

It is therefore possible the figures could increase even more over the last four months of the 2019-20 tax year.

James Blower, founder of The Savings Guru, previously told This is Money that penalty statistics 'clearly demonstrate that Lifetime Isas are not clearly understood and are being used for the wrong purposes by savers'.

He added: 'They are too complex and being used for the wrong purposes. I'd urge the Treasury to review Isas entirely and bring back simplicity, as soon as possible.'

Lifetime Isa providers are required by the Financial Conduct Authority to inform savers about exit charges.

The Treasury said: 'The withdrawal charge aims to recover the government bonus received and apply an extra charge to the original savings.

'This means that if you treat your Lifetime Isa as a short-term savings product, you could get back less than you paid in.'

The taxman defended the 25% Lifetime Isa penalty as incentivising people to use the account for 'its intended purpose'

HMRC previously said of the penalty: 'The Lifetime Isa was introduced to help younger generations save both for their first home and later life.

'It was devised as a long-term savings product which supports people to save flexibly by providing a generous 25 per cent government bonus on contributions up to £4,000 a year.

'To incentivise savers to use the Lifetime ISA in this way there is a 25 per cent government charge on unauthorised withdrawals.

'This maintains the flexibility of the product, as people are able to access the vast majority of their savings and growth in need, while also ensuring it is used for its intended purpose.'