Keeping Tai Wesley out of foul trouble is priority No.1 for South East Melbourne Phoenix, who hope to shed their muddled NBL mid-season form against the Sydney Kings.

The Phoenix will travel to the league leaders on Monday boasting six losses from their last eight games, including Friday's 90-84 defeat against the New Zealand Breakers in Christchurch.

They're still locked in the middle of the table but a 7-8 record is disappointing for coach Simon Mitchell after a bright start to their inaugural campaign.

It was hoped the return of power forward Wesley from a lengthy hamstring injury two weeks ago would provide some impetus but the player regarded as the league's premier "four man" has struggled for court time.

Wesley fouled out in his two previous appearances and his minutes were also reduced in Christchurch after the former Breaker snagged early foul calls against him.

Some of those decisions riled Mitchell, who said his team must unearth tactics to keep the 33-year-old low post specialist out of trouble.

"We've got to find a way to keep Tai on the floor and we don't have much time to do it. He's not had a lot of luck," Mitchell said.

"We also need to keep our offence ticking over so we don't become Tai-centric and throw it in there and stand and watch. I thought we were that team at times tonight."

Mitchell said Wesley and Phoenix centre Dane Pineau were effectively targeted by speedy Breakers pair Scotty Hopson (24 points) and Sek Henry (17).

The American duo drove aggressively to the hoop and earned their team 20 trips to the free throw line compared to the visitors' lowly 11.

Phoenix's 84 points was their second-lowest score of the season, not helped by an off night for John Roberson. A match-winner against Cairns last week with his long-range shooting, the guard missed nine of his 12 three-point attempts.

"He had some good looks but didn't knock them down. It's a little bit unlike him but you can't expect him to shoot it well every game," Mitchell said.

Experienced guard Adam Gibson missed the game with a calf injury but is a chance to be fit to face the Kings.