The neighbor had called police because Jefferson's door had been left open

Dean was one of the responding officers when police arrived to her house after a neighbor called a non-emergency line requesting a welfare check

Dean resigned from the police department after the shooting

A Texas grand jury has indicted a white police officer for murder after he shot and killed a black woman in her home.

Former Fort Worth, Texas, police officer Aaron Dean, 35, had been charged with murder following the October shooting death of pre-med student Atatiana Jefferson, 28, who had been at home babysitting her nephew.

The grand jury indictment was made Friday, the Tarrant County District Attorney's Office told NBC News.

Aaron Dean, 35, was indicted on murder charges by a Texas grand jury Friday. He is accused of fatally shooting Atatiana Jefferson, 28, through her back window after responding to a call about the front door being open in October

'The former @CityofFortWorth cop that shot #AtatianaJefferson to death in her home was indicted for murder by a Tarrant County Grand Jury today!,' Jefferson family lawyer S. Lee Merritt, Esq. tweeted after the indictment.

'Atatiana’s family is relived but remain cautious that a conviction and appropriate sentence is still a long way away. Keep pushing.'

Dean resigned from the police department after the shooting, which took pace while Jefferson was babysitting her eight-year-old nephew.

Dean was one of the responding officers when police arrived to her house after a neighbor called a non-emergency line requesting a welfare check at the home because the door had been left open.

A makeshift memorial rests on the sidewalk that leads to the home of Atatiana Jefferson in Fort Worth, Texas

A bullet hole from the police officer's shot is seen in the rear window of Atatiana Jefferson's home in Fort Worth, Texas on October 15

Bodycam footage shows Dean (pictured) shot Jefferson early on the morning of October 12 after entering her backyard

Jefferson (pictured) was playing video games with her eight-year-old nephew Zion when Dean arrived and crept around the back of the home, gun drawn and unannounced, according to his arrest warrant and bodycam video

Fort Worth Police released body camera footage of Dean firing the fatal shot through Jefferson's window. Investigators said the officer did not identify himself as police beforehand

Bodycam footage shows Dean shot Jefferson early on the morning of October 12 after entering her backyard.

Dean cannot be heard identifying himself as police on the video. Police said Dean drew his gun after 'perceiving a threat' but that there was no sign he or the other officer who responded ever knocked on the front door.

A gun was found in Jefferson's home after the shooting, but police and city leaders have said it was not relevant to her death.

Fort Worth Police Department Chief Ed Kraus said Dean was dispatched to investigate an 'open structure call,' a situation which could mean a door left open by accident or a burglary in process.

Atatiana was playing video games with her eight-year-old nephew Zion when Dean arrived and crept around the back of the home, gun drawn and unannounced, according to his arrest warrant and bodycam video.

The victim heard noises, pulled her handgun out of her purse and pointed it at a bedroom window, Zion told police, according to the warrant.

Dean shined his flashlight into the window and said: 'Put your hands up, show me your hands!'

He fired a split second later, without identifying himself as police, bodycam video showed.

Dean resigned from the force two days after the shooting and police charged him with murder.

Kraus said Dean violated a series of police policies and it was understandable that Atatiana would draw her gun in such a situation.

'We have completed an initial review of the case, and based on the evidence we intend to ask the Grand Jury for an indictment of murder against Aaron Dean,' Tarrant County Criminal District Attorney Sharen Wilson said in a statement.

'We will prosecute this case to the fullest extent of the law.'

Dean worked for the Fort Worth Police Department for two years before his resignation. He was interviewed in March 2017 after he completed training at the police academy and was hired the following August.

Hundreds of mourners attended Jefferson's November funeral, including Fort Worth's mayor and the interim police chief in Dallas.

The service for the pre-med graduate took place just days after it was rescheduled due to a family dispute.