Season three of Very Cavallari is promising more drama than ever.

In a new trailer, out Friday, star Kristin Cavallari tries to balance life as a mom, business owner and friend in Nashville, Tennessee.

Things get tense in one scene with husband Jay Cutler, where they're seen sitting down to a fancy dinner and discussing their personal life.

Ready for drama: Kristin Cavallari gets emotional in a trailer for the new season of Very Cavallari

'We speak two different languages when it comes to conflict,' Kristin cries as Jay's face falls with disappointment.

The Uncommon James founder's tension with Cutler isn't the only conflict.

Cavallari is also seen at odds with best friend Kelly Henderson.

'How can you not take a step back and understand where I’m coming from?' a crying Kristin asks while Kelly gets up and walks away from the conversation.

Different pages: 'We speak two different languages when it comes to conflict,' Kristin cries as Jay's face falls with disappointment

Friend fight: Cavallari is also seen at odds with best friend Kelly Henderson

Newcomer: There are also new friends in town with the arrival of The Hills alumi's pal Justin Anderson

While she fights with Kelly, there are also new friends in town with the arrival of The Hills alumi's pal Justin Anderson.

But there is more drama when she and Justin are seen chatting about someone's rumors of infidelity.

'If I was accused of having an affair with your husband, I wouldn't say his f***ing name on social media' she tells her longtime hair stylist and friend about an unnamed person.

Gossip: There is more drama when she and Justin are seen chatting about someone's rumors of infidelity

No way! 'If I was accused of having an affair with your husband, I wouldn't say his f***ing name on social media' she tells her longtime hair stylist and friend about an unnamed person

Working hard! Not seen in the trailer are Kristin's efforts to expand her business with a new Uncommon James store in Chicago

The trailer also offers several snippets of a family trip to Italy, where Kristin travels to in order to trace her roots.'

Not seen in the trailer are Kristin's efforts to expand her business with a new Uncommon James store in Chicago.

Very Cavallari will return for its third season January 9th on E!