They're set to spend their first Christmas as a family of three.

And Jenson Button and his fiancée Brittny Ward were spotted stepping out in Los Angeles on Sunday with their baby son Hendrix, picking up some last minute items from the stores at Westfield Mall.

The Formula One ace, 39, and the model, 29, pushed their five-month-old child along in a stroller as they enjoyed a leisurely weekend outing.

Festive fun: Jenson Button and his fiancée Brittny Ward were spotted stepping out in Los Angeles on Sunday with their baby son Hendrix, picking up some last minute items from the stores at Westfield Mall

Brittny was embracing a casual look in a navy camisole and chunky cardigan teamed with cropped skinny jeans.

She completed her off-duty ensemble with a pair of Nike trainers and a Louis Vuitton cross-body bag.

Jenson was sporting an equally dressed down look, layering a grey bomber jacket over a white T-shirt.

Brittny and Jenson got engaged in June 2018 after two years of dating.

Low-key: Brittny was embracing a casual look in a navy camisole and chunky cardigan teamed with cropped skinny jeans

They have been together since March 2016, three months after he announced his split from ex-wife, model Jessica Michibata.

Jenson and Jessica were together for seven years, but split one year after their Hawaiian wedding.

Jenson and Brittny welcomed their son via a planned C-section in July and announced the news with a sweet Instagram post.

Sharing a cute photograph of their baby boy's feet, Brittny penned: 'He's here, he's healthy and our hearts couldn't be more full'.

Happy couple: Brittny and Jenson got engaged in June 2018 after two years of dating and welcomed their first child this summer

The couple have also already made Hendrix his own Instagram account, where they have shared pictures of the newborn asleep and on his first walk.bybutton'.

During a candid interview with HELLO! magazine, the Playboy model later described how Jenson was overcome with emotion when he found out he was set to become a father.

She said: 'Jenson was away when I found out, and I wanted to tell him face-to face so I waited until he returned home.

'It was so hard to not say anything on the phone but I thought it was more special to do it in person. I gave him a little gift box with the test in it and he started crying.

'It was a very sweet moment. It was exactly what you would want the father of your future child to do.'