Apprentice winner Carina Lepore only made £13,000 in her bakery business last year.

Carina, 30, won the BBC 1 show on Wednesday and garnered a £250,000 investment in her fledgling company, Dough Artisan Bakehouse, from Sir Alan Sugar.

But documents listed on Companies House showed the television personality's firm, which she set up at the start of last year, had just £13,713 worth of funds in the bank, along with £37,040 worth of assets.

Not so good: Apprentice winner Carina Lepore, 30, only made £13,000 in her bakery business, Artisan Dough Bakehouse, last year (pictured: The star with Sir Alan Sugar after her win)

The figures, which were first reported by The Sun and publicly available on Companies House, also showed the star's company had paid £46,471 to creditors in 2018.

Carina beat her recruiter opponent, Scarlett Allen-Horton, 32, in the final aired on BBC1 on Wednesday.

Carina runs the bakery in Herne Hill, South London, and said after her victory she wanted a branch 'every high street across the UK'.

And although she talked about the influence of her father, who was the head baker at her business, documents show his directorship was terminated in June.

Money: Documents listed on Companies House showed the television personality's firm had just £13,713 worth of funds in the bank, along with £37,040 worth of assets (pictured August)

Mail Online has approached Carina's representatives and the BBC for comment.

Carina and Scarlett went head to head in their final task, in which they had to create digital adverts and present them to Lord Sugar and 250 experts at City Hall.

After her win, she told MailOnline her victory was down to never losing focus on her goal of being a businesswoman.

Tasty: Carina runs the bakery in Herne Hill, South London, and said after her victory that she wanted a branch 'every high street across the UK'

Carina - who was jokingly dubbed 'the baker who's not a baker' during her time on the show, said:'I was there for business, I wasn't on there for a TV career...

'My focus was always on winning the competition. I never pulled focus. I went in to win it and I don't regret anything. I stand by all my decisions.

'All of us have an unbreakable bond because we have been through this crazy experience together.'

Winner: Carina beat her recruiter opponent, Scarlett Allen-Horton, 32, in the BBC1 final on Wednesday

Carina aims to open two new stores in the next three years.

She said: 'I am excited to work with Lord Sugar and grow my business, I cannot wait and I respect him so much as a businessman.'

Scarlett's business plan was a female only engineering focused executive search company named Stanton Lily.

Mother-of-two Scarlett moved a group of experts and investors when she discussed leaving school at 16, falling pregnant at 19 and building a successful career in recruitment for her family.