He's taking some time to enjoy the great outdoors while on holiday.

And Leonardo DiCaprio appeared at ease as he geared up for a day on the slopes in Aspen, Colorado with supermodel girlfriend Camila Morrone.

The 45-year-old actor sported an all-black ensemble as he took a lift up to the top of the mountain and skied alongside his 22-year-old lady love.

Winter wonderland: Leonardo DiCaprio appeared at ease as he geared up for a day on the slopes in Aspen, Colorado with supermodel girlfriend Camila Morrone

Leonardo looked like a professional athlete dressed for warmth in a black snow jacket with matching slacks.

He appeared to be wearing a host of layers under his heavy coat as he made his way up the mountain with gloves attached to his wrist.

Ever the fan of staying incognito, he wore a helmet on top of a black hooded jacket, with mirrored lenses covering his eyes.

Afternoon delight: The 45-year-old actor sported an all-black ensemble as he took a lift up to the top of the mountain and skied alongside his 22-year-old lady love

Workout: Leonardo looked like a professional athlete dressed for warmth in a black snow jacket with matching slacks

Dressed in his best: He appeared to be wearing a host of layers under his heavy coat as he made his way up the mountain with gloves attached to his wrist

Camila looked equally as prepared for a day out in the elements as she zipped up her black puffer jacket with a matching fur hood.

She made sure to stay protected while gliding down the range wearing a helmet and snow goggles.

The pair enjoyed a few moments to themselves as they glanced across the snowy valley while on a ski lift.

Up, up and away: Ever the fan of staying incognito, he wore a helmet on top of a black hooded jacket, with mirrored lenses covering his eyes

Chic: Camila looked equally as prepared for a day out in the elements as she zipped up her black puffer jacket with a matching fur hood

All done! The Academy Award winner trekked back to his car after a day outdoors

The catwalk queen recently defended their age gap during an interview with The Los Angeles Times.

'There's so many relationships in Hollywood — and in the history of the world — where people have large age gaps,' Morrone said. 'I just think anyone should be able to date who they want to date.'

She conceded that she understood why her relationship has garnered the interest of so many, adding, 'I probably would be curious about it too.'