The school board in Athens, Ohio, decided the stadium at Athens High School will be renamed to honor Joe Burrow, a 2015 alumnus and the 2019 Heisman Trophy winner.

"In recognition of Mr. Burrow's accomplishments, the Athens City School District Board of Education does hereby direct the Superintendent and the Athens High School Administration to take such actions as are necessary to name the Athens High School Football Stadium the Joe Burrow Stadium and to work with the Athens High School Booster Club and the Athens High School Bulldog Blitz to plan a ceremony to celebrate this honor," the district posted on Facebook Thursday evening.

In his Heisman Trophy acceptance speech last Saturday night in New York, Burrow, the LSU quarterback, didn't forget his hometown, which is located about 150 miles east of Cincinnati.

"It's a very, very impoverished area," Burrow said on Saturday with tears in his eyes. "The poverty rate is almost two times the national average. There are so many people there that don't have a lot, and I'm up here for all those kids in Athens and Athens County that go home to not a lot of food on the table, hungry after school. You guys can be up here, too."

The school district recognized those efforts in it social media post.

"As part of Joe's acceptance speech he humbly recognized Athens and Southeast Ohio and the many challenges faced by families in our region. His comments instigated a fundraising campaign that has resulted in over $400,000 for the Athens County Food Bank, thousands of dollars donated to the Athens High School Boosters, donations to Athens County Children's Services via the Giving Tree project, and donations to other area governmental and non-profit support agencies," the district said.

Burrow had a spectacular year in leading LSU to an undefeated record and the No. 1 ranking in the nation.

He leads the nation in touchdown passes (an SEC-record 48) and is on pace to set a NCAA record for completion percentage (77.9, 342 of 439). He is second nationally with 4,715 passing yards and in passing efficiency rating (201.5) while directing the nation's most-productive offense (554.4 yards per game).

The Tigers will meet No. 4 Oklahoma on Dec. 28 in the Peach Bowl, one of two College Football Playoff semifinals.

--Field Level Media