She plays Grizabella, the Glamor Cat, in the movie of Andrew Lloyd Webber's iconic musical Cats.

And Jennifer Hudson looked typically glamorous in a glittery blue wrap dress when she appeared on Stephen Colbert's Late Show on Thursday.

It was not long before the host got onto the subject of the heavily ridiculed film Cats, asking the million dollar question, 'What's it about?'

Warm welcome: Jennifer Hudson was overwhelmed by the audience who cheered when she turned up on Stephen Colbert's Late Show on Thursday evening

That's hard to answer even for people who have seen the musical live or a familiar with T.S. Eliots poems the show is based on.

But Jennifer, 38, gave it her best shot saying: 'So basically, you know how cats get a ninth life?

'So they have a ball once a year and only one cat gets that ninth life. They get to display their talent or whatever that is and then try to earn the ninth life.'

Naturally Stephen had a follow up question: 'What happens to the other cats? Do they die?'

Getting down to business: Host Stephen asked the 38-year-old the million dollar question, 'What's Cats about?'

The Academy and Grammy award winner was not fazed saying: 'Well, they just have to wait their turn ’til next year to try to get the ninth life. I guess.'

However, she refused to answer when he asked her what a 'jellicle cat' is.

'Each song that we sing explains all of that, so you get the soundtrack and you get your ticket to the movie, and you go see the movie and it’s gonna tell you everything all y’all need to know.'

Easy answer: 'You know how cats get a ninth life?' she explained. 'So they have a ball once a year [to display their talent] and only one cat gets that ninth life'

And the star, who has two cats and three dogs at home, revealed the cast had to go to cat school to learn how to move like a feline.

'Yes, We had to crawl on the floor and learn their mannerisms and their ways. So you have to lead from your nose or ears,' she explained. 'I get cats more now.'

Meanwhile, Cats opened in theaters on Thursday.

Jennifer also talked about playing iconic singer Aretha Franklin in the movie Respect, due out on October 9.