Sam Faiers has vowed to donate a percentage of all her earnings to children's charity Outreach Moldova.

The Mummy Diaries star has been fundraising for the charity, after being moved by a 'life-changing' trip she took to the Eastern European country in November, where she visited orphanages housing vulnerable and disabled children.

Speaking exclusively to MailOnline, Sam, 28, revealed she and former Apprentice star Luisa Zissman have since raised over £100,000 for the charity and she alone hopes to donate another £500,000 in 2020.

Good cause: Sam Faiers has vowed to donate a percentage of all her earnings to children's charity Outreach Moldova, following her 'life-changing' visit to orphanages in the Eastern European country

Sam and Luisa were motivated to set up a JustGiving page after carrying out their philanthropic work in Moldova and seeing firsthand the children Outreach Moldova vows to support.

Recalling the emotional visit, Sam said: 'The trip to Outreach Moldova was life-changing and really brought home for me how fortunate we are.

'I'm overwhelmed by the public support and it's incredible that in less than a month we've already raised over £100,000, which will go so far in helping so many children that really need it.'

Sam then promised to personally donate a percentage of all her earnings to the charity, which Luisa has been working with for the last five years, and vowed to continue her fundraising efforts next year.

Joining forces: The reality star, 28, has teamed up with her close friend Luisa Zissman and set up a JustGiving page that has since raised over £100,000 for the charity that supports vulnerable and disabled children that have been abandoned or orphaned

'I've decided to donate a percentage of all my earnings to the charity too and I'm currently planning how I can fundraise further in 2020,' she revealed.

'My aim is to raise a further £500,000 for the charity... I'm planning to make more regular trips back to Moldova too in a bid to use my platforms to raise awareness and support where I can.'

Set up by a Dublin-based Irish medical doctor in 2000, Outreach Moldova provides care and welfare to children who have been abandoned or orphaned, as well as those who have had 'a special or extra need and were in serious need of a multidisciplinary approach towards their care and their lives'.

Sam shared footage of her trip to Moldova to Instagram last month, including one clip where she was seen breaking down in tears while sat beside a little girl at the orphanage.

Inspired: Sam exclusively told MailOnline she will donate a percentage of all of her earnings to Outreach Moldova next year and wants to continue raising awareness for the charity

Sam was seen stroking the disabled child's arm and asked why she was so emotional, she struggled to answer, before saying: 'She's smiling and she's happy, they're looking after you aren't they?'

The Essex star stressed to her followers how important the charity is to the children in Moldova alongside the moving clip, while writing: 'Here in Moldova if these children didn’t have @outreachmoldova they would be left to die.

'That’s the stark contrast and very real reality between our two countries. There is no social care or social welfare here. This little girl was smiling & giggling and loved me touching her. All the children adore human touch.

'Sadly due to a lack of funds recently outreach have lost their in house physio which is vital to keep these children comfortable and moving, they require nurses and nannies to feed them, wash them, change them for the incontinent ones.

Moving: Sam shared footage of her trip to Moldova to Instagram last month, including one clip where she was seen breaking down in tears while sat beside a little girl at the orphanage

'Please help us care for these children. Please donate (link in bio) if all my followers donated £2 we could raise £4.8 MILLION (£2 is the minimum on just giving) x.' [sic]

She later added in a second post that the trip had left her 'emotionally drained', but her 'life has been touched and changed forever' because of the visit.

Sam said: 'So today has been much harder than I ever imaged or expected.

'I'm completely emotionally drained and need to process what I have seen and learnt before I come on here and try and show you all my experience.

'What I can say is my life has been touched & changed forever. I can't wait for a future with these amazing children & to help this incredible charity from the ground upwards x'. [sic]

Sam is a mum herself and shares two children, son Paul, three, and two-year-old daughter Rosie with her long-term partner Paul Knightley.