Kylie Jenner shared two new images to social media where she was showing off one of her best assets.

While on the balcony of her $6M mansion in Hidden Hills, California, the 22-year-old cosmetics queen made the focus her backside.

The mother to daughter Stormi was in a $62 skintight black Naked Wardrobe jumpsuit as she held on to one of her $20K Hermes Birkin bags.

Check me out: Kylie Jenner shared two new images to social media where she was showing off one of her best assets. While on the balcony of her $6M mansion in Hidden Hills, California, the 22-year-old cosmetics queen made the focus her backside

Jenner also had on a black Chanel top and boots. Her long raven hair was worn down in soft waves.

And her makeup was perfect as she needs to plug Kylie Cosmetics as much as possible before the holiday season is over. She recently sold 51% of her company to Coty for $600M.

The TV star often does photo shoots at her sprawling home which is an impressive 7,000 square feet big. She purchased the home in 2016.

Label lady: The mother to daughter Stormi was in a skintight black Naked Wardrobe jumpsuit as she held on to one of her $20K Hermes Birkin bags

On Friday Kylie posted a photo where she was in a similar outfit.

The Forbes cover girl was in head to toe black as she leaned against her pink KYLIE truck. The Life Of Kylie star uses the truck to promote her makeup brand.

Earlier this week she showed off her newly remodeled kitchen.

Kylie wheels: On Friday Kylie posted a photo where she was in a similar outfit. The Forbes cover girl was in head to toe black as she leaned against her pink KYLIE truck. The Life Of Kylie star uses the truck to promote her makeup brand.

The Lip Kit mogul turned the black-and-white space into a light grey area with marble countertops.

The 22-year-old daughter of Kris Jenner wrote in her caption, 'Ahhhh' and added a heart-eyed emoji.

All of the surfaces of the kitchen were redone.

Gone were the white cabinets which were replaced by a dark matte grey color. Also, the counter tops now were a white-and-grey marble color.

The lighting was also different with a black chandelier that looked very modern and no-nonsense.

On the counter there was not much, just a potted plant and a canister with kitchen tools.

New look: Kylie Jenner has remodeled her kitchen inside her impressive 7,000 square foot Hidden Hills, California mansion. She turned the black-and-white space into a grey area with marble countertops

New kitchen: She simply captioned the snap 'renovations,' but added a host of crying emojis alongside heart-eyed faces last week