Alphabet Inc's newly-instated Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai will receive a hefty $240million in performance-based stock awards over the next three years, the highest ever promised to any executive of the search giant.

Pichai will also take home $2million in annual salary starting 2020, according to a regulatory filing on Friday.

That compares with a $1 salary received by Larry Page in the same role last year.

Google co-founders Page and Sergey Brin stepped down earlier this month as leaders of the internet behemoth they founded 21 years ago, giving Pichai charge of the parent company in addition to his role as the chief of Google.

Pichai is now the public face of a company that is facing criticism from US lawmakers as well as its employees over a number of issues ranging from privacy to monopoly.

Sundar Pichai, who was recently promoted to CEO of Google's parent company Alphabet, could take home as much as $240million in performance-based stock awards over the next three years

When he took over as Google's chief in 2015, Pichai drew an annual salary of $652,500.

The following year his earnings skyrocketed, thanks to a massive $199million in stock awards, the highest ever for any Alphabet executive back then.

According to the most recent proxy statement from the company, Pichai earned nearly $1.9million in 2018, which mostly included the costs for his security and personal use of aircraft.

His base salary that year was $650,000.

Page and Brin, both 46, announced in a blog post earlier this month that they will be stepping down as Alphabet CEO and president respectively, amid mounting legal troubles for Google in both Europe and the US.

Google is facing a high-profile anti-competition lawsuit in the US, having been hit with billions of dollars of fines in Europe.

However, Page and Brin - who founded Google in a garage 20 years ago - will maintain their positions on Alphabet's board and hold a majority of voting shares, meaning they will remain in control of the business from behind the scenes.

The move will take the pair further out of the public eye, at a time when Google faces mounting antitrust scrutiny and other tech CEOs such as Mark Zuckerberg have been forced to answer withering questions from regulators around the world.

News of Pichai's elevation was met positively by investors who were growing frustrated with Page and Brin for lavish spending on longshot projects under the aegis of Alphabet.

On their blog, Page and Brin claimed the move was to allow Google to flourish without their 'daily nagging'.

The pair have spent years avoiding difficult questions about their company, including on election interference, anti-trust practices, mass data collection, censorship in China and sexual harassment claims within Google's upper echelons.

In 2018, as Twitter boss Jack Dorsey and Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg were grilled by US senators over election meddling, Page's chair was empty after he claimed he was too busy to attend the hearing.

Larry Page (pictured left in 2015) and Sergey Brin (right, last month) announced earlier this month they will be stepping down as CEO and President of Google parent company Alphabet

The pair, who founded the search engine from a rented garage in 1998 (pictured in 2003), said the move is to allow the company to flourish without their 'daily nagging'

Sundar Pichai (pictured right alongside Ivanka Trump) took over their roles, leaving him as the public face of the entire Google operation

The Telegraph reports they have also been absent from shareholder meetings where a group of vocal activist owners have been demanding answers, and routinely skip Friday drinks at Google HQ where they used to answer questions from staff.

'With Alphabet now well-established, and Google and the Other Bets operating effectively as independent companies, it's the natural time to simplify our management structure,' Page and Brin wrote in a blog post earlier this month.

'We've never been ones to hold on to management roles when we think there's a better way to run the company. And Alphabet and Google no longer need two CEOs and a President.'

What are Alphabet's 'Other Bets'? To grow beyond its main search and advertising business, Google restructured in 2015 and established Alphabet as a holding company overseeing various 'other bets', ranging from its autonomous vehicle unit to helium balloons that provide solar-powered internet services in remote areas. Below are some of those projects. X Known as Alphabet's 'Moonshot Factory', X is a research and development unit that acts as a nursery for the company's many offshoot projects, such as Waymo, Wing, Makani, Loon and others, helping them take root as viable separate entities. WAYMO Begun as Google's self-driving car project, Waymo has become one of the most advanced autonomous vehicle technology firms. In December 2018, it launched the first commercial automated ride-hailing service of its size among the main U.S. companies vying to dominate the nascent market. It is now offering fully automated 'rider-only' services to early users in Phoenix, Arizona, as it looks beyond the robo-taxi business to generate future revenue. LOON Incubated in Google's research lab in 2011, Loon was spun out as an Alphabet subsidiary in July 2018. It aims to bring connectivity to remote parts of the world by floating solar-powered networking gear over areas where cell towers would be too expensive to build. Its tennis-court-sized helium balloons have demonstrated utility. Over the last three years, Loon successfully let wireless carriers in Peru and Puerto Rico use balloons for free to supplant cell phone towers downed by natural disasters. But the lifespan of the balloons is only around five months because the plastic degrades. Their presence has also generated safety concerns from some aviation authorities. WING AVIATION Wing is Alphabet's delivery service using specialized drones, beginning commercial air delivery services this year in Canberra, Australia, and Helsinki, Finland. In the United States in September, Wing partnered with Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc and FedEx Corp to start U.S. deliveries from October. MAKANI POWER Makani attempts to harness renewable energy from wind by using propellers on airborne kites to generate electricity. It joined the Moonshot Factory in 2013 and spun out this year to become an independent unit within Alphabet, partnering with Royal Dutch Shell Plc to build commercial versions of its kites, according to Makani's website. VERILY Verily is Alphabet's life science tech unit that works on machine learning and wearable devices for a wide range of healthcare scenarios. It partners with several pharma companies for research on such projects as surgical robots and retina scan technology for early detection of some eye diseases. SIDEWALK LABS Sidewalk Labs provides sensor-based urban technology to manage crowds and vehicular traffic. It is working on a project to develop a futuristic smart city in Toronto that includes self-driving garbage cans and infrared sensors to track foot traffic in stores. CAPITALG CapitalG, formerly Google Capital, is Alphabet's private equity fund primarily focused on backing new tech ventures. It has invested in such companies as ride-hailing firm Lyft Inc, stock trading app Robinhood and short-term home rental firm Airbnb Inc. GV GV was founded as Google Ventures in 2009 before it spun off as a venture capital investment unit under Alphabet. Based in New York, the firm has funded over 400 companies in the life sciences, consumer and technology sectors. DEEPMIND Acquired by Google in 2014, DeepMind is a UK-based unit taking on research projects that mostly deal with artificial intelligence. Founded in London in 2012, DeepMind uses general-purpose learning algorithms for applications such as simulations, e-commerce and games. CALICO Another health-related venture, Calico focuses on research and development of methods to cure life-threatening diseases, and tackling problems affecting mental and physical agility due to aging. ACCESS Headed by former Time Warner Cable executive Dinesh Jain, Access is an internet services unit providing high speed internet services in several U.S. locations.

Page and Brin started the search giant in 1998 in Silicon Valley.

Alphabet has been positioning Pichai as the de facto leader for quite some time — making him the top executive voice at shareholders meetings, on earnings call and as a spokesman at congressional hearings.

Alphabet - an umbrella corporation that the two created in 2015 - still boasts Google as its central fixture and key moneymaker.

But it's also made up of what are known as 'other bets,' or longshot projects. That includes drone company Wing and self-driving car firm Waymo.

Google has nearly doubled its headcount since Pichai took over as chief executive, growing from a company of 59,000 employees to 114,000 now.

Brin and Page met as Stanford University graduate students in 1995 and started the company soon after.

What started as a way to catalog the growing internet has now become one of the most powerful companies in the world.

Google dominates online search and digital advertising.

It's hard to make it through a whole day without using one of Google's services - ranging from online tools to email, cloud computing systems, phones and smart speaker hardware.

Yet Google has been facing pressure from privacy advocates over its collection and use of personal information to target advertising. It also faces allegations that it abuses its dominance in search and online advertising to push out rivals.

Google is the subject of antitrust inquiries from Congress, the Department of Justice and a contingency of states in the US and from European authorities.

The company has also faced harsh criticism about the material on its sites - and was slapped with a $170million fine because its video streaming site YouTube improperly collected personal data on children without their parents' consent.