Nine has released the first sneak peek promo of their highly anticipated breakfast show, Today, since announcing their new line-up earlier this month.

Karl Stefanovic and Allison Langdon replace outgoing hosts Georgie Gardner and Deborah Knight as they attempt to revive the struggling morning program.

The short clip opens with footage of Karl and Allison reporting from different locations around the world to highlight the 40 years of experience between the pair.

First look: Nine has released the first sneak peek promo of their highly anticipated breakfast show, Today, since announcing their new line-up, which includes hosts Karl Stefanovic (L) and Allison Langdon (R) earlier this month

It then follows them as they walk into the studios and sit behind the Today desks before reading the news and laughing as they exchange banter.

'We can't wait to tell you all the news, all the important stuff in the day, but send you off with a laugh,' Karl said.

Allison added: 'We just provide a bit of fun, but you know when the big stories break, we have got it covered.'

They're well versed! The short advertisement opens with footage of Karl and Allison reporting from locations around the world to highlight the 40 years of experience between the pair

'We'll provide fun!' It then follows them as they walk into the studios and sit behind the Today desks before reading the news and laughing as they exchange banter

Earlier this month Channel Nine announced the new line-up for the revamped show- which has lagging behind in the ratings.

Karl and Allison will be joined by Perth newsreader Tracy Vo, weatherman Tim Davies and former Sunday Night reporter Alex Cullen, who will present sport on the breakfast program.

Brooke Boney will continue her role as entertainment reporter when the new team debut live on January 6, next year.

New-look team: Karl and Allison will be joined by Perth newsreader Tracy Vo (L) and weatherman Tim Davies (R)

Switching networks: Former Channel 7 reporter Alex Cullen (pictured) completes the new look line-up as the sports presenter

According to media experts, Karl will have a tough road ahead of him as he tries to narrow the TV ratings margin to their rivals Sunrise.

Media analyst Steve Allen recently told The Daily Telegraph: 'In the next year, if they can half that deficit between Today and Sunrise, that would be a fantastic outcome.'

He added: 'That's my thinking. They just need to see that huge gap narrow.'