A gang leader ordered the killings of four ride-sharing drivers in Brazil after his sick mother had a ride cancelled, according to reports.

The four victims, aged between 23 to 48, were called to the Jardim Santo Inácio favela in Salvador before being tortured and killed.

Two of the drivers worked for Uber and the other two for a Brazilian taxi app company, 99, with a fifth driver notifying the police after escaping.

Two of the victims worked for Uber and the other two for a Brazilian ride-sharing company, 99. The four drivers were tortured to death at the Jardim Santo Inácio favela in Salvador (stock)

The man reportedly described his abduction on local television, saying he was led behind a shack after being taken from his car at gunpoint.

The driver said he was tied up, beaten and tortured but managed to flee into a swamp when one of the victims grabbed a suspect's gun.

Rui Costa, the Bahia governor, said: 'The gangster ordered these people killed because his mother called Uber, but the car never arrived', reported Fox News.

Two suspects in the murders were killed in a police shootout on the same day and the gang leader who ordered the killings was found fatally shot two days later.

Rui Costa (pictured), the Bahia governor, said the gang leader ordered the killings because 'his mother called Uber, but the car never arrived'

According to The Guardian, an Uber spokeswoman said: 'Uber deeply regrets this brutal and shocking crime.'

A favela is a crime-ridden slum, or 'shanty town', and lays on the outskirts of cities in Brazil. The areas have long been dominated by gangs who traffic illegal drugs.

Tourists brave enough to visit favelas have been known to have machine guns pulled on them, although some companies offer small tours.

In Rio de Janeiro alone, the number of people living in favelas increased from about 170,000 to more than 600,000 between 1950 and 1980.

In October Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro cracked down on criminals in Rio de Janeiro, leading to a huge surge in killings by police.

Some residents of Rio de Janiero and human rights groups see the lethal police raids as part of an illegal campaign to clean up historically violent neighborhoods across Latin America's biggest country.

In Rio de Janeiro, killings by police have climbed by 16 per cent this year, according to government figures, in a country with the world's highest number of murders.