In September, my wife and I bought our first home together, neither of us having owned a property before.

We both had a Help to Buy Isa with Barclays and each had the same value, just over £4,000.

On the morning of completion, our solicitor contacted us to say that one of our bonuses had been rejected and so at the last minute we had to pay over £900 when we were expecting to collect the house keys.

We tried querying it with the solicitors and with Barclays but no one could tell us why, beyond saying the bonus had been rejected as a Help to Buy Isa bonus had already been paid to me.

Computer says no: My £900 Help to Buy Isa bonus was rejected because I was told I had already had a bonus paid out. But I'm still a first-time buyer

However, prior to this, I've always lived with my parents and this has been my first H2B ISA and property.

I saved hard for that bonus and being a first home for the both of us it is a lot of money to be missing. A.N.

George Nixon, This is Money, replies: The Help to Buy Isa is now closed to new applicants but there will still be plenty of people who have previously opened one who plan on putting it towards their first home.

There are a couple of ground rules to be aware of.

Firstly, only first-time buyers are able to claim the 25 per cent government bonus on savings of up to £12,000.

This means if you've previously bought a home you can't gain a bonus, though if you are buying a property with someone who has owned a property or land before, but you are a first time buyer, you are still eligible to claim the bonus.

What's more, as in your case, if you're buying a home with someone else you can both open Help to Buy Isas and both claim bonuses, as you've done.

Finally, the bonus is paid on completion of the property, meaning you cannot put the money towards a deposit.

When trying to get to the bottom of your issue, the first port of call was Barclays, the provider of the Help to Buy Isa you opened.

Your account was opened, maintained and closed all according to the rules, but once the account is closed the bank's involvement ended.

Because the bonus is a government one, not a provider one, Barclays told us it was a matter either for your solicitor, who had applied for the bonus and who had already told you they didn't know why it had been rejected, or the Treasury, which manages the bonuses.

After that, This is Money went to the Treasury, to ask if they knew why this had become an issue.

The Treasury subsequently told us while it managed Help to Buy bonuses on a policy level, on an individual case-by-case basis it was actually in NS&I's wheelhouse and that it would pass us onto them.

It was only when we contacted 'the nation's bank' that all became clear and we finally got to the bottom of what had happened.

There was no conspiracy, no high level fraud, no property somewhere that someone had put your name and National Insurance number on, only simple human error.

Instead, when the application for the bonuses were put in, the second Help to Buy Isa bonus request – yours – was made for the same account as the first bonus request – your wife's.

They applied for one bonus using your wife's account details, which were paid successfully.

An application for a second bonus was made using the same account number 'which was correctly rejected by the system, as a bonus had already been paid for that account', NS&I said.

It is possible this happened because both you and your wife's Help to Buy Isas have the same sort code, though obviously not the same account number.

NS&I recommend contacting your solicitor, and asking them to resubmit the bonus request with the correct account number, explaining what has happened.

Hopefully, given this seems a fairly straightforward mix-up, you should get your money back.