Filmmaker Christopher Nolan is known for his enigmatic storytelling.

And now fans are getting a look at his mysterious new movie Tenet, starring John David Washington as a secret agent tasked with a trying to prevent worldwide conflict.

Drawing from the same dark style as previous Nolan hits like Inception and Interstellar, the cryptic teaser reveals a world where time twists and bends as Washington's character attempts his mission.



First look: John David Washington stars in the first official trailer for Christopher Nolan's mysterious new movie Tenet

'Don’t try to understand it,' one character warns Washington, who plays an apparently deceased agent resurrected to stop an unknown threat even 'worse' the a nuclear holocaust.

'Feel it,' the voice goes on as time warps before Washington's eyes.

Washington's directives are even more perplexing than the trailer itself.

Tasked to prevent something that could spark World War III, he's given almost no information.

Co-star: Robert Pattinson also stars in the film

Saving the day: Washington, who plays an apparently deceased agent resurrected to stop an unknown threat even 'worse' the a nuclear holocaust

Non-linear: Time warps before Washington's eyes

Beyond comprehension: 'Don’t try to understand it,' one character warns Washington

'All I have for you in a word,' he's told by a character played by Martin Donovan. 'Tenet.'

'It'll open the right doors, some of the wrong ones too,' he's advised.

As the action ramps up Robert Pattinson is introduced into the mix, seen driving Washington while another car chases them in reverse.

The duo can't believe their eyes as one car flips over only for the scene to rewind and reset, making it appear like the crash never happened.

Keyword: 'All I have for you in a word,' he's told by a character played by Martin Donovan. 'Tenet'

Friends in high places: 'It'll open the right doors, some of the wrong ones too,' he's advised

Fast and furious: As the action ramps up Robert Pattinson is introduced into the mix, seen driving Washington while another car chases them in reverse

Break in time: The duo can't believe their eyes as one car flips over only for the scene to rewind and reset, making it appear like the crash never happened

The clip closes alluding to Washington's seemingly preternatural ability to see time.

'What the hell happened here?' Pattinson wondered while the pair walks by a bullet-hole ridden glass window.

'Hasn't happened yet,' Washington explains before the teaser comes to a close with the ominous tagline 'Time runs out.'

Damage: 'What the hell happened here?' Pattinson wondered while the pair walks by a bullet-hole ridden glass window

Back to the future: 'Hasn't happened yet,' Washington explains before the teaser comes to a close with the ominous tagline 'Time runs out'

Cast: The film also features Elizabeth Debicki (above) Dimple Kapadia, Aaron Taylor-Johnson, Clémence Poésy, Himesh Patel, with Michael Caine and Kenneth Branagh

In addition to Washington and Pattinson, Tenet also features Elizabeth Debicki, Dimple Kapadia, Aaron Taylor-Johnson, Clémence Poésy, Himesh Patel, with Michael Caine and Kenneth Branagh.

Nolan fans can get a longer look at the film ahead of its release on July 17, 2020.

A six-minute clip of the movie is playing before select Imax screenings of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker.