Rachel Brosnahan was at Manhattan's 92nd Street Y community center on Tuesday to promote the third season of Amazon's hit comedy The Marvelous Mrs Maisel.

There she got candid about confronting pressures of show business that she had not expected.

'I’ve been told so many times I had to change my hair and learn to do my makeup and "buy different clothes" . . . It starts to get into your head,' she said.

Back to her roots: Rachel Brosnahan was at Manhattan's 92nd Street Y community center on Tuesday for a panel moderated by Glamour's Jessica Radloff to promote the third season of The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel

The star is a natural blonde, but told Us Weekly that she started dyeing it brown when she was 16.

Now, the 29-year-old star has gone back to her roots.

'And all those things are sometimes an attempt to fit a square peg into a round hole,' she continued. 'The right thing will find you.'

Beautiful: Brosnahan, seen here at the Beautiful Creatures premiere in 2013, has dyed her hair brown since she was 16 years old

The actress now takes the pressure of stardom in stride and has learned to be confident in herself.

'I would spend money I did not have fixing my hair and makeup because I thought it would help me out…it's not that serious.'

'If the role is meant to be yours, it will be yours.'

Baby Rachel: Blonde hair stuck out from under her colorful hat when a child

Sweet childhood: Here the star is in her Brownie uniform at home

A new look: With dark, short hair for an episode of Grey's Anatomy in her early 20s

On Thursday, the Emmy winner spread some holiday cheer on Thursday at the Covenant House in New York, a shelter that provides housing and other services to the homeless.

The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel star, who has been a homeless youth advocate for years and serves on the board of Covenant House, passed out gifts and met with fans.

The actress was all smiles for the charity event, donning a sky blue knit pullover with puffed sleeves and dark blue stripes.

Season's greetings: Rachel spread some holiday cheer on Thursday at the Covenant House in New York, donning a sky blue knit pullover with puffed sleeves and dark blue stripes

Sign here! The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel star, who has been a homeless youth advocate for years and serves on the board of Covenant House, passed out gifts and signed autographs

She paired it with black pants and lace-up black boots, and wore her blonde hair, her natural color, in waves.

Despite being on a promotion tear for the third season of Maisel, the star looked fresh and full of energy at the Amazon-sponsored event.

The Marvelous Mrs Maisel received eight Emmy nominations in 2019 and took home four. The third season of the Amazon Prime output premiered on December 6. The fourth season will likely premiere in late 2020.