Christmas countdown: Scroll down to find out how to send Steve Webb your own pension question

Former Pensions Minister Steve Webb is This is Money's agony uncle and we've compiled 12 of his best and most popular answers to readers.

Some are on topics people write in about week after week, while others are a little more off beat.

Steve, who is now policy director at Royal London, says: 'The last thing anyone needs at Christmas is money worries.

'So along with my friends at This is Money, we've put together a special "12 days of Christmas" selection of some of the columns I've written in response to readers' questions over the last few years.

'We've picked ones that can help you avoid being scammed, to understand the mysteries of the new state pension and how to make the most of your pension savings.

'I look forward to answering more of your questions in 2020.'

Keen readers can find a full list of Steve's past columns here. If you have something you would like to ask, scroll down to find out how to send in your own pension question.

1. I paid NI for 44 years but get a smaller state pension than people retiring now on £168.60 a week - how is that fair?

A steady stream of older readers write in to Steve asking how come they retired on a much stingier state pension than the full rate of £168.60 available today.

Here, he explains how the revamp in April 2016 was designed to be fair to everyone, and why people who reached state pension age before that don't need to feel hard done by.

'The move to the new state pension does not represent a windfall to people who have yet to retire,' he says.

2. How do I cash in my pension valued at £250,000 to buy a house and is it a good idea?

Many people like to say 'my property is my pension', having prioritised buying a home over saving for old age.

In this case, a reader who has a sizeable final salary pension wanted to use it to acquire a property.

Steve explains the pitfalls and risks of giving up a guaranteed income for much more uncertain returns.

3. I am 49 and want my pension now to pay my mortgage, but is this early release offer a scam?

Steve Webb: 'I look forward to answering more of your questions in 2020!'

Younger people often look at their pension and wish they could tap this source of wealth to rid themselves of a present day - and perhaps pressing - debt.

Over-55s can do this if they wish, although they might pay unnecessary income tax if they withdraw a particularly large sum in one year.

But if you are still under 55, the tax bill is far more punishing and you are also running the serious risk of being defrauded.

This is because any firms willing to handle this for younger savers are more than likely running 'pension liberation' scams.

And even if your entire pension is stolen by fraudsters, the taxman will still chase you for the heavy tax penalty owed on the vanished cash.

The reader here was already suspicious about the offer, and Steve successfully deterred them from at best making a very costly mistake, and at worst falling victim to fraud.

4. Why won't I get a full state pension after paying NI for 39 years - isn't that four years more than I need?

More readers write in to Steve asking about contracting out and the state pension than any other topic.

But no one is left hanging without an explanation.

Everyone who sends a question to Steve's inbox gets an automatic reply, which includes a link to a past column about this issue along with other helpful information.

5. Will 25% tax free pension cash be abolished - could it just go straight away in a Budget?

Governments like to tinker with pension tax relief, but the 25 per cent tax-free lump sum is very popular and any attack on it would trigger a rebellion, according to Steve.

Writing in October 2018, he thought the chance of the Chancellor doing something that radical, especially for people close to retirement, was 'close to zero'.

But he didn't rule out a future Government phasing in a change like a cap, with transitional arrangements for older workers who were very advanced in their retirement planning.

6. Can couples inherit state pension from each other, and how much might they get?

Husbands and wives often write to Steve about their concerns over one of them dying, and the financial impact on the surviving partner.

In this column, he explains that the rules on inheriting a state pension depend on when each spouse reaches state pension age.

Also on marriage, Steve sometimes gets questions from older readers who want to wed late in life and are worried this will affect their state pension. He replies to a widow in her 70s who had just remarried here.

Marriage and pensions: Husbands and wives often write to Steve about their concerns about one of them dying, and the financial impact on the surviving partner

7. Should I fake a divorce with my wife so we can split my pension and avoid a tax bill, then remarry her?

Steve and lawyer Fiona Wood of McAlister Family Law jointly tackled this question about shamming a divorce to divide a pension and dodge tax. Neither thought it was a good idea.

Many readers write in about splitting pensions either during a divorce, or years later if there was no financial settlement at the time. Steve replies to a question on this here.

8. I'm self-employed and want to set up a pension - how do I get started?

It's quite common for self-employed people to neglect pensions when creating a business, and then later need to sort out their retirement finances from scratch.

Steve gives this reader a to-do list on how to get saving for retirement when you don't have an employer to auto-enrol you into a pension.

Growing your fund: Could you become a pension millionaire, and what are the tax rules if you do save that sum?

9. I didn't know I was due a bereavement payout after losing my husband - why am I being refused it now?

A reader who was unaware she could claim bereavement benefit after her husband's sudden death six years ago wrote to Steve about her predicament.

Sadly for her, the Government's stance is that the onus is on the individual to pursue what they are entitled to and the time limits in her case have passed.

But Steve highlighted this case in the hope that it would alert others bereaved more recently, and he has since received feedback that it has done so.

10. I might become a pension millionaire: How much can I save tax-free?

Steve gives a rundown of the rules on the annual allowance and lifetime allowance for higher earners.

The lifetime allowance has since risen to £1,055,000, and it is due to increase to £1,073,000 from next April.

This is Money Editor, Simon Lambert, chips in to explain how more people could conceivably hit the £1million limit than realise it.

'Someone who saved £500 a month into a pension over 40 years and achieved an average 6 per cent annual return would end up with £996,000 - just shy of that limit,' says Simon.

11. Should I delay taking my state pension to get bigger payouts later?

Some people can benefit from doing this, but there are pitfalls to be aware of, Steve explains. You can also halt state pension payments after you start receiving them, a topic he covered here.

12. Why am I losing the inflation benefits of my Guaranteed Minimum Pension?

A reader who had Guaranteed Minimum Pension rights under an old employer's final salary scheme wrote in about losing related inflation-linked increases to her income in old age.

A state pension overhaul in 2016 affected people owed GMP, and Steve explains how the system worked before that and how the rules have changed.