A mother and daughter happily showed off their festive new looks after undergoing holiday-themed ambush makeovers as they both get ready to start new chapters in their lives.

Laurie Uline, 51, from Strongsville, Ohio, was in New York City celebrating her daughter Haley's college graduation when they were chosen for head-to-toe transformations on the Today show on Thursday — right in time for the new year.

Haley Uline, 22, wanted a makeover before starting her new job in January, while her mom was looking to update her look after losing 30 pounds.

Scroll down for video

Beautiful before: Laurie Uline, 51, and her daughter Haley, 22, received ambush makeovers on the Today show on Thursday morning, right in time for the new year

Stunning after: The mother and daughter from Strongsville, Ohio, are pictured with Laurie's husband, Haley's father, Ron, after their makeovers

'After just graduating from college I'm ready for a new look,' Haley explained, and she was undoubtedly thrilled to be sharing the experience with her mom.

'I don't think I could make a big decision in my life without consulting my mom, and I'm sure a lot of people can say that, but she's just my best friend in a lot of ways,' she said.

Laurie, meanwhile, shared she has 'lost some weight and been getting in the shape' over the past year and a half. She was ready to show off her figure in 2020.

'I'm in my 50s now, and I'd just like to, maybe, perk myself up a little bit,' she said before her makeover.

Laurie also reflected on her close bond with her daughter, saying: 'She became my rock when my husband was deployed a few years back. So, I think that really strengthened our relationship.'

Amazing: Laurie was in New York City celebrating Haley's college graduation when they were chosen for head-to-toe transformations

Ready to work: Haley wanted a makeover before starting her new job in January

The mom admitted it's a bit 'surreal' to see her baby girl all grown up and ready to start her first job out of college.

'In my mind, she's still a small child running around,' she said, 'but then I look at her and she's this beautiful young woman. I'm very proud of her, but I'm also very dumbstruck at how fast time went by.'

Haley said being able to get an ambush makeover with her mom is an 'amazing' opportunity, especially because they have been watching the Today show together ever since she was born.

'This is just an incredible experience for both of us,' she said.

Laurie was the first to step on stage and reveal her new look to her husband — Haley's dad, Ron.

Goal: Laurie was looking to update her look and show off her figure after losing 30 pounds over the past year and a half

Then and now! Laurie had a bright smile on her face when she stepped on stage to show off her new look

'Oh, wow. You look great!' he told his wife after removing his blindfold and checking out her transformation for the first time.

The mom was just as stunned when she turned around and checked herself out in the mirror.

'Oh, my gosh,' she said. 'I'm, like, kind of dumbstruck. My hair has never looked like this. It looks awesome.'

Celebrity hairstylist Louis Licari said Gad Cohen gave Laurie her 'great haircut,' explaining that she 'has very fine hair' and they 'had to bring the hair to a more appropriate length.

'What I did to it to add additional thickness is I used a semi-permanent color to add body and shine and a pinch of color,' he said, telling her: 'Laurie, you look just brilliant.'

New 'do: Celebrity hairstylist Louis Licari said Laurie's hair was cut to give it more body, and he added a semi-permanent color to give her locks a boost

Another reveal: Laurie's jaw dropped when she and Ron saw their daughter's new look for the first time on the show

Festive look: The college grad was dressed in a black A-line Kate Spade dress with a built-in necklace and classic black pumps

Today lifestyle correspondent Jill Martin made it a point to highlight Laurie's figure in a sparkly velvet tunic and leggings in celebration of her weight loss. She topped off the festive holiday look with funky zebra print heels.

After receiving plenty of compliments from Today co-hosts Hoda Kotb and Jenna Bush Hager, Laurie joined her husband as they waited for their daughter to come out.

Laurie's jaw dropped when she saw her daughter's new look for the first time, while Haley was equally taken aback by her mom's transformation.

'You look incredible! Haley gushed.

Before she even looked at herself in the mirror, the mother and daughter shared an emotional hug.

Aww! Laurie and Haley shared an emotional hug after seeing their makeovers

Natural beauty: Louis said Haley has naturally blonde hair, so he just 'had to brighten it up with a few highlights'

'You know what I love? She seems more excited to see her mom,' Hoda noted.

Haley, who was a bit speechless when she finally saw her makeover for the first time, smiled as Louis told her she looked gorgeous.

'She has natural blonde hair, so I just had to brighten it up with a few highlights, which are just so pretty,' he said.

Jill dressed the college grad in a black A-line Kate Spade dress with a built-in necklace and classic black pumps.

The segment ended with Haley, Laurie, and Ron smiling from ear to ear as they posed with the arms around each other.