Gary, of Derby, pictured with his daughter and stepdaughter

In our Money Pit Stop series, we ask an investing expert to give This is Money readers a free portfolio makeover.

Gary lives in Derby and is a manager at Rolls-Royce.

Now aged 47, he is aiming to grow his already healthy-sized investments so he can afford to retire at 62 or 63.

Over the same period, he wants to build up a university fund for his four-year-old daughter, and then eventually help her to buy a property.

In addition to holding a substantial number of shares in Rolls Royce, he has invested in a wide range of funds over the years - including the ill-fated Woodford Equity Income.

Gary tells This is Money he built up his portfolio as 'a complete novice with no advice', and would now love to get some expert help.

His risk appetite is high. He explains: 'I'm looking for maximum returns and I've still got 15 years or so before I plan to use any of my investments, so I feel I can take the risk and ride out any negative bear markets or recessions that the future may hold.'

FIND OUT HOW TO GET YOUR FREE PORTFOLIO MAKEOVER BELOW

Rachel Winter, associate investment director at wealth management firm Killik & Co, writes: You appear to have a good understanding of market risk and volatility, and I agree that your investment time horizon of 15 years means it is suitable to take risk.

That said, I do have concerns about your lack of cash.

Generally, it's advisable to hold six months' worth of expenditure in cash in case of any unforeseen expenses or perhaps even a change in employment.

Without a cash buffer in place, an unexpected bill could force you to sell out of one of your investments during a period of market weakness.

Rachel Winter: 'You currently hold a diverse selection of funds that have performed very well'

I also note that you have a relatively large mortgage outstanding and I would encourage you to consider the merits of paying this off more quickly versus adding to your investment portfolio.

Which is greater – the expected annual return of your investment portfolio or the interest rate on your mortgage?

At present it is likely to be the former, but it's likely that interest rates will rise at some point during the next 15 years so it is important to keep asking yourself this question.

Company share schemes can offer a way to buy shares in the company you work for at an advantageous price. However, it's important not to become overexposed to a single company.

As things stand at the moment, any downturn in the fortunes of Rolls Royce could potentially put a large proportion of your savings at risk as well as your job.

Gary's portfolio: How is it performing and what changes might he consider?

The current funds: Broadly speaking you currently hold a diverse selection of funds that have performed very well.

I'd keep an eye on how these funds are performing in comparison to their benchmarks, and also on the top 10 holdings of each fund.

Fidelity Special Situations, for example, holds oil companies BP and Royal Dutch Shell as well as building materials company CRH.

These industries are all highly polluting, and although they are trying to become more sustainable, I believe that investors are currently expressing a strong preference for more environmentally friendly stocks and this could potentially hamper the share price performance of perceived polluters.

Merian UK Smaller Companies has performed well, and I think this is an attractive area of the market to invest in now that we have a clearer sense of direction regarding Brexit.

The 4 per cent rise in the FTSE 250 on the day of the election result was a clear indicator of renewed confidence in the UK small and mid-cap space.

That said, the Woodford Equity Income debacle has demonstrated the dangers of buying illiquid assets within an open-ended fund structure, and the regulator is now reviewing this.

Although the Merian fund has not invested in unlisted companies to the extent that Woodford did, a closed ended structure such as an investment trust is arguably a more suitable vehicle for smaller companies.

You have two Lindsell Train funds, both of which have performed incredibly well over the long term. However, both funds suffered during the third quarter which highlights the danger of overreliance on a single manager.

Although I have a high opinion of Lindsell Train, I would try to avoid too much exposure to a single fund house.

Fidelity Open World is a fund of funds, and is therefore incredibly diversified.

While diversification is great for reducing risk, a portfolio with too much diversification will likely end up simply tracking the market.

Funds of funds will often have two layers of charges too, as they will charge to select the funds and there will also be management fees within the underlying funds.

This particular fund of funds has essentially matched the performance of its benchmark.

Other funds to consider: If you are happy to take more risk in search of higher returns, you could consider investing more in emerging markets.

Many of the underlying companies in the funds that you already hold will earn revenue in emerging markets, but there could be merit in a dedicated emerging markets fund.

The Newton Global Emerging Markets fund has significantly outperformed since its launch in 2011, and it offers exposure to a broad range of different emerging economies.

An alternative is the Fidelity China Special Situations investment trust, which, as the name suggests, focuses entirely on China.

A partial resolution to the US/China trade war is expected and would likely have a positive impact on Chinese equities. Taking a longer-term view, China's middle class continues to expand rapidly and this bodes well for the country's economy.

Another way to take more risk is to focus more on smaller companies.

The Smithson investment trust, for example, was launched last year and follows a very similar investment rationale to Terry Smith's highly successful Fundsmith Equity fund but with a focus on smaller companies.

What about Gary's investments for children?

The Junior Isa is a fantastic savings and investment vehicle for children, and has the benefit of converting into an adult Isa on the child's 18th birthday so the underlying investments will remain in a tax free environment.

One perceived downside of the Junior Isa is that the child will gain access to the funds at the age of 18 and the parent will not have control over what the funds are spent on.

The fund in your daughter's account has done well, but the value of the account is sufficient to allow further diversification. I would consider dividing the money between three different funds.

Finally, the Fidelity Index World fund in your stepdaughter's account is an exchange-traded fund that simply tracks the performance of the MSCI World index.

ETFs are a great low-cost way of investing in large companies where liquidity is not an issue. The ongoing cost of this particular ETF is just 0.12 per cent.

That said, active management fees have come down a lot in recent years and there are many actively managed funds that have significantly outperformed the market.

The information provided by our expert is for the purposes of this article and is not personal advice.

If you are at all unsure of the suitability of an investment for your circumstances please seek advice.

Nothing in this response constitutes regulated financial advice. Published questions are sometimes edited for brevity or other reasons.