Donald Trump's former White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was forced into a rare public apology for mocking Joe Biden's stutter during the latest Democratic debate.

The former official, now a Fox News political analyst, was criticized heavily for a tweet she published after Biden shared an anecdote about a young man asking him for help with the problem they share and appeared to either impersonate the young man, or lapse into his own stutter.

'I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I hhhave absolutely no idea what Biden is talking about,' she tweeted directly after the ex-veep talked at the debate about a child coming up to him and saying 'I I I I I I I can't talk, what do I do?'

Under fire on Twitter, she first doubled down, saying 'was not trying to make fun of anyone with a speech impediment. Simply pointing out I can't follow much of anything Biden is talking about.'

At the end of the debate, Biden himself tweeted: 'I've worked my whole life to overcome a stutter. And it's my great honor to mentor kids who have experienced the same. It's called empathy. Look it up.'

That finally forced Sanders - a mother of three who mentions being Christian in her Twitter biography, and who appears to be on the way to running for governor in Arkansas in the future - into an apology, claiming she had not known about Biden's stutter.

'I actually didn't know that about you and that is commendable. I apologize and should have made my point respectfully.'

Anatomy of a fiasco: How Sarah Sanders mocked Joe Biden, doubled down when twitter users pointed out that Biden himself is well-known to have overcome a stutter in childhood - and spoken of it frequently - then eventually apologized and claimed ignorance of his condition

Vice President Joe Biden went after former Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders after she mocked the stutter he had used to talk about a young kid coming up and talking to him about how to overcome their shared problem

JOE BIDEN'S NOT-AT- ALL SECRET STUTTER The former vice-president has made no secret of overcoming a stutter as a child, mentioning it frequently in his decades in elected office. He has described how he was nicknamed 'Joe Impedimenta' in high school and 'dash' because - bullies said - his speech sounded like Morse code. Biden has described fighting with his tormentors, and even being mocked by a nun at his Catholic school who he wrote in his memoir called him 'Mr. Bu-bu-bu-Biden.' He walked out of the class and his mother's response, he recalled, was not to criticize him but to walk him back to the school and tell the nun: 'If you ever speak to my son like that again, I'll come back and rip that bonnet off your head.'

Biden was talking about Americans who had touched him, including people on the trail who have experienced grief.

Biden has lost a wife, baby daughter and adult son, to a car accident and then brain cancer.

He's also talked openly about struggling with a stutter many times, attended and spoken at events held by The Stuttering Foundation, and most recently gave an interview to The Atlantic about it.

'I have scores of these young women and men who I keep in contact with,' he said onstage of fellow stutterers who he's encountered in his decades-long political career.

On Twitter, some people initially thought Biden was mocking the kid by impersonating him.

Biden's senior adviser, Symone Sanders, was quick to react.

'He was a kid who stuttered terribly and was demonstrating what he used to deal with as a child while talking about the way he connects with people about it on the trail. He definitely wasn't mocking!' she wrote, responding to a tweet that said the vice president was 'so f***ing stupid' and an 'old man.'

Sanders, the Biden surrogate, then went after Sanders, the Trump spokeswoman.

'Is this truly the example you want to set for your children Sarah?' Symone Sanders tweeted. 'It's sad you missed VP Biden talking about how he connects with people on the trail whether they struggle with a stutter or losing a loved one.'

Biden surrogate Symone Sanders was quick to explain why the vice president had used a stutter onstage

Symone Sanders then went after Sarah Sanders for her tweet, asking 'Is this truly the example you want to set for your children Sarah?'

Twitter users were quick to react, shaming former White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders for her mocking tweet, which she later apologized for

Twitter reacted with snarky comments about Sanders.

'Mocking Biden's stutter. #BeBest, ya'll,' wrote user Chuck Tyron.

User @brightertaes wrote, 'I may not fully support Biden but literally being a public official and making fun of his stutter/speech impediment he's grown up with?'

'This is what the Republican party is now? like a bunch of 4th graders making fun of people's disabilities? Biden stutters, so what?' asked @Crunk1977.

And many didn't believe Sanders' claim she didn't know about Biden overcoming a stutter.

'Everyone knows Biden had a stuttering problem for years growing up. Real funny Sarah,' said @RedSheri1, who likened Sanders' comments to President Trump mocking a disabled reporter. 'Shameful,' she commented.