She has been in hot demand following her I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! win, earlier this month.

And it looks like Jacqueline Jossa may have landed herself a new collaboration with online fashion retailer In The Style, if brand founder Adam Frisby's latest Instagram snap is anything to go by.

The In The Style CEO uploaded a telling post of himself posing alongside Jacqueline Jossa, prompting speculation she is the latest celebrity to sign with the brand.

New collaboration on the way? In The Style founder Adam Frisby teased the brand may have snapped up Jacqueline Jossa for a new collection as they posted together on Instagram

In the snap, Jacqueline cut chic figure while posing alongside Adam in an on-trend camel coat and boots, as he wrapped his arm around her.

Both wore huge smiles on their faces, prompting fans to speculate that Jacqueline could be bringing out a collection with In The Style very soon.

One fan commented: 'I spy a collab,' while another wrote: 'Next new range coming.'

Nothing has officially been announced as of yet and Adam made sure to keep fans guessing as he simply teased alongside his photo: 'Little catch up with the queen today.'

In demand: Jacqueline has found herself in demand after winning I'm A Celebrity this month

If Jacqueline does partner with the brand, she'll be following in the footsteps of a number of celebs who already have collections with In The Style, including Charlotte Crosby, Billie Faiers and former Love Island winner Dani Dyer.

It seems she too is keeping quiet on such rumours and simply added two love hearts alongside Adam's picture, which she shared to her own Instagram story.

Jacqueline, however, did tease that she has plenty to look forward to, without going into specifics, while recently sharing a glamorous selfie with fans.

Alongside a snap of her smiling, she cryptically wrote: 'Good things pending...'

'Good things pending...': While nothing has officially yet been confirmed, Jacqueline recently teased that she has plenty to look forward to in the near future on her own Instagram page

It comes after she was crowned the new Queen of the jungle during this year's series of I'm A Celebrity.

Jacqueline beat the likes of Coronation Street's Andrew Whyment and Capital FM's Roman Kemp to be crowned the show's winner, after becoming a favourite with viewers throughout the series.

While in the jungle, Jacqueline's marriage to former TOWIE star Dan Osborne came under scrutiny, as he was hit by multiple cheating claims while she was filming for the series.

Dan was forced to readdress allegations he had cheated on Jacqueline with Love Island star Gabby Allen, as Jacqueline joined Gabby's ex-boyfriend Myles Stephenson in camp.

Dan also found himself subjected to claims he'd had a threesome with his Celebrity Big Brother co-stars Chloe Ayling and Natalie Nunn - allegations he strongly denies.

Moving on: Jacqueline has drawn a line under the scrutiny her marriage to former TOWIE star Dan Osborne (pictured above) came under while she was in the jungle

In light of the speculation, Dan issued a public apology to his wife on Instagram, admitting that he has 'made mistakes that almost cost me my family', while assuring fans he and Jacqueline are now 'stronger than ever'.

It read: 'So after weeks, months and years of constant articles & rumours, some true, some very untrue I want to publicly say I know I have made mistakes.

'We all do as humans, but I've made some that have almost cost me my family.

'I have seriously learned from these massively, so I want to publicly apologise to my beautiful wife and my family for the mistakes I've made.

'I am the luckiest man in the world to have what I have with Jacqueline and my three incredible children and I will spend the rest of my life being the best husband and dad that I can be.

'Jac, myself and our families are excited for the future, one filled with love and happiness together. We truly appreciate everyone that has supported us as a couple, we are ending this year stronger than ever.'

Drama: Dan was at the centre of multiple cheating claims - all of which he strongly denies - and he has since insisted his marriage to Jacqueline is 'stronger than ever'

Jacqueline, meanwhile, addressed her relationship with Dan during an interview on ITV's Lorraine and insisted the couple are 'fine'.

She said: 'The thing is, it’s really funny because we've been going through it for two years - this isn’t new for me.

'It got brought up again because of Myles but at the same time, I was glad it made me think about it, I didn't have a choice but to think about it... but it helped me.

'I want to hit the restart button, it’s been two years of me giving him hell, he knows he’s done wrong, there's lots of stuff that’s not true that I can’t talk about for legal reasons, but we're OK.'

Jacqueline and Dan married in July 2017 and have two children together, Ella, four and Mia, 17-months.