He was one of millions of New Yorkers stuck in a seasonal squall the other day as a wild snowstorm battered the city.

And Bradley Cooper barely looked ready for any form of weather changes as he stepped out for coffee wearing a peacoat and sweatpants.

The 44-year-old actor appeared to be wearing a few different layers as he braved the chilly temperatures for a caffeine kick.

Bundled up: Bradley Cooper barely looked ready for any form of weather changes as he stepped out for coffee wearing a peacoat and sweatpants

Bradley buttoned up his short, navy blue peacoat along with a long-sleeved denim jacket worn underneath.

He pounded the pavement in black and gold shoes, and wore grey sweatpants with a host of patches along his leg.

The Academy Award-winner partially hid his face underneath a striped scarf and wore aviator lenses.

Out and about: The 44-year-old actor appeared to be wearing a few different layers as he braved the chilly temperatures for a caffeine kick

Peeks of his shaggy brown hair peered out from underneath a beige knit beanie as he made his way through city streets.

He managed to keep his hands full carrying a cup of coffee with an extra pair of shoes slung underneath his arm.

Just the day before, Bradley was spotted taking in the wild weather with his daughter Lea by his side.

Outdoor adventures! Bradley buttoned up his short, navy blue peacoat along with a long-sleeved denim jacket worn underneath

Bradley has been single since June, when he and Irina Shayk went their separate ways after a four-year relationship.

It was previously claimed 33-year-old Russian model had split with the Avengers: Endgame star because the pair rarely spent any time together.

'They were living totally separate lives. If he was in LA, she's out of town, and if she was in town, he was out of town,' a source said.

Following their break up, Bradley was linked to actress Laura Dern, 52, who laughed off the dating rumors saying: 'We're amazing friends. We're so lucky. And we're family.'