Lupita Nyong'o's favorite way to spread holiday cheer is through the art of surprise.

And the Kenyan raised actress did just that when she surprised a group of performers at the Renaissance Youth Center this week in the Bronx borough of New York.

Music With A Message, a band that originated from the youth center, got to perform one of Nyong'o's original songs with the 36-year-old talent, herself.

Holiday surprise: Lupita Nyong'o surprised a group of performers at the Renaissance Youth Center this week in the Bronx, NY

Lupita posted a six-minute video of the entire surprise operation onto her YouTube channel this morning.

'Pulling off a surprise is my favorite kind of holiday cheer! Had the best time sneaking up on the @MusicWAM youth band at @RenYouthCenter,' tweeted the actress.

The group, Music With A Message, a musical program offered by the Youth Center, consists of twenty-five members ranging in age from six to twenty-one years of age.

Music With A Message toured over the Summer and performed a number of original compositions, as well numerous cover songs.

Their latest cover song, Sulwe's Song, happened to be written by none other than, Lupita Nyong'o.

Special guest: Music With A Message, a band that originated from the youth center, got to perform one of Nyong'o's original songs with the 36-year-old actress

More than they bargained for: Originally, the group was told they were going to have their performance of Sulwe's Song featured in a video on Nyong'o's own YouTube Channel.

Sulwe's Song was inspired by Nyong'o's book of the same name.

Sulwe is the story of a young girl with dark skin who learns to 'love the skin she is in' and 'shine her light' on those around her.

Lupita, taking note from her novel's protagonist, aimed to shine her light on the children of the Renaissance Youth Center with a surprise appearance.

Music With A Message: The twenty-five person group toured over the Summer and performed a number of original compositions, as well numerous cover songs

Originally, the group was told they were going to have their performance of Sulwe's Song featured in a video on Nyong'o's own YouTube Channel.

But during the taping of their performance Lupita, disguised in huge shades and a black ensemble, entered the studio to watch the young singers.

Nyong'o, with tears in her eyes, watched the group give their all, while performing her song.

'My God, it's so beautiful!' remarked the actress.

Teary eyed: Nyong'o, with tears in her eyes, watched the group give their all, while performing her song

Woah: Nyong'o, smiling from ear-to-ear, entered the room and the members of Music With A Message couldn't believe their eyes.

Lupita was so drawn in by the performers' passion that she had to get in on the action.

Nyong'o, smiling from ear-to-ear, entered the room and the members of Music With A Message couldn't believe their eyes.

The pride in Lupita's eyes was undeniable as she made her rounds hugging all of the members of the group, upon completion of the song.

Self acceptance: Lupita expressed to the group that she wanted her book Sulwe to 'be about a dark-skinned girl who accepts herself'

Giving thanks: One member of Music With A Message (right) expressed how thankful he was that Nyong'o had been able 'shine some type of light on melanin skin and being who you are'

One member of Music With A Message expressed how thankful he was that Nyong'o had been able 'shine some type of light on melanin skin and being who you are.'

Nyong'o respond: 'There's tons of colors in the world and while I wanted Sulwe to be about a dark-skinned girl who accepts herself, it doesn't mean that she rejects someone who's lighter skinned than her.'

The US star elaborated by saying 'there has to be balance in the world' and that 'there's a place for each and every single one of us.'

No mistakes: The US star elaborated by saying 'there has to be balance in the world' and that 'there's a place for each and every single one of us'

In the conclusion of the 6-minute YouTube video, Lupita stood among the embers of Music With A Message as they all shouted: 'Shine your light for everybody!'

The Jordan Peele's US actress, thanked Google on Twitter for partnering with her to bring this surprise to fruition.

Nyong'o entered mainstream stardom in 2013 for her breakout role in Steve McQueen's film, 12 Years A Slave.

Red Carpet stunner: Lupita Nyong'o attends the 2019 premiere of Jordan Peele's 'Us'

Her performance in the film earned her the Academy Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role.

Lupita would go on to star in blockbuster films, such as The Force Awakens and Marvel Studios Black Panther.

Most recently, the Kenyan actress played a double role in Jordan Peele's psychological thriller, US, which premiered in Spring of this year.

Winston Duke as Abraham, Shahadi Wright Joseph as Umbrae, Evan Alex as Pluto and Lupita Nyong'o as Red in 'Us'