With a Senate impeachment trial looming, President Donald Trump has been quizzing advisors about the fate of White House counsel Pat Cipollone.

Trump has spoken to lawmakers and advisors about replacing the top White House lawyer, Bloomberg News reported, amid signals that Cipollone has stepped back from impeachment matters.

Cipollone wrote letters to Congress declaring immunity from participation for administration officials in the House impeachment inquiry.

White House Counsel Pat Cipollone exits the U.S. Capitol after meeting with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) on December 12, 2019 in Washington, DC. Trump has spoken to lawmakers and advisors about replacing the top White House lawyer

But he has not been identified as contributing to the president's 6-page letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi where he accused her of a 'spiteful' scheme that was an 'unconstitutional abuse of power.'

Officials have previously identified Cipollone as the figure who will lead the Trump defense in a Senate impeachment trial – although the terms and timing are now in question after a gambit by Pelosi to withhold two House-passed impeachment articles.

'It looks like that. Pat Cipollone,' Trump said Thursday when asked about his role in a trial. 'We have a couple of others that we're going to put in, but Pat's been fantastic as White House counsel.'

Other aides have hailed Cipollone, but often speak of his accomplishments in the past tense.

White House Counsel Pat Cipollone (2nd from right) leaves the Capitol after attending the Senate Republicans lunch on Wednesday, Dec. 4, 2019

Trump could make staff changes in the new year or after the conclusion of his impeachment trial

Cipollone, left, helped carry out Trump's total resistance to the Democratic impeachment inquiry. Acting Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney, right, is among those who failed to comply with Democratic subpoenas. He reportedly b

'Look, Pat is the White House counsel, he has been quarterbacking significant aspects of this work since the allegations first arose,' White House legislative affairs director Eric Ueland told CBS News. 'As the president said today, he will be out there in a lead position but the president hasn't finalized his team.'

Trump son-in-law Jared Kushner told Bloomberg: 'Pat's been an excellent adviser to the president and has helped the administration successfully navigate the endless stream of frivolous attacks that come toward this White House.'

Just last week, Bloomberg reported Cipollone would be heading Trump's defense.

The lawyer was born to an Italian immigrant father and graduated at the top of his class at Fordham University in New York. The practicing Catholic is active in a number faith charities, takes part in the March for Life, and has ten children.

He hauled in a stunning $7 million in 2017 as a lawyer for Stein, Mitchell, Cipollone, Beato & Missner, where he was a partner. He previously worked for Kirkland & Ellis.

Uncertainty about Trump's legal team comes amid reports that acting chief of staff Mick Mulvaney could depart following impeachment.

Mulvaney famously admitted and defended a quid pro quo in a White House press conference, telling critics to 'get over it,' then tried to walk back his comments. Democrats are demanding he appear as a witness over a delay in security funds for Ukraine.

Politico reported Mulvaney would step down after the trial. '

'He is there. I'll leave it at that,' one Republican close to the administration told the publication, stressing his diminished role.'He's like a kid. His role at the dinner table is to be seen and not heard.'

This week, Trump ally North Carolina GOP Rep. Mark Meadows announced his retirement, and he is expected to join the administration or Trump campaign in a key role.