A seven-year-old girl died suddenly from the flu just days before Christmas.

Isabella Lagronova had just celebrated Christmas jumper day at her primary school in Gateshead last Friday when she fell ill.

She fell unconscious at her home in Gateshead on Sunday and her grandfather - Lubomir, 55, gave her first aid to try and resuscitate her.

After a three-day battle, the schoolgirl died in her mother Zdena's arms on Tuesday.

Seven-year-old Isabella is pictured above in hospital shortly before her death just days before Christmas

Isabella Lagronova had just celebrated Christmas jumper day at her primary school in Gateshead last Friday when she became ill over the weekend. She is pictured above with herf mother

Zdena called for an ambulance and she went with her daughter to the Queen Elizabeth hospital (QE) in Gateshead before being transferred to the Royal Victoria Infirmary (RVI) in Newcastle where Zdena was told her little girl had Influenza B virus.

Isabella's heart stopped working, there was too much fluid on her lungs and her brain had swelled and she died on Tuesday.

Zdena has been overwhelmed by the support she has received through a Justgiving page to raise money for her daughter's funeral which she plans to have in the Czech Republic - where Zdena and her family are from.

Zdena, a full-time-mum, lives with her mum, Zdenka, 59 and dad and they were at home on Sunday when Isabella took a turn for the worst. Isabella is pictured above

Zdena, 33, said: 'Isabella was lovely, she was funny and so smart.

'She loved colouring, she was so creative. Her favourite animals were butterflies and then puppies.

'Her favourite book was twinkle twinkle little star and that was her favourite song too. She was my little star.

'We were supposed to go to see Frozen 2 and go ice-skating once she had finished school for the Christmas holidays. When I told her she said: 'Mammy I can't wait.'

'We were supposed to have plenty of time together when she finished school today.

'Everybody is broken. No-one can believe it.'

Zdena, a full-time-mum, lives with her mum, Zdenka, 59 and dad and they were at home on Sunday when Isabella took a turn for the worst.

Zdena said: 'She was fine all week. She had Christmas jumper day at school on Friday - she wanted one with Rudolph on.

'On Saturday she started coughing and vomiting but she had no fever. Then on Sunday she had one.

'We wanted to get to hospital and she fell unconscious in my arms.

'My dad was trying to give her first aid. We were trying to wake her up. Her eyes were shut.

'We called 999 and the ambulance came and took her to the QE and her eyes were still shut.'

After they did a scan, Isabella was transferred to the RVI, where, despite the doctors best efforts, Zdena was told just a couple of days later that Isabella was brain dead.

Zdena said: 'They said only the tube is breathing for her now.

'That was it. She died at 2:26pm in the afternoon on Tuesday.

'She died in my arms. I got into bed with her, I was holding her and they switched the machine off.

'When Isabella had passed away I asked them to take the tubes out slowly and I washed her, brushed her hair and put her pyjamas on.

'I took her handprint and footprint to remember her by.'

Zdena's friend, Debbie Craig, set up the Justgiving page to raise money for Isabella's funeral.

Zdena said: 'I am so grateful to Debbie for setting that up. We don't know how much the funeral is going to cost.

'I want to have the funeral in the Czech Republic.

'I moved here 15-years-ago and Isabella was born here. She spoke such beautiful English. She didn't want to learn Czech.

Zdena has been overwhelmed by the support she has received through a Justgiving page to raise money for her daughter's funeral which she plans to have in the Czech Republic - where Zdena and her family are from

'But all my family is over there, so if we did the memorial over here they couldn't come.

'All the money raised is going toward the funeral, for everything that she needs.'

Zdena said she was not sure when they would be able to have the funeral, given it is so close to Christmas and it would involve transporting Isabella an estimated 20 hours by car to Brno in the Czech Republic.

In the meantime, Zdena said they will find it impossible to celebrate Christmas.

She said: 'Isabella put the Christmas tree up.

'She only asked for three things; a torch, a tent and a LOL umbrella. She liked camping.

'She never asked for anything more. She was so sweet.

'We took all the Christmas decorations down because I cannot see it, it just doesn't feel right when Isabella's not here anymore.'

Zdena added: 'I cannot believe strangers are donating. I just thank everyone so much for everything.

'It means so much to me and my family.

'I just keep thinking she is going to come back, school will finish soon and I will go and pick her up.'