A former soldier in the British Army has appeared in court charged with terrorism offences for allegedly plotting to join Kurdish militia forces fighting in Syria and Iraq.

Daniel Burke, 32, spent around eight months fighting against IS with the Kurdish YPG between late 2017 and June 2018 before returning to the UK.

He was investigated by counter-terrorism officers upon his return to the country but no further action was taken against him.

Daniel Burke (pictured) appeared in court charged with terrorism offences for allegedly plotting to join Kurdish militia forces fighting in Syria and Iraq

Burke, of Baguley in Wythenshawe, Manchester, was rearrested on December 7 this year in Dover, Kent, by West Midlands Police.

He is accused of having links with Kurdish YPG fighters and banned terrorist group PKK.

He appeared at Westminster Magistrates' Court in London on Friday charged with two counts of preparing for acts of terrorism under Section 5 of the Terrorism Act 2006.

He appeared at Westminster Magistrates' Court (pictured) in London on Friday charged with two counts of preparing for acts of terrorism under Section 5 of the Terrorism Act 2006

He was also charged with funding terrorism under Section 17 of the Terrorism Act 2000.

The first charge relates to allegedly organising transport for a fellow British fighter to travel to Iraq via Spain to rejoin YPG forces, while the second relates to making similar arrangements for himself.

The third charge relates to allegations that he supplied former comrades in the YPG with cash and equipment via platforms such as PayPal.

The court heard that Burke was moved to return to Syria following President Donald Trump's decision to pull US forces out of Syria and the subsequent invasion of Kurdish-held areas by Turkey.

Burke served in the Parachute Regiment between 2007 and 2009.

Burke appeared at Westminster Magistrates' Court in London on Friday charged with two counts of preparing for acts of terrorism under Section 5 of the Terrorism Act 2006

Upon his arrest, he told police: 'I'm not a terrorist, you know I'm not a terrorist. I've done nothing but fight for this country. This is a f****** joke.'

Judge Tan Ikram remanded Burke in custody until his next hearing at Liverpool Crown Court in front of Mr Justice Sweeney.

A second man appeared at Westminster Magistrates' Court charged with terror offences on Friday morning.

Salim Yousouffi, 25, is accused of four counts of possession of a document likely to be useful to a terrorist relating to copies of al-Qaida propaganda magazine Inspire.

The documents were found on his phone on December 13 following an intelligence-led investigation by West Midlands Police, the court heard.

Italian-national Yousouffi had only been in the UK since September and had been living at an address in Small Heath, Birmingham, with his wife.

Prosecutor Kiernan Cunningham said there was evidence that Yousouffi had 'an entrenched jihadi, Islamic extremist mindset'.

Judge Ikram also remanded Yousouffi into custody ahead of a hearing at Liverpool Crown Court on January 17.