TACKIEST BEHAVIOUR

Recipient: Lauren Goodger

Which filter will make the coffin really pop? What’s the crematorium’s hashtag? Why don’t I do a boomerang of the committal?

Questions presumably considered in September by reality-person Lauren Goodger when she chose to share the funeral of her grandmother on her Instagram.

Her followers were treated to multiple stories of floral wreaths spelling out ‘Nan’, shots of the cortège and Lauren giving her best grief-riddled pout.

Although Instagram may be what pays the bills for such people, some occasions are not for capturing and sharing.

Lauren Goodger was awarded 'Tackiest Behaviour' for choosing to share the funeral of her grandmother on her Instagram

CHURLISHNESS

Recipients: Brexit Party MEPs of July ’19

During the opening of the European Parliament in July, the 29 Brexit party MEPs turned away and faced the back wall during the playing of the anthem of the European parliament, Ode to Joy.

It is good manners to remain silent (if you aren’t singing) and facing forwards for all anthems, whether they are your own country’s or that of another.

Whatever you may feel about the country or organisation in question, an anthem should never be used for childish political point scoring.

The only people who looked stupid were the 29 MEPs.

The Brexit Party MEPs of July 2019 were given a nod for their churlishness after turning their backs on the anthem of the European parliament

LEAST GRACIOUS

Recipient: John Humphrys

The helium had hardly drained from the balloons; there were still a few crumbly pieces of sheet cake left from the former BBC Radio 4 presenter’s leaving party, but that didn’t stop John Humphrys from quickly attacking the organisation from which he spent over thirty years accepting decent pay cheques.

Only two days after he presented his last edition of Today, Humphrys released a scathing attack on the BBC.

Any point he may have had was invalidated by his spectacularly thick choice of timing.

John Humphrys (pictured in October 2019) was awarded Least Gracious after his scathing rant on former employer the BBC

BIGGEST BREACH OF ROYAL PROTOCOL

Recipient: Camila Cabello

It comes to something when in a year that had two visits by President Trump to the UK, this award goes to Camila Cabello, a Cuban-born singer.

Last month she brazenly removed a royal pencil from Kensington Palace like a petty criminal and then used the crime to help promote her latest ditty on BBC Radio 1.

Theft is bad enough but using the sin as a marketing tool makes it even worse.

A pencil it may only be but it is the action that is most worrying. Today it’s a pencil, tomorrow the silver-gilt baptismal font. Lock up your sceptres, Ma’am!

Camila Cabello received a gong for the Biggest Breach of Royal Protocol after stealing a pencil from Kensington Palace. Pictured, on August 26 2019 at the MTV Video Music Awards in New Jersey

WORST SPORTSMANSHIP

Recipient: The Rt Hon Nicola Sturgeon MSP

Maybe it was the moonlight, maybe it was the haircut: but something in the early hours of the Friday after the election caused the leader of the Scottish National Party to forget the tenets of good grace.

The Scot clenched her fists and celebrated wildly in full view of cameras as the former leader of the Liberal Democrats lost her seat.

Sturgeon later said that she commiserated with Jo Swinson on a personal level but was happy for her party. Always a worry when a supposedly socialist politician fails to display any form of compassion.

The Rt Hon Nicola Sturgeon MSP was given the award for Worst Sportsmanship when she celebrated wildly in full view of cameras as Jo Swinson lost her seat

WORST DEPORTMENT

Recipient: The Rt Hon Jacob Rees-Mogg MP

For the next award we have more bad behaviour from one of our elected representatives.

Good on the Green Party’s Caroline Lucas for calling out the leader of the House of Commons, Jacob Rees-Mogg, for his poor posture during a debate on Brexit in September.

Rees-Mogg was flopped on the front bench of the Commons like a trout in a fishmonger’s window, showing no respect for his colleagues of all parties and democracy in general.

The Rt Hon Jacob Rees-Mogg MP was given Worst Deportment for his poor posture during a debate on Brexit in September

SPECIAL CONTRIBUTION TO ETIQUETTE

Recipient: Madonna

Despite behaving as though she was somehow above the ‘no politics’ rule of the Eurovision song contest earlier this year, Madonna has narrowly avoided the award for Biggest Rule-breaker.

Instead she receives this special award for her insistence that her concert audiences have a phone-free experience.

On the grounds that the artiste wants to have a more intimate experience with her fans, Madonna has asked that everyone enjoy the concert in the moment rather than worrying about capturing grainy footage and tinny audio on their phones.

If only more venues and performers would enforce this.