Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp has praised new signing Takumi Minamino and believes the Japanese star is capable of making both an immediate impact for the title chasers.

The 24-year-old Japanese star opted to switch to Anfield from Red Bull Salzburg for £7.25million, and will join up with his new teammates when the transfer window opens in January.

And Klopp already envisions the forward playing a crucial role for the Reds, and stressed that there is still time for Minamino to improve even more.

Jurgen Klopp believes Takumi Minamino can make an immediate impact for the title chasers

But the German also revealed that he has no plans to reshuffle his tactics to accommodate the club's newest addition.

'It's not reshaping, but Taki is for sure a player who can help us immediately in the short term and the long term, from an age perspective,' Klopp told ESPN.

'He's already really good. Everyone could see when we played Salzburg. But still [there is] potential there to become even better.

Liverpool had fended off competition from Manchester United to complete the signing

'It's not a competition, it's just to have different options in different moments and the door is wide open that Taki can come in the team.'

Liverpool had fended off firm competition from rivals Manchester United to snap up the Japan international, after Minamino impressed Klopp and his players during the club's Champions League meetings with Salzburg this season.

Current first-team stars Sadio Mane and Naby Keita both developed with the Austrian outfit.

'It has been a dream, my dream to become a Liverpool player. And I'm so excited that the moment has come true,' Minamino previously told the club's official website.

The Japanese star admitted it was a dream to sign for Liverpool and will make debut in January

'To play in the Premier League was one of my targets. I think this is the top-class league in the world; I was thinking if my career as a footballer progressed smoothly, some day I would be able to play in the Premier League.

'But I never thought I would be able to play in this team and I'm really happy about it. I'm looking forward to it.'

Minamino could make his debut for Liverpool against Merseyside rivals Everton in the FA Cup on January 5.