A whistleblower from the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) says airports in the US are becoming unsafe as security measures are weakened so lines can move more quickly.

Jay Brainard, the highest-ranking member with the agency in Kansas, told CNN in an exclusive that this is putting travelers and flight crews at risk of a possible terrorist attack.

Some of the alleged relaxed measures include officials reducing metal detector sensitivity, turning off technology on X-ray machines and keeping baggage belts moving when they should be stopped.

Brainard says he's concerned as the US braces for one of its busiest travel weekends with people visiting relatives and friends for Christmas and New Year's.

Jay Brainard, the highest-ranking member with the TSA in Kansas, claims officials are reducing security measures. Pictured: TSA agents help travelers place their bags through the 3-D scanner at Miami International Airport, May 2019

TSA claims improved wait times are due to more screeners and a spike in the number of people using expedited PreCheck. Pictured: Lines of passengers proceed through the TSA security checkpoint at Denver International Airport, August 2019

'My biggest fear is having something happen that costs American lives, and I didn't step up and put a stop to it,' Brainard told CNN.

'It's not a question of if, it's a question of when. We are long overdue for an attack.'

He says he's made his concerns known to the top brass at the TSA and to external federal regulators, but that little to nothing is being done.

According to the Los Angeles Times, wait times have improved, remaining the same even as the number of travelers passing through airports increases.

The TSA says this is due to more screeners and a spike in the number of passengers using expedited PreCheck, from two million in 2016 to nine million today.

But CNN reports that Brainard claims the improved wait times are due to officers not screening as efficiently.

He alleges that the metal detectors passengers walk through are on a setting of reduced sensitivity.

Brainard told CNN that this means agents could miss weapons, bomb parts and others items that seem suspect.

He also claims that the baggage X-ray belts have been ordered to always be moving in the PreCheck lines, meaning workers cannot stop to examine items.

Additionally, technology on X-ray machines in PreCheck that indicates suspicious items has been turned off, meaning it's up to the job of the agent to spot these potential threats.

In a complaint from 2017, Brainard revealed that employees were not being properly tested for colorblindness, reported CNN.

This is concerning because it means workers may not be able to differentiate between items on an X-ray machine.

Brainard says officials have reduced metal detector sensitivity and are keeping baggage belts moving through X-ray machines. Pictured: Maryland Governor Larry Hogan greets a TSA worker at Baltimore Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport, January 2019

A record seven million Americans are expected to fly between December 21 and January 1. Pictured: A traveler places her carry on items into a tray as a TSA agent helps her use the 3-D scanner at Miami International Airport, May 2019

Brainard is concerned for travelers at large and as the nation's airports prepare for some of their busiest travels days.

According to AAA, a record 115.6 million Americans will travel this holiday season, from Saturday, December 21 through Wednesday, January 1.

Nearly seven million of those expected to fly, the most since 2003.

The head of the TSA, David Pekoske, refuted the claims that officials are trying to reduce wait times by relaxing security measures.

'If you go back and you look at my testimony before the Senate Commerce Committee - my confirmation - so back in June of 2017, one of the first things I said is that security is the most important thing for TSA,' he told CNN.

Brainard, who has been with the TSA for 17 years, said he is not retaliating against the agency for any wrongdoing.

In his annual reviews, viewed by CNN, he is often marked as 'achieves excellence.' His latest included a handwritten comment that read: 'Great year, Jay - thank you!'

However, Brainard, who has an attorney, believes he is going to face retaliation from within the agency.

'I fully expect that the first discussion they're going to have is how they can fire me,' he told CNN.