An American engineer who was involved in a near-death car crash that shattered her back, ankles and knees has told of how she had various implants and enhancements to upgrade her body.

Self-professed 'transhumanist', Winter Mraz, 31, who currently lives in Liverpool, said the implants under her skin help her carry out day-to-day activities.

She has two microchips to open doors and send information, as well as LED lights in her arm and magnets in her fingers.

Scroll down for video

Winter Mraz, 31, an American engineer (pictured) currently living in Liverpool, has told of how she has various implants and enhancements to upgrade her body

A microchip in her right hand contains her business card information which can be easily transferred with a smartphone (pictured)

Now, Ms Mraz has two microchips to open doors and send information, as well as LED lights in her arm and magnets in her fingers

Ms Mraz said the process of transforming into a bionic woman began when she was forced to have medical implants following her accident.

'One of my kneecaps is medically 3D printed. That's an implant,' she told Good Morning Britain on Friday.

'I have the contraceptive implant, which nobody blinks an eye at.'

These operations helped to break down a mental 'wall', with Ms Mraz going on to augment herself further.

She got a small microchip in her left hand that opens her front door, in the same way as card machines detect card chips or an office's automated doors recognises employees.

The rest of her bodily changes have not been so practical, including magnets in her fingertips (pictured) which she says can help her detect electromagnetic fields and wires

LED lights embedded in her forearm (pictured) are activated by a magnet and shine through her skin. This is one of a number of gimmicks available to 'transhumanists' who like to 'upgrade' their bodies

Another microchip, this one in her right hand, contains her business card information.

A quick scan with a smartphone provides her details to anyone looking to network.

The rest of her bodily changes have not been so practical, including magnets in her fingertips and LED lights embedded in her forearm.

'My implants are proactive versus reactive,' she told GMB.

'Instead of waiting until something negative happens to me and then fixing it medically, I can now get rid of some of the worries I might have.

'Like, "have I forgot my keys?" I can't forget my keys, they're in my hand.'

The LEDs spark into life and glow when a magnet is passed over them.

Ms Mraz told the BBC in October that she is a magpie and is inherently attracted to sparkly things.

