Showing that you care about a person at Christmas doesn't have to cost a fortune. Sometimes, the funniest gifts and those that they most appreciate are the ones that you've picked up for a bargain.

Whether you're buying for one of your many relatives or need a last-minute Secret Santa present for someone at work, there are plenty of decent items that can be bagged and wrapped for under a tenner.

Here are eight inexpensive gift ideas to add a little shimmer, sparkle and joy to your loved one's Christmas without breaking the bank.

DWE Flamingo Print Make Up Bag, £8.99

Make-up lovers will adore this cute flamingo print portable bag to store all of their products in style.

There's an in-built organizer pouch to keep five different size make up brushes and there's an elasticated pocket for the bag owner to store their favourite products and easily locate them when they need to top up their look.

The main storage compartment features a cross-over clasp to ensure that palettes, creams and lipsticks stay secure during transit. At 24cm by 20cm, it will fit into most handbags and help the recipient stay glam from day to night.

Buy now on Amazon

Alphabet Water Bottle, £9.50

Help your friends stay hydrated on the move with this fun alphabet water bottle. The two tone geometric print looks effortlessly classy and the gold initial makes it special and personal.

Empty, it weighs less than ten grams so its easily portable, and features a secure leak-proof lid.

Your pal will be helping the environment by refilling it and reusing it time and time again. There are also health benefits as the bottle's rich colour stands out in bags or on desks as a reminder to drink more fluid.

Buy now on M&S

Unicorn Poo Bath Bombs, £6.99

It's more affordable than ever to create a fun spa-like experience at home with these ten unicorn poo bath bombs that will instantly make any bathtub more instagrammable.

The spherical bath bombs will fizz and foam when they're added to a bath, releasing a marble of colours. Your friend will feel magical as they bathe in water that looks like a rainbow.

As an added extra, they also give off an invigorating raspberry scent so that the bather feels fresh and clean for hours after their soak.

Buy now on Prezzybox

Sleek Make-up iDivine Eyeshadow Palette, £7.28

Smokey browns and golds were the eyeshadow colours that most models were wearing on the catwalks at the Spring/Summer 2020 fashion shows and this Sleek palette will give your glamorous friends a way to recreate the fashion model look for a budget price.

It contains 12 warm smokey eyeshadow colours, a mix of matte browns and gold shimmers. There's also a brush and a mirror for easy application on-the-go.

Despite the low price, Sleek's eyeshadow colours are highly pigmented, non-creasing and long-lasting so they'll stay on from dusk to dawn.

Buy now on Amazon

Textured Circle Pendant Necklace, £5

Fashion jewellery is a great budget gift option as a woman can never have enough accessories to finish off an outfit.

A textured circle pendant necklace will go with multiple outfits and add a simple feminine touch to their look.

In gold-tone metal, this necklace's pendant hoop has a beaten finish and is fixed on a slim chain. There's a lobster clasp and extender chain so they can wear it as low down or high up as the outfit dictates.

Buy now on Accessorize

Hotel Chocolat Dozen Gingerbread Men, £8

Chocolate is a guaranteed crowd pleaser and Hotel Chocolat's cute gingerbread men chocolates will delight young and old alike.

They deliver an essence of ginger in a delicious creamy way and will make you smile as you pop the festive looking fellows into your mouth.

Made from 40 per cent milk chocolate with cinnamon, ginger and nutmeg they taste like chocolate versions of Lebukuchen biscuits and are subtly spicy without being overpowering.

These are perfect for stocking fillers or for your Secret Santa. But be warned, you may need two packets as the recipient won't want to share.

Buy now on Hotel Chocolat

Agenzio Large Mint 2020 Diary, £9.80

If you've got a busy friend who could do with getting organised for 2020, help them out by buying them a gorgeous new diary.

The mint Agenzio 2020 diary has a week on a page making it easy for your pal to see what they need to do at a glance.

There's also an elastic closure for maximum privacy and an expandable pocket for all their loose paper and receipts. A ribbon page marker will mean they can easily locate where they are and add new items to their schedule.

Buy now on Paperchase

Batman Egg and Toast Cutters, £4.99

Looking for a gift that will make someone giggle? Buy them a Batman breakfast set to put them in a good mood from the moment they wake up.

It contains a Batman egg cup for holding a boiled egg, along with a spoon to munch it down with. The piece de resistance is a wing-shaped toast cutter so your lucky friend can make their own batwing shaped toast soldiers.

Breakfast is the most important meal of the day and this gift will help them to start their day like a superhero.

Buy now on Very

Check out our discount section for Christmas deals and offers.

MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.