YouTube star LadBaby has bagged the Christmas No1 for the second year in a row.

The blogger, real name Mark Hoyle, has secured the top spot with his novelty charity single I Love Sausage Rolls.

His rise to the top of the charts once again has saw him ward off stiff competition from the likes of Stormzy, Lewis Capaldi and Dua Lipa.

They did it! The blogger, 31, has bagged his second Christmas number one single, securing the top spot with his novelty charity single I Love Sausage Rolls

The festive song, a take on Joan Jett's 1981 hit I Love Rock 'n' Roll, will once again raise money for food bank charity The Trussell Trust.

Their number one follows hot on the heels of their 2018 success 'We Built This City...On Sausage Rolls', based on Starship's glam-rock hit.

The dad-of-two, 31, and his wife Roxanne recorded the Christmas track at Abbey Road Studios.

LadBaby, who hails from Nottingham, revealed that he had reached out to Stormzy and Lewis Capaldi to collaborate on the track, but neither accepted his request.

Festive family: The festive song, a take on Joan Jett's 1981 hit I Love Rock 'n' Roll, will once again raise money for food bank charity The Trussell Trust

However, they both shared messages of support to the vlogger, which he says were 'highlights of my life'.

Speaking to BANG Showbiz, he said: 'Lewis Capaldi was absolutely lovely, he replied to me and Stormzy tweeted me a couple of days ago. There are like highlights of my life now.

'These are global megastars tweeting me. It's lovely for them to support the song and get behind it.'

The star went on to explain that he doesn't know if he'll keep fighting for the Christmas number one spot, but he'll do so if the fans demand it.

He explained: 'I keep joking that I will do another song and do an album, but I honestly don't know. The reason we did it this year was seeing the ability we have to raise so much money just from a social media following.

Congratulations: Their number one follows hot on the heels of their 2018 success 'We Built This City...On Sausage Rolls', based on Starship's glam-rock hit

'I don't want to be a bad joke and a laughing stock. I think you have to know when to stop. But look, if there is a hunger for it, then why not.'

LadBaby, Roxanne and sons Phoenix and Coby recently appeared on This Morning, where they revealed their hopes of securing the Christmas number one.

Asked why they went down the sausage route once again, he said: 'I've always just loved sausage rolls and it started off as a bit of a joke last year and yes we thought we'd do it for a good cause, yeah why not?'

Deciding to choose the record this year was easy, explained Mark's wife Roxanne, saying fans intervened: 'Last year's song came from a tweet, this year came from the fans.

In demand: 'I don't want to be a bad joke and a laughing stock. I think you have to know when to stop. But look, if there is a hunger for it, then why not'

Missed out: LadBaby, who hails from Nottingham, revealed that he had reached out to Stormzy and Lewis Capaldi to collaborate on the track, but neither accepted his request

'We weren't going to do it until two months ago but we realised that last year that we raised £70K for emergency food packages last year and we thought we want to do it again'

Last year, Mark's ode to sausage rolls saw proceeds from the single go to The Trussell Trust, which supplies food banks.

According to the Official Charts Company, the song sold 75,000 combined sales in the last week, of which 93 per cent were downloads.

This meant it finished 18,500 units ahead of Max’s Sweet But Psycho, which claimed runner-up, while Ariana's single was forced into third place.

The track was the first novelty song to become Christmas number one since Bob The Builder’s Can We Fix It? in 2000.