He is set to embark on his first fight since appearing on Love Island this summer.

And as he prepares to get into the ring on Saturday night, Tommy Fury was seen gearing up for his boxing return alongside girlfriend Molly Mae Hague at the BT Studios in London on Friday.

The reality star, 20, and Molly were pictured looking rather bored as they sat alongside each other at Tommy's pre-fight weigh in, where he was seen posing shirtless with his opponent Przemyslaw Binienda.

Nerves kicking in? Love Island's Tommy Fury look slightly bored while sat with Molly-Mae Hague at his pre-fight weigh in at BT Studios in London on Friday

Clad in a black and white tracksuit, Tommy seemed focused on his comeback as he took a phone call during the event.

Molly was on hand to support her beau, but seemed a little uninterested as preparations for Saturday night's fight night got underway.

She was dressed casually in an all-black ensemble that paired together a turtle-neck jumper and tracksuit bottoms to match her boyfriend.

Back at it: The reality star, 20, is set to make his boxing return on Saturday night and was seen posing shirtless at the fight's weigh in while wearing Christmas-themed boxers

Killing time: He and girlfriend Molly seemed uninterested over the furore surrounding the fight, as they sat alongside each other while the weigh-ins took place

The blonde beauty wore a bomber-style jacket atop her outfit and donned a pair of chic trainers with statement white laces, while wearing her shorter locks down in a sleek and straight style.

Molly was seen posing alongside beau Tommy and his coaching team, including his father John Fury, at the weigh in, with the boxer looking confident ahead of his return to the ring.

Showcasing his ripped physique, Tommy was seen posing shirtless at the weigh in as he squared up against his opponent, Przemyslaw, while sporting a pair of Christmas-themed boxers.

Twinning: Molly was seen sporting matching tracksuit bottoms to boyfriend Tommy and his coaching team

Confident: Tommy oozed confidence as he posed with Molly and his coaching team including his dad John Fury (pictured right) ahead of his fight

His fight will take place before the main event of Saturday night's fight card that will see British boxer Daniel Dubois, who currently holds the British heavyweight title, take on Japanese heavyweight Kyotaro Fujimoto.

Tommy's return to the ring comes after his last fight back in March, earlier this year, before he appeared on the 2019 series of ITV2 dating show Love Island, where he and girlfriend Molly finished in second place.

Despite starring on a reality show, Tommy has assured fans he wants to be known first and foremost as a boxer.

Flaunting it: Tommy was seen displaying his ripped physique as he stepped onto the scales

Tense: Tommy was seen squaring up to his opponent Polish fighter Przemyslaw Binienda

May the best man win: Tommy's boxing comeback against Binienda will take place before the fight card's main event which will see British boxer Daniel Dubois take on Japanese heavyweight Kyotaro Fujimoto

Speaking to BBC Sport, he shared his hopes of becoming a world champion and said: 'The only thing I want in life is to be world champion. I am not interested in money, fame or anything else.'

Addressing his break from boxing to star on Love Island, Tommy added: 'Taking a few months out isn't really going to do me the most harm. It was something I wanted to do.

'It's paid off massively but I don't want anyone to forget what I did before that. I am not a reality TV person, I did it for a couple of months. I am a boxer, 100 per cent.'

Fighter at heart: Tommy's return to the ring comes after his last fight back in March, earlier this year, before he appeared on the 2019 series of ITV2 dating show Love Island this summer

Going for gold: Despite starring on a reality show, Tommy has said he only wants to be known as a boxer and hopes to become a world champion in the future

While Tommy has been focusing on his boxing career, Molly has used her new found fame to further her position as a social media influencer.

Since leaving the villa, fans have seen her partner with fashion brand Pretty Little Thing and recently launched her own fake tan line called Filter by Molly Mae.

Although, she recently confessed that the stress of being in the limelight has had a negative impact on her skin.

Molly, who often shares her beauty tips and tricks with fans on social media, revealed that she now suffers from stress-induced eczema.

In a new YouTube video, Molly explained why it was important for her tanning product to be vegan and cruelty-free, as well as fit for 'sensitive skin'.

She said: 'I've actually got really sensitive skin, I've got eczema. I never used to have sensitive skin, but maybe being home the last few months maybe stress has caused me to develop eczema.'