Seven patients with vaping-related lung illness died shortly after they were discharged from hospitals and another 31 had to be readmitted just days after they were released, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said Friday.

CDC principal deputy director Dr Anne Schuchat called this a 'concerning new phenomenon.

US officials are also more 'confident' than ever that the vitamin E acetate, a diluting agent used in many THC vaping products, is the 'cause' of the majority of cases in the 'explosive outbreak' of the condition they call EVALI, Dr Schuchat said.

She also noted the data on vitamin E acetate was taken from 16 states - indicating that it's a widespread problem, not just products from one manufacturer or seller.

As of Friday, vaping had killed 54 people in 27 states (red) officials said. Another 2,506 Americans have been hospitalized after using e-cigarettes

'This is a serious clinical condition affecting young people across the country and it's completely preventable,' Dr Schuchat said.

'It is clear that the outbreak represents a new phenomenon and not a recognization of a common syndrome that had evaded [our] attention.'

More than 2,500 Americans have been hospitalized with vaping-related lung illnesses and 54 have died, US officials confirmed Thursday.

The CDC said that people have fallen ill in all 50 states and deaths have been reported in 27 states, plus Washington, DC.

Vitamin E acetate - believed to be used as a cutting agent in illicit vaping products containing marijuana components - was detected in 48 out of 51 samples of lung tissue from EVALI patients.

The samples came from 16 different states, 'suggesting this was not simply a single local supplier of products,' said Dr Schuchat.

It also appears to be a new phenomenon. She said that Minnesota authorities who tested samples of illicit vaping products found vitamin E acetate in products seized in 2019, but not in those seized in 2018.

Although patients in general and the readmitted patients in general by and large used THC products, there are some instances that appear to be linked only to vaping nicotine products.

Patients who were readmitted returned to hospitals an average of just four days after they were initially discharged.

People with other chronic diseases - particularly heart and pulmonary diseases, sleep apnea and diabetes - were 'significantly more likely to be readmitted,' Dr Schuchat said.

CDC officials are now urging doctors to follow up with EVALI patients within 48 hours of discharge, to make sure that their symptoms are not worsening.

She added that older patients are likely at higher risk of readmission as well.

But vaping illnesses remain unusual for being conditions that strike younger patients.

'When young people are admitted to intensive care units for damaging their lungs...parents really need to take this seriously,' Dr Schuchat said.

Vaping has now killed people in:

Alabama

California

Connecticut

Delaware

the District of Columbia

Florida

Georgia

Illinois

Indiana

Kansas

Louisiana

Massachusetts

Michigan

Minnesota Mississippi

Missouri

Montana

Nebraska

New Jersey

New York

Oregon

Pennsylvania

Rhode Island

South Carolina

Tennessee

Texas

Utah

Virginia

About a third of US high schoolers now report using e-cigarettes, the CDC said in November.

Several states have passed flavored vaping bans, the Trump Administration has hinted that it would do the same - and then that it wouldn't - and scores of individuals, cities and states have filed suit against vape megalith, Juul Labs.

Yet, recently, a group of experts warned that over-zealous bans could do simply push people who have quit smoking back to cigarettes.

They also encouraged a distinction between nicotine e-cigarette products and THC ones, which have been implicated in the majority of vaping illnesses.

While nicotine is water soluble, THC must be diluted with oils, like vitamin E acetate.

South Korean officials reported they found the maligned additive in a number of e-cigarette products, including Juul, which denied the claim, according to Reuters.