The supposed nude pictures of Golden State Warriors star Stephen Curry that leaked onto Twitter are 'absolutely' fake, his agent has told the Daily Mail.

Twitter erupted Friday morning as the purportedly hacked pictures circulated social media. The bogus photographs include a shot of someone that looks like Curry wearing a towel around his waist, but while some naked male is seen in the other shots, that subject's face cannot be seen.

One particular picture shows the body of a man with Washington Redskins boxers dropped to his ankles, which suggests the subject of the photo is not Curry, a die hard Carolina Panthers fan.

It remains unclear where the fakes originated and who created them.

A Warriors spokesman told the Daily Mail that he would speak with Curry to gain further confirmation that the pictures are phony.

Since then, the San Francisco Chronicle has reported that the team does not intend to comment on the matter publicly, but a Warriors source did tell the newspaper 'of course it's not him.'

The supposed nude pictures of Golden State Warriors star Stephen Curry that leaked onto Twitter are 'absolutely' fake, his agent has told the Daily Mail

The 31-year-old Curry has been out injured with a broken hand, so he is not currently required to speak to the media, per NBA rules.

Several fans joked that they assumed Curry's hand was recovering when they saw the All-Star's name trending on Twitter.

'Sees Steph Curry trending: Maybe he's ahead of schedule on his rehab!' wrote one Twitter user.

'Oh, this is cool,' added another. 'Steph Curry is trending! I guess he's back from his surgery and is feeling b--.'

The New York Post and USA Today initially reported that Curry's wife Ayesha was also purportedly in the pictures, but each of the spurious shots included only one person.

In June, Ayesha Curry told E! that she was worried someone could hack his phone and obtain the couple's private pictures.

'Absolutely,' Ayesha said. 'He won't delete them off of his phone, he's not that secure with his phone, so it's actually one of the scariest things in my life.'