He may be 6ft5ins and weigh a well-muscled 260lbs now but when Dwayne The Rock Johnson was a baby he looked like a cute little thing.

The movie star proved that on Thursday when he shared a throwback snap of himself at seven months old. He said he was 'just a pebble.'

The tot was dressed in a Santa onesie complete with a red hat as he crawled on the floor in front of a Christmas tree with gifts underneath it.

'Just a pebble': Dwayne The Rock Johnson shared this sweet throwback snap of himself at his first Christmas at 7 months old. 5 months later I hit puberty. It was a good Christmas'

The 47-year-old action star captioned it: 'My first Christmas at 7 months old. Hayward, CA. 5 months later I hit puberty. It was a good Christmas, my friends.'

Famous for his sense of humor, he added the hashtag 'justapebble.'

Dwayne also took to Instagram to share a hilarious video with good news for all his Jumanji fans.

In it, his co-star Kevin Hart is dressed as Santa while an obviously irritated Dwayne towers over him as Dwelf, wearing a green jerkin with a red collar and bells, plus a matching bobble hat.

Making their entrance: Dwayne and Jumanji: The Next Level co-star Kevin Hart dressed as Santa and Dwelf to share news of a surprise for everyone who sees the movie this weekend

Well, there's a surprise: Kevin played Santa while Dwayne was an elf...errr, sorry... a DWelf

Laying down the law: Santa ordered Dwelf to take his sunglasses off and get to work packing up toys, saying 'you work for me now'

Things aren't good between the two, as evidenced when Santa Kevin tried to trip up Dwelf, who looked as if he was going to flatten Santa.

It only got worse when Santa told him to take his sunglasses off. The Rock refused, replying: 'I am a cool elf, I'm a Dwelf.'

Angry Kevin retorted, 'Just because you put a D W in front of a word doesn't make it a thing,' at which Dwelf laughed, as Kevin continued: 'You know what, you work for me. You box up the toys, you do what I say, take the glasses off and get ready to work.'

No way: The Rock didn't take kindly to that, saying, 'I am a cool elf, I'm a Dwelf' as he refused to remove his shades of do any work

Getting angry: The Dwelf snatched Santa's signature hat off his head

Good arm: He through it as far as he could, saying, 'Santa can go get his hat. How about that'

'Santa can go get his hat,' The Rock said as he reached over, grabbed it and threw it as far as he could. 'How about that.'

Their blockbuster movie Jumanji: The Next Level is in theaters and Dwayne added the caption: 'Big Santa aka @kevinhart4real and The Dwelf are surprising JUMANJI fans in theaters THIS WEEKEND!!

'Just wait til you see the gifts we’re bringing you! This is gonna be FUN.' And he added the hashtags TheaterSurprise and SpiritOfChristmas

Meanwhile, there really is no need to bribe people to go see the movie. It has already made just over $226 million globally since its release on December 13, making it the highest US debut for any comedy in December.