MS-13 has been declared 'inoperable' in New York after police arrested 96 members in a sting that is believed to be the largest ever take down of the violent street gang in the state.

The Suffolk County District Attorney announced the charges against the 96 MS-13 members and associates during a press conference in Long Island on Friday.

The arrests stem from a two-year investigation that saw authorities thwart seven attempted murder plots and countless other acts of violence.

A number of drugs and weapons, including machetes, were seized from MS-13 gang members during the operation.

The MS-13 arrests stem from a two-year investigation that saw authorities thwart seven attempted murder plots and countless other acts of violence. A number of drugs and weapons, including machetes, (pictured above) were also seized from MS-13 gang members

Of those arrested, 45 alleged gang members and 19 associated drug suppliers were charged with murder conspiracy, drug trafficking, gun possession and gang violence charges.

Authorities say the lengthy operation has dealt a significant blow to MS-13 leadership in New York with nine leaders arrested.

During the investigation, authorities say they learned that MS-13 were trying to building up their presence in Long Island by trying to recruits gang members from other states.

In addition to the 96 people charged, the Drug Enforcement Administration made more than 100 additional arrest - in New York and El Salvador.

'The goal of this investigation was to deliver a major blow to the gang’s leadership, operations and recruitment in the our region,' district attorney Tim Sini said.

Suffolk County District Attorney Tim Sini shows off one of the machetes that was seized from MS-13 during the two-year investigation

MS-13 has been declared 'inoperable' in New York after police arrested 96 members in a sting that is believed to be the largest ever take down of the violent street gang in the state (file photo)

The violent gang are behind several murders in region, including the 2016 deaths of teenagers Kayla Cuevas and Nisa Mickens who were fatally attacked with baseball bats and machetes.

The international gang was founded in Los Angeles in the 1980s by immigrants fleeing a civil war in El Salvador.

MS-13 now has 8,000-10,000 members in the U.S. alone - most of Salvadoran, Guatemalan and Honduran descent.

While MS-13 has been around for decades, law enforcement officials on Long Island say the region has seen a unique surge in activity since 2015 - the same time the area received a major influx of unaccompanied minors from Latin America.

MS-13 leaders in the U.S. often communicate and take orders from gang leaders in El Salvador.

Long Island communities have been strongly impacted by the violence and suffering spread by MS-13.

Police suspect the gang was involved in at least 25 killings on Long Island between 2016 and 2018.

The gang’s motto is ‘mata, viola, controla’ which means ‘kill, rape, control'.