Adalia Rose got the surprise of her life this week. Jennifer Lopez's designer Michael Costello gifted the YouTube star two dream dresses for her 13th birthday.

One of the gowns was a Princess Jasmine costume from the film Aladdin while another was a one-shoulder fuchsia showstopper that looks like something Jenny From The Block would wear on the red carpet.

The stylist presented the hand-made dresses to the teen at her home in Austin, Texas this month.

Rose has become a social media sensation for having a spunky attitude even though she suffers from Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome, a rare genetic condition that makes her body age at least eight times faster than normal and has given her the look of an old woman. It affects less than 500 people worldwide.

New duds: Adalia Rose got the surprise of her life this week. Jennifer Lopez's designer gifted the YouTube star several of her dream dresses for her 13th birthday

Her situation: The teen from Austin, Texas has Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome, a rare genetic condition that makes her body age faster than normal and has given her the body of an old woman

Adalia loves to dress up which she talks about with her millions of followers online.

She has more than 13 million Facebook followers and nearly 2.5 million YouTube subscribers.

Videos of her dancing to Vanilla Ice and PSY's Gangnam Style were an instant hit when they went viral in 2015.

Michael shared a video on his Instagram account where he can be seen presenting Rose with a Princess Jasmine outfit while in the living room of her home.

Her top star: And she is a Lopez fan. 'She said she loves J. Lo, and anything that J. Lo wears she likes to wear, and she loves flowy fabrics and sparkles,' he said. Jennifer in September

Good gifts: Michael shared a video on his Instagram account where he can be seen presenting Rose with a Princess Jasmine outfit

Mr Good Guy: 'People always ask me who my favorite celebrity is to dress, and I always struggle thinking of a name,' he said in his caption. 'For me, the most rewarding part of it all is how my dress makes them FEEL'

'People always ask me who my favorite celebrity is to dress, and I always struggle thinking of a name,' he said in his caption.

'For me, the most rewarding part of it all is how my dress makes them FEEL.

'When someone wears Michael Costello, I want them to feel beautiful, confident, and absolutely fearless!

'Thank you so much Adalia for giving me the chance to dress you!' he added.

Another creation: 'Thank you so much Adalia for giving me the chance to dress you!' he added. Here she is modeling her one-shoulder gown

The two have been friends for several months after they first met in Texas during a meet and greet.

'When I first met you, your bright smile and warm heart brought so much joy.

WHAT IS PROGERIA? Progeria is characterized by the appearance of accelerated aging in children, according to the Progeria Research Foundation. Symptoms include a lack of growth, loss of body fat and hair, stiff joints and hip dislocation. The genetic mutation occurs randomly and isn't inherited. Most kids with progeria look healthy when they're born, but they start to show signs of the disease during their first year, according to WebMd. Babies with progeria do not grow or gain weight normally. Researchers say progeria is caused by a mutation in a gene called LMNA which produces the Lamin A protein, used to hold the nucleus of a cell together. There is no cure for progeria, but medications may alleviate symptoms or delay progression.

'You've inspired me to create and reminded me of the reason why I got started in the first place. Thank you for just being you wishing you a very happy birthday.'

Adalia says 'Oh my god' as she unwraps the boxes.

'I'm having a moment,' she said. She is then seen dancing in the dress.

There is also a fuchsia one-shoulder dress that Costello made just for her.

'They are so perfect and I even want to wear them while I'm just at home!' Adalia wrote in the Instagram caption.

'Michael Costello you did such an amazing job making everything I wish you can make all my clothes! I love you so so so much and I send you a million hugs.'

Costello told People he is a big fan of Rose.

'It was the cutest. She was so adorable and so sweet,' he said.

'She's so tiny that you instantly think she's going to be like a baby, and you want to baby her. But I didn't realize that she's 13 years old, and she's like any other savvy 13 year old. She was a little sassy!'

She inspires him: 'You've inspired me to create and reminded me of the reason why I got started in the first place. Thank you for just being you wishing you a very happy birthday,' he also said

Happy to do it: 'Knowing that we have the capability to make something for them and to celebrate them and to make them feel good about themselves… I just wanted to make her birthday dreams come true,' he added

And she is a Lopez fan.

'She said she loves J. Lo, and anything that J. Lo wears she likes to wear, and she loves flowy fabrics and sparkles,' he said.

'And I said, 'Okay, you're my ideal client. You are the Michael Costello girl.'

'Knowing that we have the capability to make something for them and to celebrate them and to make them feel good about themselves… I just wanted to make her birthday dreams come true,' he added.

'I feel like I've dressed everyone. It's an incredible milestone for my career. I feel like I've done so much and I've been blessed so much, and now what I really want to do is start meeting more people like Adalia… What's it to me? A couple of days on the sewing machine? A few hundred dollars' worth of fabric and time, just to make someone else's dream come true.'

She takes on the challenge with a smile: Progeria is characterized by the appearance of accelerated aging in children, according to the Progeria Research Foundation. But Rose doesn't let it get her down

Adalia's mother, Natalia Pallante, 30, talked to the New Zealand Herald in 2018 about her daughter.

'When Adalia was born, I think it was she was like a month old and they weren't happy with her growth,' she confided.

'That was one of the symptoms that first popped up and then it was also that the skin on her tummy was really tight and just different looking. She was diagnosed at maybe like three months old. That's when the real changes started happening. She started losing her hair and her little veins started showing up more and her skin started thinning out a lot more.'

Family: Adalia lives with her mother, stepfather Ryan Pallante and her other siblings in Texas

It was not an easy time as she was a single mom. 'When I got the diagnosis I was alone. It was just her and I and I honestly felt lost.'

The average life expectancy for a child with Progeria is 13 years old but her mother doesn't discuss that with Adalia because she doesn't want her child to live in fear.

'She sees herself as being different. Sometimes there's days where she says "I wish I was taller, I wish I had hair, I wish I looked like everybody else, I wish I could do what everybody else can do."

'But then she'll be like "Who needs hair anyways, I have a bunch of wigs, I can have different hair everyday."

'My favourite thing about being her mom is just watching her grow and seeing just how different she is from everyone. She is just so rambunctious and everyday is something new with her, so it's always exciting.'

Adalia lives with her mother, stepfather Ryan Pallante and her siblings in Texas.