Her mother, two brothers, sister and baby nephew were alerted by her screams

Kelly Mary Fauvrelle allegedly attacked in her Thornton Heath home on June 29

The ex-partner of a heavily pregnant woman who was stabbed to death in her own home has pleaded not guilty to her murder.

Royal Mail worker Kelly Mary Fauvrelle, 26, was allegedly attacked in the bedroom of her home in Thornton Heath, south London, on June 29.

Her family, who were in the house at the time, were alerted by Ms Fauvrelle's screams at about 3.30am.

Police were scrambled to the pregnant woman's house by paramedics after her sister then found her in her bedroom with knife wounds.

Royal Mail worker Kelly Mary Fauvrelle, 26, was allegedly attacked in the bedroom of her home in Thornton Heath, south London, on June 29

Her family, who were in the house at the time, were alerted by Ms Fauvrelle's screams at about 3.30am

She suffered a cardiac arrest and died shortly afterwards. Medics delivered her baby, Riley, and he was rushed to hospital, but he tragically died days later on July 3.

Aaron McKenzie, 25, appeared at the Old Bailey via video link from custody today, wearing black jogging bottoms and a sweater.

The defendant, of Peckham, south-east London, pleaded not guilty to the murder of Ms Fauvrelle, who was eight months pregnant.

Aaron McKenzie, 25, appeared at the Old Bailey via video link

He also denied the manslaughter of her baby Riley and possession of a knife.

Ms Fauvrelle was eight months pregnant when she was knifed to death and became the 65th person to be murdered in the capital so far this year.

When baby Riley died four days later, he became London's 67th murder victim of 2019.

A man was seen on CCTV sprinting away from her home at 3.30am on June 29.

He used a communal passageway to enter the garden at around 3.15am and then got into the kitchen via an open window or unlocked door, the Met Police said.

The victim's mother, two brothers, sister and baby nephew were sleeping upstairs when she was knifed to death.

Her family were woken by her screams but never saw the alleged killer who fled as they rushed downstairs and was seen sprinting away down Raymead Avenue, Thornton Heath towards Colliers Water Lane at 3.26am.

Ms Fauvrelle's older sister found the victim with multiple stab wounds in the property's dining room at the rear of the property, which had been converted into a bedroom for her and a nursery for her son whose cot was ready for him.

Police released CCTV of a man seen minutes before the alleged murder calmly strolling towards her property in south London

The same man is then seen running at top speed away from Ms Fauvrelle's home

Riley, who was delivered by paramedics at the scene, died in hospital on July 3 with his father by his side.

Judge Mark Lucraft QC set a trial date at the Old Bailey for June 29 next year, and it is expected to last up to four weeks.

The judge set a further hearing for March 20 and remanded the defendant in custody.

Members of Ms Fauvrelle's family attended court for the short hearing.