He's settling into retirement.

Gabrielle Union and her husband Dwyane Wade have packed up their family and are heading out on a family vacation for the holidays - their first together since the basketball star retired from the game.

The 47-year-old stunner shared some sweet snaps from their swanky private airport suite on Friday and warned fellow travelers that their baby Kaavia could be an in-flight handful.

Family time: Gabrielle Union and her husband Dwyane Wade have packed up their family and are heading out on a family vacation for the holidays but one-year-old Kaavia was not in the mood

Most of the Union-Wade family appeared ready to take to the skies, however, 13-month-old Kaavia wasn't having it.

'1st holiday family trip since @dwyanewade retired... Pray for us @kaaviajames has been on 10 soooooo I apologize in advance to everyone on the plane.

'We have complimentary earplugs,' Gabrielle captioned an Instagram post.

She and her hubby posed for a snap in the travel gear with the baby who wore a big neck pillow on her shoulders.

Get ready: The 47-year-old stunner shared some sweet snaps from their swanky private airport suite on Friday and warned fellow travelers that their baby Kaavia could be an in-flight handful

'1st holiday family trip since @dwyanewade retired... Pray for us @kaaviajames has been on 10 soooooo I apologize in advance to everyone on the plane. We have complimentary earplugs'

A glowing and makeup free Gabrielle said in an Instagram video: 'Alright, it's our first holiday family travel. How you guys feeling? Feeling confident?'

A glowing and makeup free Gabrielle said in an Instagram video: 'Alright, it's our first holiday family travel. How you guys feeling? Feeling confident?'

'Good,' replied 12-year-old Zion who walked across the screen.

One person who was not so good ... Kaavia. The adorable toddler sat on the ground fussing and crying.

Dad Dwyane Wade chimed in: 'She's not feeling it right now.'

Already over it: Kaavia sat on the ground fussing and crying while the family kicked off their vacation

Living the life: The Union-Wades fly with a service called The Private Suite which charges thousands to give their well-heeled clients a smooth travel experience

Swanky: A team of eight people is assigned to every member of the luxury service and they get them to their plane on the tarmac via a private car and use a special TSA screening away from the crowds

While the baby might have been fussy, the stars seemed perfectly content during their holiday travel.

It might be because they didn't have to deal with the usual hustle and bustle and stress that the average person puts up with.

The Union-Wades used a service called The Private Suite which charges thousands to give their well-heeled clients a smooth travel experience.

A team of eight people is assigned to every member of the luxury service and they get them to their plane on the tarmac via a private car and use a special TSA screening away from the crowds.

Jazzy! Other perks include a suite to wait in pre-flight which is outside of the airport proper with food, beverages, in suite spa services, and a concierge doctor

All is calm: By the time they took off, the baby seemed to be happy and content sitting in first class on her dad's lap

Other perks include a suite to wait in pre-flight which is outside of the airport proper with food, beverages, in suite spa services, and a concierge doctor.

By the time they boarded, the couple appeared to be able to assuage the babe and they shared another video from their first class seats.

Kaavia sat calmly on her dad's lap while enjoying an in-flight bottle.

Dwyane recently got candid about raising his 12-year-old child Zion after the pre-teen received hate online for wearing a crop top and long nails in a family photo on Thanksgiving.

Father knows best: Dwyane recently got candid about raising his 12-year-old child Zion after the pre-teen received hate online for wearing a crop top and long nails in a family photo on Thanksgiving

Dwyane, who used the pronoun 'she,' said of Zion: 'I watched my son from day one becoming to who she now eventually is coming to.'

The 37-year-old ex-NBA star was a guest on a recent episode of the podcast All The Smoke hosted by Matt Barnes and Stephen Jackson.

Dwyane, who used the pronoun 'she,' said of Zion: 'I watched my son from day one becoming to who she now eventually is coming to.'

On the podcast Dwyane shared that when it comes to 'strength and courage, my 12-year-old has way more than I have.'

On the podcast Dwyane shared that when it comes to 'strength and courage, my 12-year-old has way more than I have.'

'You know what I mean? You can learn something from your kids, you know. But in our household, man, that’s all we talk about. We talk about making sure our kids be seen by each of us.'

He went on: 'Me and my wife, man, we talk about making sure our kids, you know, understand that they’re, you know, the power in their voice, you know? You know, we want them to be whoever they feel that they can be in this world.'

Dwyane clarified: 'Now there’s some things that’s gonna, you know, while you’re trying to go down that process, this is what’s gonna come at you. There’s gonna be a lot of negativity. There’s gonna be a lot of hate. And it’s not even just for my son’s sexuality. It’s just about being a young black man, or a young black woman, right?'

'Me and my wife, man, we talk about making sure our kids, you know, understand that they’re, you know, the power in their voice, you know? You know, we want them to be whoever they feel that they can be in this world.'

He explained that 'when I respond to things socially, I’m not responding because you hurt my feelings. I’m not responding because I even care enough of what you’re saying, because it’s – as we say in the hood, it’s ignant.'

Said Dwyane: 'Why I’m responding is because I understand my platform. I understand that I’m speaking for a lot of people that don’t have the same voice that I have, right, as a father. Or, you know, I’m even speaking for my 12-year-old right now because I haven’t to sit in front of a microphone yet.'

The retired athlete added: 'But I’m speaking for, you know, for so many others, you know, in the LGBTQ+ community.'

Big happy family: The Union-Wades are parents to their toddler Kaavia and Wade's children from previous relationships Zaire Blessing, 17 and Zion Malachi, 12, Xavier Zechariah, 6 and also raises his nephew

A dream: Gabrielle shared this photo showing herself watching the flawless sunset while on the beach in Hawaii