Former 'Mob Wives' star Drita D'Avanzo and her husband, a reputed associate of the Colombo crime family associate, appeared in court this afternoon to face drug and weapons charges after they were arrested during a raid on their home.

Photos taken at Staten Island Criminal Court show Drita, 43, and her 50-year-old spouse, Lee, being arraigned on counts of criminal possession of a controlled substance, criminal possession of a weapon, criminal possession of marijuana, criminal possession of a firearm and criminal possession of drug paraphernalia, reported Staten Island Advance.

A judge set bail for Lee D'Avanzo at $100,000 and for his wife at $15,000. Both are due back in court on January 31.

Following the hearing, Drita walked out without her husband and got into a car with a younger man in a grey tracksuit acting as her escort.

Scroll down for video

Former 'Mob Wives' star Drita D'Avanzo, 43, and her husband, Lee D'Avanzo, are pictured being arraigned in Staten Island Criminal Court on Friday

The pair were charged with criminal possession of a controlled substance, criminal possession of a weapon, criminal possession of marijuana, criminal possession of a firearm and criminal possession of drug paraphernalia

Drita is seen above with her hands restrained behind her back during her arraignment

Drita later walked out of the courthouse without her husband, accompanied by a younger male chaperone

Drita shielded her face from news cameras using a baseball hat and a hood

The statuesque TV personality walked hunched over to keep her face hidden

The former reality star and mother-of-two was dressed in a black puffer jacket and black tights, and shielded her face from news cameras under a black baseball cap and a hood.

The D'Avanzos were taken into custody after police acting on a tip executed a search warrant at their $1million residence in the 200 block of Woodvale Avenue at 6pm on Thursday.

TMZ reported that the raid yielded two loaded Smith & Wesson firearms, prescription painkillers and Xanax pills, a large quantity of marijuana and a scale.

Police acting on a tip raided the D'Avanzo family home's in Staten Island and reportedly seized two loaded guns, prescription painkillers and Xanax pills, marijuana and a scale

Drita and her husband also were charged with acting in a manner injurious to a child because one of their daughters was present (girls pictured together with mom in September)

D'Avanzo (second left) appeared on all six seasons of the reality show Mob Wives on VH1

The couple, who are parents to two daughters, ages 13 and 19, also were charged with acting in a manner injurious to a child because one of their girls was at home during the drug bust.

Both Drita and her husband have been in trouble with the law before.

The mom-of-two, who made her name on VH1's reality show Mob Wives, was arrested in February 2016 for punching a woman.

She was charged with misdemeanor assault, but prosecutors later dismissed the case.

Lee D'Avanzo was convicted in 2001 for a string of bank robberies and drug deals, and in 2006 was released from federal prison.

Drita (pictured left in 2018) was arrested for assault in 2016, but charges were later dropped against her. She has two daughters, ages 13 and 19 (pictured together right)

He was back behind bars a few years later after police arrested him while he and a group of men attempted to break into a bank vault.

Drita, an Albanian native who grew up in Staten Island, appeared on all six seasons of Mob Wives, a popular reality show that followed the lives of a group of women whose husbands were allegedly involved in organized crime.

Since the program wrapped up in 2016, Drita has been busy feuding on social media with former Teen Mom star Farrah Abraham.