She's been on a hectic media trail promoting her upcoming album.

And Dua Lipa enjoyed a break from her hectic schedule as she packed on the PDA with beau Anwar Hadid on a stroll in New York City on Friday.

The New Rules hitmaker, 24, looked uber stylish in a quilted pink jacket as she held hands with her model love, 20 as they walked along after her appearance on Good Morning America.

Casual: Dua Lipa enjoyed a break from her hectic schedule as she packed on the PDA with beau Anwar Hadid on a stroll in New York City on Friday

Dua held onto her beau's arm as they toured Anwar's sister Gigi's apartment for half an hour before heading home.

The One Kiss songstress donned black jeans that were rolled up at the ankles and a pair of heeled leather boots for the outing.

Her blonde tresses were pulled up into a neat bun, showing off her half blonde, half brunette style, and her fringe was left down to frame her pretty features.

The beauty carried her belongings in a black handbag and accessorised with a selection of gold rings.

Stunning: The New Rules hitmaker, 24, looked uber stylish in a quilted pink jacket as she held hands with her model love, 20 as they walked along

Meanwhile Anwar kept warm in a black padded jacket over cropped navy trousers with various patches.

He added Adidas socks, which he pulled up past his ankles, and brown shoes.

Earlier in the day Dua stopped to pose with fans who wanted selfies as she left the Good Morning America studios.

The Grammy winner blew kisses and lent down to make it easier for her supporters to capture photographs with the star.

Loved-up: Dua held onto her beau's arm as they toured Anwar's sister Gigi's apartment for half an hour before heading home

Style: She donned black jeans that were rolled up at the ankles and a pair of heeled leather boots for the outing

Smitten: Dua laughed as she walked hand-in-hand with Anwar in Soho, New York, during a break in her busy schedule

During a performance on The Tonight Show starring Jimmy Fallon, Dua sang Don't Start Now - from her upcoming second studio album, Future Nostalgia, which is slated to drop in early 2020.

She also has a European leg of a tour already lined up to support the release. It will begin April 26, 2020 in Madrid.

On Wednesday she sat down for an interview with Fallon on The Tonight Show.

Her metallic mini dress came complete with a plunging neckline that flashed her matching bra and slip.

Cold: Meanwhile Anwar kept warm in a black padded jacket over cropped navy trousers with various patches

Fashion: He added Adidas socks, which he pulled up past his ankles, and brown shoes to stay comfortable

Concern? At one point Anwar appeared to look at Dua in concern as if making sure she was alright during their walk

Busy: During a performance on The Tonight Show starring Jimmy Fallon, Dua sang Don't Start Now - from her upcoming second studio album, Future Nostalgia, which is slated to drop in early 2020

She completed her outfit with bronze stiletto open-toed collar heels, a number of necklaces and rings and her blonde hair worn down, like Thursday's performance.

During their chat, Dua reminisced with Fallon, 45, over her first appearance in 2016 on the NBC talk show that also was her first US television performance.

She remembered hugging him afterward 'so hard' that he teased her by saying, 'You basically jumped on me'.

Thrilled: Dua looked in high spirits as she carried her Essentia water bottle into her appartment. She wore a miniature master lock on one ear and a safety pin on the other

The singer also disclosed that the Grammy Award she won earlier this year for Best New Artist has made her work harder.

'I definitely didn't expect anything like that with my first record,' admitted Dua, who also won a Grammy in February for Best Dance Recording for her song Electricity with the duo Silk City.

The pair also talked about her Sunny Hill Festival in Kosovo where she lived from age 11 to 15.

Supporters: She also stopped to pose with fans who wanted selfies as she left the Good Morning America studios

Working woman: Dua took a phone call on a busy New York street as she made her way home from her appearance

Friendly: She blew kisses and lent down to make it easier for her supporters to capture photographs with the star

Turns out she went to her first show at age 13 in Kosovo and saw New York City hip hop group Wu-Tang Clan perform.

She explained that hip hop was popular in Kosovo and that the second show she went to was rapper 50 Cent.

'I'm a massive 50 Cent fan,' Dua said.

Video call? Dua laughed and waved at one fan's phone as she spent time talking to those who approached her

Signatures: Fans held out Dua Lipa merchandise for their favourite singer to sign after they waited for herr

She launched the Sunny Hill Festival in 2018 to bring more artists to Kosovo, which included Miley Cyrus, 27, who performed during the second festival in Pristina last August.

Dua said the Wrecking Ball star was the 'first international female to perform in Kosovo' and that her participation in the festival was her 'biggest dream come true'.

'She also killed. She just smashed it,' gushed Dua.

Dua first gained prominence as a model, before releasing her first song, New Love, in 2015.

Her eponymous self-titled debut album, released in 2017, contained seven singles, three of which made it into the top 10 in the UK.