Demi Lovato and Austin Wilson have split up.

Just over one month after the 27-year-old singer took to Instagram to make her relationship with model Austin official, Demi has revealed that their short-lived romance is over.

Demi confirmed the split to a fan on social media and both she and Austin have deleted all pictures of each other from their accounts.

Demi said: 'Please don't go after him. He's a good guy. Much better than what people see on the outside just because he's got a lot of tattoos.

Over: Demi confirmed her split from beau Austin Wilson to a fan on social media and both she and Austin have deleted all pictures of each other from their accounts

'Breakups are hard for both parties involved. Just stay nice and say prayers,' she continued.

The news comes not long after the former lovebirds were seen embracing in images taken by photographer Angelo Kritikos that look very intimate.

The singer is in a lacy black bra while her boyfriend is shirt free revealing his numerous tattoos. 'My girlfriend is hot AF,' Wilson captioned the shot for his 153K Instagram followers.

She has on a lace bra with her raven hair down and her makeup beautifully with black eyeliner and dark shadow. She also has on a diamond choker and earrings.

The Confident crooner is holding a red rose.

Kritikos also shared a shot of the former Disney star with her love on his own social media account.

This comes just after Lovato added 'survivor' to that self-description, getting the word tattooed in cursive on her neck.

Celebrity tattoo artist Doctor Woo shared a photo of Lovato's new ink on his Instagram Monday and in the caption, he wrote: 'On a real one.'

Lovato, 27, who started out as a child actress on the Disney Channel, was 18 when she first sought rehab treatment after struggling with depression, self-harm and an eating disorder.

Dating again: Demi Lovato is getting very close with her new beau Austin G Wilson

In early 2011, she went public with details of her addictions and her bipolar diagnosis.

However, on June 21, 2018, the singer shared, with the release of Sober, that she had relapsed after six years of sobriety.

A month later, she was rushed to hospital in LA with a prescription drug overdose.

Feeling strong: Celebrity tattoo artist Doctor Woo shared a photo of Lovato's new ink on his Instagram Monday. The singer, 27, got the word 'survivor' written in cursive on her neck

Struggles: In an appearance at the Teen Vogue Summit in LA in November, Lovato, 27, spoke about having 'been through a lot' following her July 2018 prescription drug overdose

'I've been through a lot and I genuinely see a fighter,' she said during an appearance last month at the Teen Vogue Summit in LA.

'I don't see a championship winner, but I see a fighter and someone who is going to continue to fight no matter what is thrown in their way.'

Lovato added: 'I think it's been a very introspective year for me. I've learned a lot, been through a lot.'

The Confident hitmaker is preparing to release new music soon.

She also has a new boyfriend.

She went Instagram official with Austin G. Wilson, 25, in November, who appears to share her love of tattoos and also recently got some new art courtesy of Doctor Woo.