Joe Swash has admitted that he 'resented' Stacey Solomon in the first few weeks after welcoming their baby son Rex after she struggled following his birth.

The presenter, 37, spoke honestly about the difficult time on the Loose Women star's, 30, recent candid podcast Here We Go Again, with Stacey adding that she didn't realise 'how alone Joe felt'.

Joe, who said he 'suffered in silence', added that in any other situation he would have considered taking 'some time apart' or even a 'little separation' but Rex made their situation acceptable.

Candid: Joe Swash has admitted that he 'resented' Stacey Solomon in the first few weeks after welcoming their baby son Rex after she struggled following his birth

The former EastEnders star revealed that he tried to assist Stacey by cleaning, cooking and taking care of her two sons from previous relationships - Zachary, 11, and Leighton, seven, after she prevented him from helping with Rex duties.

Things got so bad at one stage, that Stacey even banned Joe from going near Rex after he sprayed too much deodorant, with the actor adding that he 'couldn't do anything right' and Stacey admitting all she would do is 'moan'.

Joe confessed: 'I did resent you. But it's weird, because in any other situation, I would have probably of gone "we just need to take some time apart, we need to have a little separation" that's how bad it was.'

However, Joe added that they stuck together because of their baby son Rex, he continued: 'I think because it's a baby, it makes everything acceptable. There's a real reason behind it.

'Alone': The presenter, 37, spoke honestly about the difficult time on the Loose Women star's, 30, recent candid podcast Here We Go Again, with Stacey adding that she didn't realise 'how alone Joe felt'

'If it was just a normal, everyday, this is how we are feeling. Fine, I would have to think about where we were in a relationship. Because we had our baby, our family, it all becomes acceptable.'

Joe added that he dealt with the difficult time by driving to his mother's house, using the 45 minute car journey to 'charge his batteries' and have 'me time'.

Yet despite the difficult time, the duo made it through and admitted that they are now 'really strong' as a couple, although Joe joked that 70% of the time she 'loves him' and the other 30% she 'hates him'.

After listening to Joe's woes, Stacey sweetly said: 'If I had a baby and my partner didn't want me anywhere near that baby, I would have really of struggled. You were amazing Joe!'

After birth: Stacey gave birth to Rex 'earlier than expected' in May when he was 37 weeks, she has kept her 2.5M Instagram followers updated with her candid parenting journey (pictured after giving birth)

Family: Joe, who said he 'suffered in silence', added that in any other situation he would have considered taking 'some time apart' or even a 'little separation' but Rex made their situation acceptable

To which he replied: 'Thank you. You went through all the hardwork, honestly, all I had to do was bite my tongue a little bit and realise it wasn't the real you screaming and shouting. Honestly, Stacey, I have to take my hat off to you.

'The whole pregnancy, the whole birth, you handled it like a legend. It didn't go to plan, you still jumped straight back onto it. You have been amazing since. Our kid is amazing, he's the happiest, smiliest baby, honestly, I have ever met in my life!'

He added: 'Listen, I've seen the worst you've got to give me, and if I can swallow the worst that you can give me, then we are really good.'

They ended the podcast by sharing what they have learnt, with Joe saying they are 'really similar' and need humour in their relationship, while Stacey joked she has learnt to 'let it go' and think 'he means well'.

Stacey also took to Instagram to thank Joe and talk about the podcast where she shared several sweet snaps.

Tough times: Things got so bad at one stage, that Stacey even banned Joe from going near Rex after he sprayed too much deodorant, with the actor adding that he 'couldn't do anything right' and Stacey admitting all she would do is 'moan'

Thankful: Stacey also took to Instagram to thank Joe and talk about the podcast where she shared several sweet snaps

Coping: Joe added that he dealt with the difficult time by driving to his mother's house, using the 45 minute car journey to 'charge his batteries' and have 'me time'

Stronger than ever: Yet despite the difficult time, the duo made it through and admitted that they are now 'really strong' as a couple

The Loose Women star said: 'I never realised how alone he felt. How he wasn’t sure if he was getting the chance to bond and how he didn’t know how to make me happy which left him feeling a bit helpless.

'But carried on being a f**king power house daddy, even when I wouldn't let you near me or Rex, touch him or pick him up, you picked me and the boys up with your constant love.

'We love you, daddy, friend, role model, soul mate. To the moon and stars and back again.'

Stacey gave birth to Rex 'earlier than expected' in May when he was 37 weeks, she has kept her 2.5M Instagram followers updated with her candid parenting journey and has admitted in the past that she has struggled to get back to normality.

Here We Go Again with Stacey Solomon continues each week.