Tommy Fury showed off his chiselled light-heavyweight physique for the Sportsmail cameras ahead of his return to the ring on Saturday night.

The 20-year-old faces unknown Polish fighter Przemyslaw Binienda at the Copper Box in Hackney Wick in what will be his third professional fight.

Fury is fighting for the first time since he appeared on the ITV reality show Love Island, which saw his profile rocket in the space of two months.

Tommy Fury mimicked the poses of brother Tyson for the Sportsmail cameras on Friday

The Gypsy King posed for a series of shots ahead of his fight with Otto Wallin in September

Fury will face Pole Przemyslaw Binienda in this third professional bout on Saturday night

Fury, who goes by the moniker 'TNT', struck a series of poses mimicking his older brother, Tyson, ahead of Saturday's bout.

'The Gypsy King' posed for Sportsmail in September prior to his fight with Otto Wallin in Las Vegas and his younger brother displayed the same ease in front of the cameras.

Fury will hope to continue his fine start to the pro ranks, having won his first bout on points before knocking out Callum Ide at the Leicester Arena in March.

Fury has won his first two professional fights and knocked out Callum Ide back in March

'TNT' weighed in at 12 stones and 11 lbs ahead of his light-heavyweight fight at the Copper Box

Fury has built a huge following since his appearance on the ITV reality show Love Island

He will also be hopeful of attracting a sell-out crowd in London, having built a huge social media following during his stint on Love Island.

Fury now has 2.9 million Instagram followers - more than the 2.4m boasted by brother Tyson and a significantly greater number than Daniel Dubois' 128,000, who is the main event.

However, the youngster admitted this week that he's keen to move on from his reality TV stint and show that he's dedicated to his career as a pro boxer.

Fury also recently split with trainer Ricky Hatton and will instead by guided by his father, John, in the months ahead.