She's focused on family despite a new controversy.

And Kim Kardashian rocked a dark beige ensemble for a stoic photo with husband Kanye West shared to Instagram on Friday.

The 39-year-old reality star stood front and center in futuristic garb after facing backlash from a magazine campaign where it appeared she was wearing shades of makeup to make her skin darker.

His and hers: Kim Kardashian rocked a dark beige ensemble for a stoic photo with husband Kanye West shared to Instagram on Friday

Kim kept things simple and wore her dark brown hair tied back with wispy tendrils framing her face.

She hid her eyes from the bright sunshine with a pair of rectangular sunglasses and wore a host of bangles to match her unique dress.

Kanye stood behind his wife wearing an oatmeal-toned sweatsuit with matching boots laced up to his ankles.

Unique: The 39-year-old reality star stood front and center in futuristic garb after facing backlash from a magazine campaign where it appeared she was wearing shades of makeup to make her skin darker

His and hers: The happy couple are in sync when it comes to their closets as they're regularly spotted in coordinated outfits; seen on Instagram

The happy couple are in sync when it comes to their closets as they're regularly spotted in coordinated outfits.

Kim shared her latest cover with 7Hollywood's Winter 2020 issue where she channeled old Hollywood vibes.

Wearing a Thierry Mugler dress with makeup by her trusty sidekick, Mario Dedivanovic, Kim sizzled in the photographs shot by Alix Malka.

Hello there: Kim shared her latest cover with 7Hollywood's Winter 2020 issue where she channeled old Hollywood vibes

But fans were quick to point out that Kim's complexion seemed a little off and accused the Keeping Up With The Kardashians star of blackface.

A source close to the reality TV star told Page Six that the way in which the shoot was lit led to the misconception that she was made up to look like her skin is darker.

'It's the lighting that makes her look darker in this specific image,' the source told the outlet, adding that the image the publication's editors chose to use for the front cover. 'People are so quick to find the negative in everything and also often forget that she is of Armenian descent.'