Miguel Angel Sanchez, 34 (pictured), of Anthony, New Mexico, is accused of hitting his four sons - ages six, nine, 11 and 12 - with wooden paddles, a belt buckle, and choked one of them on one occasions

A New Mexico father-of-four is suspected of abusing his children and forcing them to watch as he killed their puppies.

Miguel Angel Sanchez, from Anthony, is accused of beating all four of his sons, ages six, nine, 11 and 12, according to court documents viewed by KFOX.

The 34-year-old allegedly hit the boys with wooden paddles and a belt with a large metal buckle, and is accused of choking them on at least one occasion.

He also reportedly threatened violence if his sons told anyone of the abuse.

According to the Doña Ana County Sheriff's Office, authorities learned of the abuse earlier this month.

Sanchez allegedly hit his nine-year-old son as he was praying over his brothers.

The hit was so hard that the boy fell to the ground, and then Sanchez proceeded to kick him in the stomach, reported KFOX.

Court documents allege that the boy was in pain the next day and he told day care workers what happened.

Staff subsequently called police as well as the boy's mother.

Documents say that Sanchez and the mother of the four children are not together and that Sanchez has scheduled visitation with them.

Authorities say Sanchez is accused of choking one of the boys and locking them in an outdoor doghouse for hours in cold temperatures.

He also allegedly made the boys watch as he killed their puppies either by throwing them into oncoming traffic or by shooting them in the desert.

The boys were reportedly forced to watch as Sanchez (pictured) killed their puppies, and were then forced to bury the bodies

Sanchez was charged with abuse of a child, four counts of bribery of a witness and one count of aggravated stalking for violating an order of protection and booked at the Doña Ana County Detention Center (pictured)

One of the boys reportedly told police that his father forced him to bury the puppies after they were dead, according to KFOX.

Four restraining orders were filed against Sanchez and he was ordered not to have any contact with his sons or their mother.

However, he violated that order by sending this text message to his son: 'My boys, please keep your heads up. This is just another stepping stone. Love you my boys listen to mommy. Daddy will have you soon, the world can try all they want to separate us but NO ONE MESSES WITH MY BOYS. Promise I will have you soon and with more time!!!'

Sanchez was arrested on Monday and charged with abuse of a child, four counts of bribery of a witness and one count of aggravated stalking for violating an order of protection.

He was booked at the Doña Ana County Detention Center and released on Tuesday day on a $2,500 unsecured bond, reported KFOX.