Did you witness the incident or have any information about what happened? Email tips@dailymail.com

Police have confirmed the incident was 'not knife crime' despite earlier reports

Man was arrested soon after police arrived and arrested on suspicion of murder

A suspected attacker yelled 'I'm going to kill you' before two women were beaten to death in a residential street, with another man left fighting for his life in hospital.

A fleet of ambulances, a helicopter and police cars rushed to Hazel Way in Crawley Down, West Sussex following reports of a fight just before 10.18am yesterday.

Paramedics found the two dead women inside a house and a man seriously injured outside. The man, 37, was arrested on suspicion of murder and is now in a 'very unstable condition' at Royal Sussex County Hospital in Brighton.

Detectives revealed today that one of the murder victims was known to her killer, leading to speculation that the other was a Good Samaritan who had bravely intervened to try to help the other victim.

Police today on Hazel Way in Crawley Down, West Sussex, where a horrific double murder happened yesterday

Paramedics found the two dead women inside a house and a man seriously injured outside

Initial reports suggested that a knife had been involved in the murders, but Sussex Police have told MailOnline that they strongly refuted this claim.

Detective Chief Inspector Alex Geldart, of the Sussex and Surrey major crime team, said: 'In response to media speculation I wish to make it absolutely clear that this is not a knife crime.'

The attacker is understood to have beaten the two women before leaving them for dead in the street.

A man was detained by police shortly after they arrived at the incident in the leafy Sussex village.

Police immediately set up a cordon around the house in Hazel Way, Crawley Down, West Sussex and drafted in forensic experts to begin a search for evidence.

White sheets covered both bodies which lay in the road where they fell and police threw up cordons either side of the horrific scene.

Did you witness the incident or have any information about what happened? Email tips@dailymail.com

The force gave no further details about the arrested man, the cause of death or how the violence unfolded.

A neighbour who saw the police and ambulances arrive said: 'It seems he has killed two people and severely stabbed a third person. I don't know whether they are related to him but it is just terrible.

'To think that on a Sunday morning you wake up to a normal day and suddenly all this happens. It is even more desperate because it is so close to Christmas,' he said.

Another neighbour on Hazel Way, who asked not to be named, said: 'This is a terrible scene - and so near Christmas. Those poor people, they must have been terrified in the moments before they died.

'This is normally such a quiet place, nothing nasty ever happens here. We are just a nice ordinary estate with now trouble.

'Everyone is really struggling to come to terms with what has happened. The paramedics were here really quickly and were brilliant but sadly there was nothing they could do for two of the stab victims.'

The seriously injured man has been taken to Royal Sussex County Hospital in Brighton was later arrested on suspicion of murder. Pictured are flowers at the scene

Forensics officers from Sussex Police were seen examining the property in Crawley last night

An ex-police officer neighbour said his friend, who lives opposite the house where the attack occurred, heard shouting inside before people ran out.

He said: 'There was a domestic dispute or argument that was going on. There was shouting and threats made and the police were called.

'There were three people involved - there was a bloke and his wife and a do-gooder passer-by.

'The neighbour that I know heard shouting and swearing and heard 'I'm going to kill you.'

One witness told MailOnline that he watched police officers ferrying young children out of an address by the crime scene, holding up blankets between the children and the bodies on the road - which were themselves draped with sheets - to shield the view from the children.

A police statement said: 'Detectives are investigating the murder of two women, aged 32 and 76, outside a house in Crawley Down on Sunday morning (December 22).

'A 37-year-old man, who was found seriously injured inside the house in Hazel Way, is under arrest on suspicion of murder. He is in a very unstable condition at the Royal Sussex County Hospital, Brighton.'

White sheets covered both bodies which lay in the road where they fell and police threw up cordons either side of the horrific scene

Detective Chief Inspector Alex Geldart, of Surrey and Sussex major crime team, is leading the investigation.

She said: 'This is a tragic incident which has led to the death of two local women, one of whom was known to the suspect.

'Members of the public, police and paramedics did all they could to help the victims but sadly the two women died at the scene.

'I extend my heartfelt sympathies to their families, who are being supported by specialist trained officers. I ask that people respect their privacy at this distressing time.

'Extensive enquiries are taking place along with a forensic examination, and any speculation by the media as to what has happened is unhelpful. This was not a knife attack. A cordon will remain in the area while we gather evidence and we appreciate the support and understanding of local residents.'

Did you witness the incident or have any information about what happened? Email tips@dailymail.com