His tattooed chest and arms drew the ire of the Amstrad business mogul who branded them 'horrific' in a scathing tweet.

But this hasn't deterred Lewis Ellis from going under the tattoo needle once more with the show reject getting an inking of Lord Sugar's face on his arm.

The marketing manager, 29, proudly showed off his ominous black and white inking of Lord Sugar bizarrely holding a gun to represent his firing of Lewis in the penultimate week.

You're inked: The Apprentice star Lewis Ellis has got an inking of Lord Sugar's face on his leg, after the mogul branded the contestant's tattoos 'horrific'

Brooding: The marketing manager, 29, proudly showed off his ominous black and white inking of Lord Sugar bizarrely holding a gun to represent his firing of Lewis in the penultimate week

Speaking exclusively to Mailonline, a defiant Lewis said he wanted the tattoo to tell the story of his rollercoaster journey on the show.

He said: 'I thought adding Lord Sugar would be a great reminder of my time on the show. I've always said my tattoos tell my story and now this part of my life is there forever.

'I went to my artist in Bolton and I am really happy with how it looks.

'Lord Sugar had a bit of a dig at when he said 'my tattoos tell a story - what am I a Kindle?'

'So I wanted the tattoo to tell the story of what happened to me on the show which ultimately of course ended up with me being fired which is why he's holding the gun.

Spitting image: Speaking exclusively to Mailonline, a defiant Lewis said he wanted the tattoo to tell the story of his rollercoaster journey on the show

'He also said that my kids wouldn't want to look at my tattoos when I had children. Maybe now they'll be one he will be happy for them to look at !'

This comes after Lewis' shirtless appearance on The Apprentice ignited the ire of Lord Sugar.

Lewis stripped down to swimming shorts for a campaign to promote summertime in Finland.

Lewis' tattooed chest and arms prompted Lord Sugar to tweet about how 'horrific' he believed the marketing manager looked, causing a barrage of hate from trolls online.

And an insider has revealed to MailOnline that Lewis was encouraged to shirtless when he wasn't particularly keen to do so.

Not impressed? Lewis' tattooed chest and arms prompted Lord Sugar to tweet about how 'horrific' he believed the marketing manager looked, causing a barrage of hate from trolls online

Lord Sugar's tweet: 'Lewis tattoos are horrific. Tell me where I am missing the point. What does he look like @bbcapprentice [sic]'

The source said: 'One of the female candidates wasn't happy to get into a bikini for the scenes so Lewis felt forced to do it. Which isn't fair. If she wasn't body confident it doesn't automatically mean everyone else is.

'Lewis had hidden his tattoos up until that point but this task meant he had to show them. And because of Lord Sugar's old-fashioned views, he has commented on Twitter and opened the floor to all the trolls to attack Lewis. It's not right!'

Lewis has tattoos on his chest and one of his arms, usually hidden for business purposes under a suit and tie.

But there was no hiding them for the Finland task, leading to Lord Sugar's tweet, which read: 'Lewis tattoos are horrific. Tell me where I am missing the point. What does he look like @bbcapprentice [sic]'

Hitting back: Lewis was sure to respond

The source went on: 'A lot of people have defended Lewis on Twitter, after that remark, but he's also received lots of nasty DMs about how disgusting tattoos are. He's someone who can laugh that stuff off, but it's not fair for Lord Sugar to provoke trolls like that

'Lewis can take stuff like that on the chin. But students who watch the show, they might have tattoos, so it's not good. Social media can be bad enough as it is.

'It also comes down to issues of judgement in the workplace and creating a stigma about what businessmen should and shouldn't look like. It also suggests smart, successful people shouldn't have tattoos.'

The source also touched upon the issue of gender, continuing: 'If a woman had been forced to undress like that, and then those remarks were made, there would be outrage and uproar. It's not okay to open someone up to being personally attacked.

'How can Lord Sugar justify commenting on looks, appearance, body type. Is that really acceptable?'

Aside from private messages Lewis received on social media, some of the Twitter responses to Lord Sugar's tweet included remarks such as, 'I don’t like tattoos and parading them was not good The Apprentice seems to have lost it's way,' and, 'Right again Alan - secure confident people don’t have tattoos, especially awful bad taste ones!'

Sun's out, guns out: Lewis was encouraged to shirtless when he wasn't particularly keen to do so, a source has revealed

Unfair: Other comments suggested Lewis should be 'ashamed of himself' and that 'tattoos are disgusting'

Other comments suggested Lewis should be 'ashamed of himself' and that 'tattoos are disgusting'.

But others jumped to Lewis' defense. One tweeted, 'Nothing wrong with tattoos mate. They don’t make us lesser people,' as another posted, 'Body shaming! Tut tut!'

Lewis took to Instagram to hit back at Lord Sugar's remarks, posting a snap of him in the sauna, taken while filming the show.

'This week my tattoos were called “horrific” by LAS on twitter and he then asked for everyone to give their opinion on my body. I have to admit it wasn’t great to hear as they tell my story, they’re a part of me.

'The only saving grace was seeing the sheer volume of people jumping to my defense and pointing out nobody had the right to judge your body or your decisions.

Easily disguised: Lewis has tattoos on his chest and one of his arms, usually hidden for business purposes under a suit and tie

Back to rule #1 f**k what people think about you! Thank you everyone that took the time to show some support!'

Lewis has said of his inkings that they are 'an expression of himself' and 'are a personal reminder, when I take a shower and g to the gym, to just keep going'.

The tattoos on his chest - of a man walking between two paths, a ferris wheel on one side, cogs on the other - represent 'never conforming, not being the same as everyone else, and never being part of a machine'.

His arm inkings represent 'hope and faith' and that 'things don't always happen straight away, but you’ll get there eventually'.

Lewis has admitted that 'they're cheesy, but I love them'.

MailOnline approached a rep for Lord Sugar for comment