Sarah Mohamed, 17 (pictured), has been jailed for 16 years for intentionally encouraging a person to commit murder

A college student who urged her besotted boyfriend to murder his ex-girlfriend during a macabre plot 'to prove himself' was jailed today for 16 years.

Sarah Mohamed, 17, loitered outside the victim's home in Openshaw, Manchester for two hours while she waited for her boyfriend, Rhett Carty-Shaw, also 17, to kill the mother of his child.

She sent more than 50 text messages to encourage him to carry out the brutal attack in May earlier this year including one that read: 'Why you taking so long? Hurry up and do it.'

Today, the pair were both jailed for 16 years.

Mohamed had first plotted the murder after she discovered that her boyfriend was continuing his relationship with the victim, 17-year-old Imam Nasir.

Manchester Crown Court heard during the trial that she had been left on 'incensed' and 'felt humiliated'.

She proceeded to end her relationship with him and said that he had 'let her down' and that she 'cannot trust him'.

But Carty-Shaw was upset about the relationship coming to an end and arranged to meet with Mohamed at lunchtime the day before the attack in an attempt to talk her round.

Mohamed sent more than 50 texts encouraging her boyfriend, Rhett Carty-Shaw, to carry out the brutal attack in May earlier this year which left the victim, Imam Nasir (pictured), hospitalied

Miss Nasir was left with wounds to her face, neck and armpit plus three to her back

Ex-girlfriend: Imam Nasir (left). Sarah Mohamed, 17 has been jailed for 16 years for intentionally encouraging a person to commit murder (right)

Just hours after the meeting, Carty-Shaw made Google searches on asphyxiation and 'how long do people get sentenced for murder'.

The court heard that the boy turned up at the victim's home the following day with a change of clothes along with a large kitchen knife in his bag.

Ms Nasir described how Carty-Shaw had told her that he had to kill her as well as asking whether she would kill herself for him, whether he could kill her and how he should kill her.

He told her that he was being pressured to kill her and that people would harm his family if he did not go through with it.

Miss Nasir recalled how at one stage he had asked her to give the appearance of strangulation so that he could take a photograph and send it as fake evidence of her death.

Doctors said that Miss Nasir was lucky to be alive after the brutal knife attack

Rhett Carty-Shaw (left) was convicted of the more serious charge of attempted murder (Pictured right: Sarah Mohamed)

She applied make-up to her neck to fake strangulation and closed her eyes so that he could take a photo but when she opened her eyes she saw him holding a knife.

Miss Nasir tried to call 999 as well as one of her friend's but he prevented her from doing so.

She instructed him to leave and tried to push him down the stairs and out of the house into the garden which is when Carty-Shaw unleashed extreme violence.

He inflicting numerous blows that left her with wounds to her face, neck and armpit plus three to her back and was lucky to escape with her life.

Carty-Shaw left the scene shortly after and made his way to his Mohamed who was waiting outside.

The pair talked and embraced after returning to Mohamed's home before he left and she returned inside the property.

Carty-Shaw was arrested a short time later while standing at a bus stop close to his co-defendant's address.

It became apparent that he had changed his clothes and trainers and was in possession of two plastic bags which contained an open packet of Dettol wipes, some of which had already been used.

Miss Nasir (left) had started dating Carty-Shaw (right) in 2013 but their romance began to fizzle out in 2018

The pair dated for three years before she later realised she was pregnant with his child

It is thought that they had been purchased in order to clean the large kitchen knife, a green sports bag and his blood stained clothing and trainers.

His accomplice, Mohamed, was arrested soon after and her phone was seized.

Phone analysis showed that she was constantly pressuring the boy, repeatedly texting him instructing him to video what he was doing and send the footage to her video so that she knew that it had been done.

She wrote: 'Vid it then delete it when I see it please... Did you get rid of the phone?'

Police also found a message telling Carty-Shaw not to do anything stupid and leave his DNA behind or he would be going to prison.

In one exchange Carty-Shaw wrote 'I did it to prove I love you - there was no other way to keep you' before receiving her reply: 'I know there wasn't -I'm gonna protect you at all costs.'

Miss Nasir, who is said to have been lucky not to have been killed in the attack, was taken to hospital where she was treated for serious injuries.

Pictured: Text messages sent between Sarah Mohamed and Rhett Carty-Shaw

Detective Inspector Jennifer Tattersall, of GMP's City of Manchester Division, said: 'The defendants devised a devious plan to murder the victim, with the boy seeing fit to arm himself with a knife and inflict life-threatening wounds to the victim.

'Thankfully, the wounds sustained in this brutal attack weren't fatal.

'The girl was taken to hospital in a serious condition, and has been deeply affected by the attack.

'I want to commend the bravery and courage that she has shown in coming forward and assisting the police during the investigation.

'Both defendants deserve the sentences that they have received and they now have time to contemplate their senseless actions behind bars.'

Mohamed has now been jailed for intentionally encouraging or assisting a person to commit murder.

She denied wrongdoing claiming she thought Carty-Shaw was simply going to end his relationship with the victim and she wanted him to record the break up on his phone as proof.

Carty-Shaw was originally charged with rape but was found not guilty.

But he admitted causing GBH but was convicted of the more serious charge of attempted murder.

Both were today sentenced to 16 years behind bars.

A judge ordered they be named due to the 'strong public interest' in the case.

During the hearing Miss Nasir, who waived her right to anonymity due to the rape charge, read out a statement.

She said: 'This incident has dramatically changed my life and the outlook of living.

Miss Nasir (pictured) survived the attack and said that 2020 would be her 'year to shine'

'I can't do things I want to do anymore because I'm too scared.

'I'm scared that someone is going to come after me and finish off the job that Rhett and Sarah both started and tried to do to me.

'I stopped going to college because we moved away and because my mental health isn't great anymore.

'I am too scared to go out on my own, I always have to have someone with me, I am even too scared in the house on my own.

'I don't trust anyone as if Rhett the person I loved can do that to me then anyone can.

'Sometimes I wake up sweating and screaming in my sleep, I find it hard to breathe because I'm so traumatised, I suffer with headaches that jut wont go away.

Iman Nassir's statement after the hearing 'I got the result I wanted to get, her going down and getting jail is the outcome I wanted. 'It's hard to move on with his child. 'Maybe, maybe not he will say he wants to see his child. '2020, it's my year to shine, I can now be happy and forget this ever happened. 'It put my mind at ease to know they are in prison. I can now go on holiday and do things I want to do. 'He told me previously that she had hurt somebody and someone's mother described her as a demon type of girl. 'She's being all gothic and liking death stuff. On her social media she posted pictures of knives and blood she was quite into that kind of stuff. 'She was watching me on social media. She had it in her, I thought he didn't have it in him. 'His demeanour just changed. He went from being this nice bloke to being this Jekyll and Hyde. 'I feel like if they had got away with not showing their face, she would have done it again. 'People will know this girl and now to be careful. 'I stay at home now looking after my child. 'During the course of the trial the police they helped me. 'They really helped me and inspired me and I want to go into the police. 'She didn't think about the fact that my son was only two months old at the time and I just had 35 week c-section, nobody thought about me. 'I starting dating Rhett in high school in 2016, we went to Manchester Academy. 'We were together for three years. 'Sarah and Rhett met at prom, wed broken up by then. I knew of her. 'He changed everything, even the way he dressed. 'Nobody has come to me to apologise. 'I would say she is manipulative and delusional and she doesn't want to come to terms with this reality. He did cheat on you. 'She didn't want to accept that I was there before. She was like living her own fairytale. 'She's still in her own head. I feel like in a way she was threatened. She was trying for a baby with him and it didn't happen, but I get pregnant. 'It was that competition of who can get with him first. 'I feel like she made him happier with buying him gifts and having sex where I was with the baby and had other things to worry about.'

'Night time is a particularly hard time for me as I am alone with my thoughts and they overpower me.

'I'm taking baby steps to get my life together, this is something I never thought would happen to me.'

Miss Nasir had started dating Carty-Shaw in 2013 but their romance began to fizzle out in 2018 before she realised she was pregnant with his child.

He began dating his new girlfriend but continued seeing his Miss Nasir behind the his latest partner's back.

In her evidence Miss Nasir said: 'I got a phone call and he said he was on his way to mine.

'I was asleep in the house and my sister's girls were making the food.

'He came round to mine and when I met him at the door he had a green plastic bag with him and he had black gloves.

'In that bag he had a Adidas black hoodie and matching trousers.

'He said he was taking it to charity and I wanted to have a look and we started arguing. I went into my room and I sat on the bed and he sat on the gaming chair and he pulled me close.

'And he started touching me up, he touched my thighs and my boobs. He was kissing me and kissing my neck. He was kissing my nose and he forced himself on me.

'I got upset saying: "You just came to have sex with me."

'Then we were having a conversation about me dying, he said he was going to do it.

'He told me he was going to have a conversation about killing me.

'He was looking at the mirror. If you cared about someone, you wouldn't say this about someone. I said I felt really weird.

'It hurt the fact that he had the nerve to say something like that to me. It was the shock, I was thinking about that and I was crying.

'He was saying "do I look like a killer" and "do you want me to kill you" and multiple times he said "you will die".

'I was scared, I was upset and I knew something was going to happen and he was like Jekyll and Hyde.

'I started calling for my sister and I was shouting "let me out" and he said "be quiet" and said he didn't mean it.

Then the conversation just stopped and he started getting lots of texts and that's when the vibe changed and everything went dark. The mood changed and it went from upset to hurt to violent.

'His eyes stared to bulge out and he said: "I'm saying stupid things, I'm not going to hurt you".

'But then was saying "I was pissing him off" and then said "it's not a joke".

'I said "if you don't show me the texts I will call her."

'He tried to cover it up but one said "why you taking so long, hurry up and do it" - it was from her.

'I said "I'm dead aren't I, I'm going to die" and I was getting ready for my death, I was getting ready for him to kill me.

'I tried to figure out what to do not to die whilst he kept repeatedly saying "I have got to kill you".

During sentencing, Judge Alan Conrad QC told Mohamed: 'The victim was a girl you never met and had done you no harm whatsoever.

'How the two of you could would want to cause intentional murder does defy belief.

'There is reference to your two warped personalities. Both of you show selfish and narcissistic behaviour and thinks the world revolves around you.'

In mitigation for Mohamed, Peter Wright QC said: 'This is an intelligent, articulate and personable young woman.

'She did have achievable goals and that is the tragedy in this case.

'It's matter of considerable dismay and sorrow that this young woman with a potentially bright future from her academic career is now facing a considerable jail sentence and stigma.

'She has dashed all hopes of a glittering career or future.'