She's a Real Housewives Of Cheshire star who always ensures she looks fantastic whenever she steps out.

And Ester Dee put on a sizzling display as she flaunted her curves in a tiny purple bikini while on holiday in Tenerife on Friday.

The poolside shoot comes after the mother-of-one, 34, revealed that she's planning to donate her eggs next year as she 'wants to help other people'.

Stunning: Real Housewives of Cheshire star Ester Dee, 34, put on a sizzling display in a tiny purple bikini while on holiday in Tenerife on Friday

Ester exuded confidence as she lounged around the pool in a bright purple bikini which also had a leopard print stripe through it.

Her halter-neck top skimmed the star's cleavage, showing off her assets, and she tied it in a bow at the back.

The reality show personality made sure to flaunt her pins as well, donning matching purple bottoms which sat on her hips and showed off her peachy derrière.

Ester let her long caramel tresses cascade over her shoulders and styled them into perfect loose curls.

Work it: Ester exuded confidence in a halter-neck top which skimmed the star's cleavage and made sure to work all her angles as she relaxed beside the pool

Toned: Ester styled her caramel tresses into perfect loose curls and let her long locks cascade over her shoulders

The TV star, who is mother to Pearl, four, also added a full face of makeup, including a touch of pink lipstick to accentuate her pretty features.

As she relaxed by the pool, she carried her matching towel and set herself up on a lounger for some more time in the sun.

It comes after Ester revealed she's planning on donating her eggs in 2020 during an interview with new! magazine, saying she 'wants to help other people'.

Getaway: She added a full face of makeup as she flaunted her toned physique, including false eyelashes and pink lipstick

The Czech bombshell, who joined the reality show in 2017 when she was engaged to Rob Lloyd, also spoke about her daughter, Pearl.

She revealed that the youngster lives in north Wales with her father, Rob, and that she has 50/50 custody.

Mentioning her finances, Ester said she's being careful with her spending and trying to save money as she has a daughter who will 'want a Ferrari' when she's 18.

Ester also discussed her love life, revealing she's not dating anyone and isn't on any apps, but did admit there's been 'lots of flirting'.

Looking good: Ester's bikini boasted a splash of leopard print, with the bottoms sitting high on her hips and drawing attention to her peachy derrière

Relaxed: The mother-of-one's stunning poolside shoot comes after she revealed she's hoping to donate her eggs next year

Smile: Ester caused quite the stir when she joined the Real Housewives Of Cheshire cast, with it later being discovered that she was already married despite being engaged to Rob Lloyd

She said: 'I'm open to meeting someone, but I'm not desperate.'

The beauty also chatted about her Real Housewives co-star Dawn Ward's friendship with Gemma Collins, saying she is 'eccentric'.

Ester made a lively entrance into the show and it was later revealed that despite being engaged to Rob, she was already married to millionaire John Temple who she wed in 2015.

She had Pearl with the businessman, but John also believed he was the little girl's father, with the truth coming out in 2017, the same year she joined RHWC.