A video of a cat appearing to supervise its owner' son when he is doing his homework has gone viral in China.

The 19-second clip shows the grey moggy sitting on a table next to the boy who seems to be having trouble finishing his maths assignment.

The strict pet is seen giving the pupil a few death stares as soon as he stops writing.

Do you know the answer or not? A pet cat has shot to fame after being captured monitoring its young owner as the schoolboy tries to finish his maths assignment at their home in Beijing

As of writing, the footage has been liked 1.6 million times and received 64,000 comments after it was uploaded to short-video app Douyin on Monday.

It was shared by a user called 'Lemon', who is believed to be the boy's mother and lives in Beijing.

At the beginning of the video, the British Shorthair sits on the table while looking at the student trying to solve a geometric problem.

Then he moves onto a few equations, and appears to struggle with the answers.

The cat then lowers its body to sit in a loaf pose, patiently waiting for its young master to complete his homework.

The trending footage was shared by a user called ' Lemon ', who is believed to be the boy's mother. She joked that the cat was worrying sick about the boy's academic performance

Tens of thousands of people have left messages under the video to express their amazement.

One person praised: 'This free supervisor is very good. How cute! And the child will not resent it.'

Another viewer wrote: 'This cat's look is like saying "do you really know the answers?"'

A third person suggested: 'It feels anxious by looking [at him] and wants to do [the homework] for him instead.'

'Lemon' joked by saying that the cat was worrying sick about the boy's academic performance when she relied to comments from fans.

She also claimed that her child liked being accompanied by the animal while working on his assignments.

Earlier this year, a father in south-western China became famous after training his pet dog to administer his daughter as she wrote her homework.

Adorable footage shows the cream-coloured pooch standing on its hind legs, hovering strictly over the schoolgirl as she completes her assignments on a coffee table at her home in Guiyang, Guizhou province.