After yet another sporting week full of twists and turns, Sportsmail's Riath Al-Samarrai takes a close look at which stars have left themselves hot, and who has left themselves firmly out in the cold...

HOT

Ben Foster

Have a look, if you haven’t already, at what Foster did to help an elderly Watford season ticket-holder.

Finding the 80-year-old dementia-sufferer in a ditch, in distress, the former England goalkeeper rescued him, cleaned him up and got him safely home. Foster has invited the fan round for Christmas dinner, too. Simply lovely.

Ben Foster deserves much praise for going to great lengths to help an elderly Watford fan

Tiger Woods

This guy was once so insular he could appear suspicious of his own shadow. How incongruous and warming, therefore, to see him become the embodiment of a team man in leading the United States to victory at the Presidents Cup.

He played Royal Melbourne like the Woods of old, even if all other evidence suggested it was a body double having such fun in the company of others.

Fallon Sherrock

It's always seemed odd that darts, like snooker, has seen very little mixing of the sexes in competition.

After Sherrock rocked up at Alexandra Palace to beat Ted Evetts at the World Championship and made a wonderful statement, it seems stranger still.

Fallon Sherrock made a major impact and could pave the way for more female darts stars

NOT

Serie A

Deary me. Monkeys. Three big monkeys. An anti-racism campaign launched alongside artwork depicting three whopping great monkeys. The artist explained that it’s because we’re all monkeys. He was making a point of sorts, but maybe the monkey painter was the wrong choice for this gig.

Serie A's anti-racism poster, which contained images of monkeys, wasn't well thought through

Wladimir Klitschko

A decade of world-title fights would suggest Klitschko spent enough time as the centre of attention.

So why start tweeting about fights with Deontay Wilder, Anthony Joshua and Tyson Fury? Four years retired, aged 43 and evidently still in possession of his wealth, it all feels a little sad and familiar.

Manchester City

The glorious temerity of City seething at Arsenal over the pursuit of Mikel Arteta.

This, of course, being the same club that gleefully looted from the Gunners Kolo Toure, Gael Clichy, Bacary Sagna, Emmanuel Adebayor, Samir Nasri and spent a fair amount of time batting eyelids at Alexis Sanchez. He who is without sin, or words to that effect.