The first trailer for Keira Knightley's new film Misbehaviour was released on Friday.

In the drama, the actress, 34, stars as a feminist Sally Alexander trying to disrupt the 1970 Miss World pageant in London alongside members of the Women's Liberation Movement.

Opening with an advert for the competition in question, Keira and her family watch as the man narrating the promotion says: 'Last year a hundred million people tuned into Miss World, more people than the moon landing or the World Cup final.'

Misbehaviour FIRST LOOK: Keira Knightley went against the system as she transformed into a feminist going against beauty pageants, in a trailer released on Friday

Keira's Sally looks perturbed as her daughter imitates the women on screen, and she asks her mother not to encourage her little one to copy them.

Her mother hits back: 'Darling you and your sister used to love playing Miss World,' before Sally adds that they also liked 'to eat our own snot.'

Describing the requirements to take part in the beauty pageant, Rhys Ifans' Eric Morley explained that women 'must have no defects, and if they're pretty much not 36, 24, 36, the curves wont be in the right places.'

Popular: Keira and her family watch as an advert says of pageants: 'Last year a hundred million people tuned into miss world, more people than the moon landing or the World Cup final'

Fight the power: In the drama, the actress stars as a feminist Sally Alexander trying to disrupt the 1970 Miss World pageant alongside members of the Women's Liberation Movement

Trying to negate Eric's sexist comment, Julia Morley quickly said what 'we really believe beauty isn't just skin deep. the girls also get marks on charm, grace,' before her co-worker pipes in and adds 'swimsuits'.

Teasing the drama for Gugu Mbatha-Raw's Jennifer Hosten, the first Miss Grenada, the trailer sees her try and navigate her place in the pageant world as one of the few black women to compete.

'If I win there would be little girls who might start to believe they have a place in the world,' she says of her hopes for the future.

Lead: Teasing the drama for Gugu Mbatha-Raw's Jennifer Hosten, the first Miss Grenada, the trailer sees her try and navigate her place in the pageant world

Just cause: 'If I win there would be little girls who might start to believe they have a place in the world,' she says of her hopes for the future

Going on to feature real-life comedian Bob Hope (Greg Kinnear), his wife explains in disappointment that 'he brought the winning girl home with him' the last time he took part in the competition.

This sentiment rings true when he takes to the stage later on to quip: 'I don't want you to think I'm a brute who doesn't consider the feelings of women, i consider feeling women all the time.'

Meanwhile the Women's Liberation Movement begin to come up with a plan to disrupt the pageant, as Jessie Buckley's Jo Robinson tells the group: 'They're turning oppression into spectacle, lets make it into a spectacle of our own.'

Sexist: Going on to feature real-life comedian Bob Hope (Greg Kinnear), his wife explains in disappointment that 'he brought the last winning girl home with him'

Drama: Meanwhile the Women's Liberation Movement begin to come up with a plan to disrupt the pageant, as Jessie Buckley's Jo Robinson tells the group: 'make a spectacle of our own'

But their plan seems to get in Jennifer's way, as she confronts Sally who tells her that the women competing are not the ones they're angry at.

In response, the beauty pageant hopeful says: 'I'm looking forward to having your choices in life.'

Facing racism in the industry, Jennifer laments the lack of attention she gets because of her skin colour as she tells a fellow contestant that there were 'not so many flashbulbs for me' when people came to take their pictures.

Struggles: But their plan seems to get in Jennifer's way, as she confronts Sally who tells her that the women competing are not the ones they're angry at

Fighting a different battle: Facing racism in the industry, Jennifer laments the lack of attention she gets because of her skin colour and is determined to make that change

While the feminist movement's fight continues to go to new heights, as Sally takes part in a radio show and debates the ethics of the pageant.

She tells the men on the panel: 'This competition makes us compete with each other, and makes the world narrower in the end.

'Why should any woman earn her place in the world by looking a certain way. you don't, he doesn't, why should we?'

Misbehaviour will be released in the UK on March 13, 2020.