Ellie Kemper stages a mini-reunion of The Office with Jenna Fischer and Angela Kinsey in her guest hosting stint on Monday's edition of Ellen.

The 39-year-old actress, who is filling in for Ellen for the third time, has on as guests two of her co-stars from the NBC comedy - Jenna Fischer and Angela Kinsey.

Kemper played Erin Hannon on the series from 2009-2013; Fischer, 45, played Pam Beesly, and Kinsey, 48, played Angela Martin, both from 2005-2013.

The latest: Ellie Kemper, 39, stages a mini-reunion of The Office with Angela Kinsey, 48, (L) Jenna Fischer, 45, (R) and in her guest hosting stint on Monday's edition of Ellen

The trio discussed the show's enduring popularity, as well as how younger people are catching on to The Office.

'It's over, but it's getting a new popularity among younger people,' said the Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt star, who shares three-year-old son James and two-month-old son Matthew with husband Michael Koman.

Fischer said she's 'had young fans come up to [her] in stores and say, "You look like an older version of that girl Pam from the office."'

In the appearance, Fischer and Kinsey also discussed Office Ladies, their in-depth podcast on Earwolf about the fan favorite NBC series.

Familiar faces: Fischer, 45, played Pam Beesly, and Kinsey, 48, played Angela Martin, both from 2005-2013

Closer look: The trio discussed the show's enduring popularity, as well as how younger people are catching on to The Office

Worth a listen: In the appearance, Fischer and Kinsey also discuss Office Ladies, their in-depth podcast on Earwolf about the fan favorite NBC series

In speaking of a potential reboot of the show, all of the ladies agreed they would be interested in reuniting for some sort of project. (NBCU exec Bonnie Hammer told Deadline in September that a reboot of The Office was a priority.)

'I would not do an Office reboot but I would love to do a reunion special: I would like to get us all together again,' Fischer said.

Kinsey added, 'I would do anything they would call me to do - so if you want to call me, I'm around.'

Kemper said, 'I'm with you, Angela - if you call me, I'm around ... I will be there - Angela and I are rebooting The Office!'

Big fan: Kinsey noted how she came across Billie Eilish in an airport and said the music star is a fan of the show

New fans: Fischer said she's 'had young fans come up to [her] in stores and say, "You look like an older version of that girl Pam from the office"'