Steelers rookie Kameron Kelly was punched in the face by police several times and arrested after he allegedly refused to leave a local bar in the early hours of Friday morning

Pittsburgh Steelers safety Kameron Kelly was punched in the face by police several times and arrested after he allegedly refused to leave a local bar in the early hours of Friday morning.

The 23-year-old is now facing two misdemeanor counts of making terroristic threats and one count of resisting arrest, according to court records obtained by KDKA, Pittsburgh's CBS affiliate.

The Steelers have since announced that they have released Kelly following his arrest.

Police claimed in the criminal complaint that they were called to Mario's South Side Saloon, where Kelly was allegedly upset because the jukebox did not play the song he requested. He then allegedly threatened an employee, saying he would 'knock [him] out,' before refusing to leave.

Kelly attempted to go back into the bar as police explained he was not permitted to do so, according to the complaint.

At one point a woman identified by Kelly as 'his girl' had her foot stepped on, police said, which is when the rookie defensive back became aggressive, allegedly threatening an officer.

Police claimed in the criminal complaint that they were called to Mario's South Side Saloon, where Kelly was allegedly upset because the jukebox did not play the song he requested

Police say Kelly resisted arrested, which is when one officer punched him in the face several times to 'gain control' of the situation. Kelly suffered a cut on his lip, according to the complaint.

Kelly was treated at a local hospital, but police say he continued to be disorderly. He was ultimately taken to Allegheny County Jail.

The former San Diego State player has appeared in 14 games for Pittsburgh this season, recording one interception and 21 tackles. He is currently on a one-year, $500,000 contract.

The Steelers visit the New York Jets on Sunday, but Kelly has already been released and will not travel with the team.