Pleaded guilty to driving over legal alcohol limit, while uninsured and without a licence and for failing to stop

When police caught her she had to be restrained going into custody

Sophie Ross, 23, was over the legal alcohol limit when she hopped behind the wheel of a Fiat Punto car earlier this month

A drunk woman who led police on a car chase while live streaming her actions on Snapchat has been banned from the roads.

Sophie Ross, 23, was over the legal alcohol limit when she hopped behind the wheel of a Fiat Punto car earlier this month.

Under the influence of alcohol, and wearing her dressing gown, Ross, of Benfleet Avenue in Sunderland, Tyne and Wear knew she was in trouble when she saw police lights and heard sirens fast approaching.

But, instead of getting out of the car, the unlicensed and uninsured driver led officers on a chase around the streets of Town End, Sunderland, and recorded the incident on Snapchat.

When officers finally caught up with her on December 15, she became verbally abusive, at one point shouting 'It's mam's fault', and had to be restrained before being taken in to custody.

When breathalysed, she was found to have 73 micrograms of alcohol in 100 millilitres of breath - the legal limit is 35.

Ross appeared at South Tyneside Magistrates' Court this week where she pleaded guilty to driving while over the legal alcohol limit, driving while uninsured and without a licence and failing to stop.

She was disqualified from the roads for 22 months and given a community order and must carry out 60 hours of unpaid work in the next 12 months.

Following the case, Constable Steven Hackett, from Northumbria Police's Motor Patrols Department, said: 'Just this week we pledged our support to a road safety campaign launched by the National Police Chief's Council - and it's incidents like this which show us why it is so important we continue to do this.

Under the influence of alcohol, and wearing her dressing gown, Ross, of Benfleet Avenue in Sunderland, Tyne and Wear knew she was in trouble when she saw police lights and heard sirens fast approaching

When officers finally caught up with her on December 15, she became verbally abusive, at one point shouting 'It's mam's fault', and had to be restrained before being taken in to custody

'This incident happened near a busy street where people were shopping and going for takeaway food close to Christmas so the outcome could have been very different for members of the public and for Ross.

'We know all too well driving while under the influence of alcohol or drugs can have grave consequences and can cause serious injury and can even kill.

'I hope this case serves as a warning to anyone thinking of getting behind the wheel this Christmas, or any other time of year - after a heavy night out, or a few too many - it's simply not worth it.

'The best you can expect is to lose your licence and be hauled in front of the courts.'