Shocking surveillance video has captured the moment a woman was dragged 75 yards through a St. Paul parking lot while a thief was trying to make off with her handbag in a speeding car.

The 52-year-old-woman, who has not been publicly named, was left with bumps and bruises in the wake of the horrific attack, which occurred in broad daylight in Johnson Parkway on Sunday.

The footage begins with the unsuspecting lady placing bags of shopping into the trunk of her car, oblivious to the fact that a blue Hyundai Elanta has pulled up behind her.

A man then slowly emerges from the passenger side of that vehicle, before suddenly ambushing her from behind and throwing her violently against the side of his car.

The woman falls to ground as the man tries to wrestle for her handbag at the same time as he quickly climbs back into his sedan.

The 52-year-old-woman, who has not been publicly named, was left with bumps and bruises in the wake of the horrific attack, which occurred in broad daylight in Johnson Parkway on Sunday.

The thief's accomplice - sitting in the driver's seat of the Hyundai - begins to drive off as the woman is dragged along the ground while still holding onto her purse.

She continues to be pulled along the icy road as the Hyundai begins to accelerate and speed away from the scene.

The feisty woman eventually let go of her handbag as she lay helplessly in the snow.

She was taken to hospital for a check-up but is expected to make a full recovery.

Police fear the thief and his accomplice are serial offenders. Since November 20, there have been more than 20 reports of purse snatchings in St. Paul-Minneapolis, all of which have been conducted in a similar style.

The thieves zero in on lone women over the age of 40 who are out shopping, before stealing their purses and driving off in a getaway car.

Two similar robberies occurred on Wednesday night in St. Paul, according to Twin Cities Pioneer Press.

During the incidents, two men snuck up on their victims from behind, snatched their handbags and driving off in a stolen car.

The publication reports that the suspects have sometimes threatened the women with guns if they refused to give over their purses.

Police told the press they are concerned that the attacks could turn more violent.

'We really need to find these people before someone is more seriously injured and we need the public's help,' they stated.