A pensioner who claimed almost £90,000 while pretending to be disabled was exposed as a benefits cheat after he was filmed carrying a 55lb bag of bird seed.

Graham Branfield, 76, was jailed after he was caught on camera delivering catalogues and shopping in a Bristol supermarket.

Branfield's shifty operation was only brought to an end after officials followed him on one of his 'runs' and recorded evidence of his con.

A court on Thursday heard he claimed £62,000 in Disability Living Allowance (DLA) and £25,000 in pension credit over a ten-year period - despite leading an active lifestyle.

Branfield, who denied the charge, defended himself at Bristol Crown Court.

Graham Branfield's shifty operation was only brought to an end after officials followed him on one of his 'runs' and recorded evidence of his con (pictured in video footage)

But a jury found him guilty and he was jailed for two years, to run consecutively with a four-year term he is serving for breaching a Sexual Harm Prevention Order.

Retired shopkeeper Brian Sheehan, who runs Fur and Feathers in Knowle, Bristol, gave evidence during the trial.

He said Branfield regularly purchased heavy bags of wild bird seed and pigeon corn from him - up to two or three times-a-week.

Mr Sheehan said Branfield would park his car near the premises before carrying 55lb bags to it without difficulty.

Former neighbour Helen Gillespie also gave evidence, and described Branfield as a regular dog walker.

She added that Branfield would shop at Morrisons in Hartcliffe and carry items - without difficulty.

The swindler was caught after Department of Works and Pensions (DWP) him as he went on one of his regular shopping runs and captured evidence on camera.

Branfield said he was suffering from a plethora of debilitating ailments for which he was medicated but he was still able to move around in pain.

He also admitted a small amount of catalogue work, for which he said he drove.

Sentencing, Judge James Patrick said: 'This was a simply breath-taking piece of dishonesty.

'You are an intelligent man and a man with some charm. But you are a manipulative man.

'Your application may have been honest from the beginning but you saw it as a blank cheque. You received very large sums of money indeed.'

Branfield was jailed after he was caught on camera delivering catalogues and shopping in a Bristol supermarket

The jury heard interviews Branfield gave in early 2016 during an investigation into alleged benefit fraud.

He said he had claimed DLA as he was suffering very badly and took pain medication.

Branfield said he suffered from a joint and muscle problem, renal problems and incontinence.

He said medication gave him the chance to be mobile but he was still in a lot of pain when moving and it had not got any better during the past 10 years.

He said he could not walk even small distances without pain.

He added a doctor had advised him Betterware catalogue work and feeding birds were giving him something to live for.

Branfield, of Knowle, Bristol, agreed he would leave home every day at 6am or 7am to feed pigeons and foxes unless he felt too unwell to go.

He maintained walking around did not stop him from suffering severe discomfort and he spent a lot of time indoors, lying on his bed, as he had difficulty coping.

A DWP spokesman said: 'Benefit fraud is a crime that diverts money from those who really need it. In addition to any sentence imposed by the court, people must pay back all the money they falsely obtained.

'We have zero tolerance of anyone fraudulently claiming benefits and will take swift action to investigate, supporting our partners and prosecutors to bring them to justice.'