A businessman has paid £2,300 for a Perspex screen which was erected to protect a new Banksy reindeer mural from vandals.

The plastic sheet features two reindeer pulling a bench as a sleigh in a bid to highlight Britain's homelessness, in Birmingham.

Within hours of the work being unveiled in the Jewellery Quarter on December 9, the piece was defaced by a vandal who sprayed two red noses on the reindeer.

A Perspex sheet which protected a Banksy artwork of reindeer has been sold to business Steve Tolley for £2,300 in Birmingham. All proceeds will go to Midland Langar Seva Society (MLSS), an organisation set up to help homeless people in need in the UK

Network Rail then put up the Perspex cover to protect the mural from any further acts of vandalism.

Birmingham-based Fellows Auctioneers put the single sheet of Perspex up for sale once a more permanent cover was installed.

A screen was erected by Network Rail after the artwork was vandalised with two additional noses sprayed on to the deer. It has exceeded estimates of £100 at auction and was sold alongside the bolts used to place it on Banksy's artwork

The screening advertisement which was expected to raise between £100 to £150 at most. Simon Evans, from Network Rail, said: 'Life is strange sometimes. Ordinarily a piece of Perspex is no big deal. But a piece of Perspex that has protected a Banksy - that is a big deal'

It smashed its estimate of between £100 and £150 when it went under the hammer and sold for £2,300 to a local business owner, earlier today.

And now the Perspex has been snapped up by Steve Tolley, co-owner of the Bullion Room, a precious metal and jewellery dealer, who beat off ten rival bidders during the online auction.

All proceeds will go to Midland Langar Seva Society (MLSS), an organisation set up to help homeless people in need in the UK.

People gather to watch the sheeting being placed over the artwork in Birmingham's Jewellery Quarter, just days after it was vandalised

Mr Tolley said it is 'the perfect story to celebrate the opening of our new showroom'.

'It would have been a shame to have seen the Perspex sell to someone outside the Quarter and homelessness is a big issue around here, so it is good to give something back to the community.'

The screen, which contains paint marks from being vandalised, will be displayed in the Bullion Room for everyone to see.

It was auctioned alongside the bolts used to place it on Banksy's artwork.

Simon Evans, from Network Rail, said: 'We’re pleased to be able to sell this item, along with the story that goes with it, to raise money to help homeless people.

'Life is strange sometimes. Ordinarily a piece of Perspex is no big deal. But a piece of Perspex that has protected a Banksy - that is a big deal.'

The latest Banksy can be seen protecting by a screen and protected by metal railings, on December 10

Luke Crane, executive director of Jewellery Quarter Business Improvement District (JQBID) added: 'This piece of art by Banksy is an early Christmas gift.'

Money raised from the original Perspex is to be donated to Midland Langar Seva Society.

Stephen Whittaker, Managing Director of Fellows Auctioneers is 'over the moon' as he hoped to make the most of selling the perspex by attracting a lot of interest amongst bidders.

Other contributions from local businesses including the auctioneers have increased the total sum raised to £3,000 for Midland Langar Seva Society.