Kodak Black has donated at least $8,000 toward a number of worthy recipients as Christmas approaches, as he remains in custody in a federal detention center in Miami.

The 22-year-old rapper has divvied the proceeds between charitable organizations, children's centers, places of worship, and to families, his lawyer Bradford Cohen told TMZ Sunday.

The Skrt artist also has made arrangements for more than 70 different families to receive toys from the Broward County, Florida's Paradise Day Care Center, according to Cohen.

The latest: Kodak Black, 22, has donated at least $8,000 toward a number of worthy recipients as Christmas approaches as he remains in custody in a federal detention center in Miami. He was snapped last year in NYC

In addition, the Tunnel Vision performer has earmarked funds to a family that has a child who is blind, as well as braille gifts and games that are voice-controlled, among other useful contributions.

He's also made a $1,000 donation to Fort Lauderdale's Downtown Jewish Center Chabad toward a new temple to be built, Cohen told the outlet.

Insiders close to the If I'm Lyin, I'm Flyin artist said he saw the holiday gifts as a worthwhile investment amid his time in custody.

Kodak, who was born as Dieuson Octave and goes under the legal name Bill Kapri, is spending the holidays in custody this year after he received a three-plus year sentence in federal prison last month over weapons charges he entered a guilty plea to.

Season of giving: Kodak also has made arrangements for more than 70 different families to receive toys from the Broward County, Florida's Paradise Day Care Center. He was snapped performing in California in 2017

Philanthropist: Insiders close to the If I'm Lyin, I'm Flyin artist said he saw the holiday gifts as a worthwhile investment amid his time in custody

Kodak told the court this past August that twice, he lied on federal forms in order to purchase four weapons, including a semi-automatic weapon and multiple handguns.

One of the aforementioned weapons was subsequently discovered at a shooting site this past March. While Kodak hasn't been charged in connection with the shooting, he remains tied to other open cases.

Kodak faced a maximum 10-year sentence in his weapons case, with prosecutors pushing for at least eight, citing allegations he participated in a brawn in which a corrections officer was hurt.

U.S. District Judge Federico Moreno cited Black's past history of philanthropy in giving him a shorter sentence. According to the AP, the judge told the rapper, 'My suggestion would be you continue to be generous.'

Kodak said in court: 'I have made some decisions I'm not proud of making' and 'take full responsibility for my mishap.'

Kodak was initially taken into custody this past May at Miami Gardens' Hard Rock Stadium amid the Rolling Loud music festival.