He blamed the Love Island edit for making him look like a bad boy during his stint in the Mallorcan villa.

But Michael Griffiths proved he has a charitable side as he posed up a storm in a smouldering new 2020 calendar, with all proceeds set to be donated to the fire service.

The former firefighter, 28, stripped off his famous uniform to go shirtless in a series of images sure to get any of his fans hot under the collar.

Love Island EXCLUSIVE: Michael Griffiths has gone shirtless in a racy shoot as he stripped off for a new firefighter-themed 2020 charity calendar

In one image, the reality star held onto the back of a fire truck as he struck a sexy pose.

The hunk displayed his extensive collection of tattoos as he smouldered into the camera lens.

In another, he leaned against a white door while wearing a pair of faded blue jeans, displaying the waistband of his Tommy Hilfiger boxers.

The reality star went through various stages of undress as he put his uniform jacket on while stood in front of a foggy backdrop in another image.

Swoon: The former firefighter, 28, has chosen to giveaway his share of the profits to the firefighters' charity so that they can have more uniforms

Charity: The calendar is on sale at celebritymerchandise.co.uk for £17.99

Michael spoke to MailOnline about why it's so important to him to raise money for charity.

He said: 'I'm giving my side of the profits to the firefighters' charity. It helps them through loss, and funds new kit. There's a shortage of kit and a lot more firefighters are coming out with cancer because of the carcinogenics on the uniform.

'Everyone looks at firefighters as strong individuals, but there are cases where they suffer from depression and they get a mental mark. I do know firefighters that have gone through that and turned to drink.

'Both of my brothers are firefighters and obviously I've now resigned - but my eldest has been one for 21 years and my other has only just started. It means that much to me because they're my family.

Rippling: In another picture he showed off his rippling muscles as he held an axe across his shoulders

'I'll probably move back North. It feels more like home. There's a possibility I'll return to firefighting. I've spoken to my own deputy chief and he was keen to have me back.'

Michael previously told This Morning presenters Ruth Langsford and Eamonn Holmes his hopes for helping the fire service: 'Right now I am grateful I even got the opportunity to do it and I still want to support the fire service.

Michael has also revealed he plans to work on issues relating to mental health as he wants to give something back to society.

The calendar is on sale at celebritymerchandise.co.uk for £17.99