Jessie J has said she's changed into a diva, a total b***h and a nightmare' in a cryptic post following her split from Channing Tatum.

The singer, 31, took to Instagram to share a throwback snap from her 2011 UK tour as she hinted to fans she's 'changed' in the last eight years as she doesn't try to please others.

It comes after Jessie insisted she is 'happy' in a sexy Instagram Stories video after it was reported she had split from actor Channing, 39, following just a year of dating.

Strong: Jessie J has taken to social media to share a cryptic post after breaking her silence following her split from Channing Tatum

In the Instagram post, Jessie shared a screenshot from a poster for her 2011 Stand Up Tour, and wrote in the caption that she doesn't have to push herself to the limit with constant performances.

However the star's words could have been a reference to her recent split.

She wrote: 'This week in 2011 I was finishing my first ever UK tour. MUAD! I remember the Scala gig like it was yesterday. It’s where I recorded ‘Big White Room’ for the Who you are album.

'AND... I was doing 3 shows back to back.'

Jessie then added: 'Don’t do that now. That’s because I’ve changed. I’m a diva. A total b***h. A nightmare.'

Over: The singer's post comes after it was reported she split from actor Channing Tatum last month after just over a year of dating

Throwback: Jessie took to Instagram to share a poster from her 2011 Stand Up Tour, which was her first following her rise to fame

Cryptic: In the caption Jessie hearkened back to her early music success, but described how she's changed into a 'diva, a total b***h and a nightmare'

Jessie's strongly-worded post comes just hours after she took to Instagram Stories on Friday to reassure fans she is happy following reports she and Channing split a month ago.

Showing the actor what he's missing, the Price Tag hitmaker looked incredible wearing a metallic leotard with sexy tights and a white top over the top.

Her hair was styled in a sleek up-do with one strand fashioned into a pattern which sat on her forehead and was decorated with diamantés.

Getting on with it: Jessie's post comes just hours after she took to Instagram Stories on Friday to reassure fans she is happy following reports she and Channing split a month ago

Showing him what he's missing: Jessie put on a very racy display as the camera panned down her body

She looked perfectly content as the camera panned down her body and she wore a big smile on her face.

Jessie simply wrote the word 'happy' in the comments section, hours after UsWeekly broke the news that the couple had parted ways weeks ago.

They reported: 'Channing Tatum and Jessie J broke up about a month ago. They are still really close and still good friends.'

Wow! Her hair was styled in a sleek up-do with an intricate jewelled design at the front

Stunning: She covered up her leotard with a knotted shirt over the top

People added that there was not one main trigger for breaking up: 'There wasn’t any drama. They just decided to part ways.'

Meanwhile, Channing's ex-wife Jenna Dewan is expecting a baby with her beau, theater actor Steve Kazee.

Channing, 39, first started dating the singer, 31, over a year ago.

They seemed to click well: She was called a Jenna Dewan look-alike but it didn't seem to bother them; this is the last time they were photographed together

The People source added: 'Channing and Jessie have different priorities and focuses that don’t really align. They had a fun relationship, but it just didn’t work out. Channing needs to be in LA a lot so he can spend time with Everly. Jessie prefers England.'

Her last Instagram post was from the Netherlands where she was all dolled up: 'Last show of the decade for me last night.

'To say I’m grateful to still do what I love is an understatement. When I think about what I have been through, what I have achieved and how you have all rocked with me in the past 10 years. Woof. Tears.'

And he was last seen in Australia on December 3 for a media call.

A strong bond: They were often seen together out in public and he regularly attended her concerts; seen in March in London after leaving Harvey Nichols

They were often seen together out in public and he regularly attended her concerts.

Last year he gushed about her on social media: 'This woman just poured her heart out on stage at the Royal Albert Hall. Whoever was there got to witness something special. Wow.'

The Magic Mike star shocked fans in May when he shared a photo of himself with no clothing on claiming it was Jessie's fault.

About last night: Her last Instagram post was from the Netherlands where she was all dolled up: 'Last show of the decade for me last night

At work: And Channing was last seen in Australia on December 3 for a media call

He had his hands cover his private parts.

'I lost a game of Jenga to Jessica Cornish,' he said, using the songbird's birth name.

'The loser (me) had to post a picture the other person (Jessica Cornish) picked… Smh and fml… I’m never playing Jenga with her ever again.'

Tatum and Dewan, 39, split in April 2018 after nine years of marriage. They co-parent their daughter Everly, aged six.

His ex: Tatum and Dewan, 39, split in April 2018 after nine years of marriage. They co-parent their daughter Everly, aged six; seen in 2015

She is due with her second child in 2020.

In September the couple told People, 'We are beyond overjoyed and couldn’t be happier to be expanding our family!'

In February he said of his lady love: 'Somehow, inexplicably, I’ve been granted the honor to have this be the person that I get to be side by side with throughout this wild journey we call life. Jenna I don’t know what I did to deserve your love but I will always be so thankful that our lives found their way to each other. Here’s looking at you, kid.'