Jennifer Hudson's Respect for Aretha Franklin is clear in the first look at the late singer's upcoming biopic.

The singer/actress fully transforms into Queen Of Soul in the very first teaser for the film, aptly titled Respect.

Thought short, the clips instantly sets the tone as Jennifer starts singing while shrouded in darkness with the glare of a spotlight behind her.

Big voice: Jennifer Hudson demonstrates her vocal chops as she transforms into Aretha Franklin in the first teaser for Respect

Hudson proves she was made for the role as she belts out Respect while the camera pulls out to reveal the singer in a dazzling gold dress.

Her star power truly shines as Hudson continues to serenade the audience a huge glowing sign appears in the background.

Though Jennifer is clearly the star of the show, the film features a host of talents.

Respect also stars Forest Whitaker as father C. L. Franklin, Marlon Wayans at Aretha's first husband Ted White and Audra McDonald as mom Barbara Franklin.

Mirror image: She looks like the spitting image of the singer, seen above in 1965

Gold records galore: Hudson proves she was made for the role as she belts out Respect while the camera pulls out to reveal the singer in a dazzling gold dress

Sing it: Her star power truly shines as Hudson continues to serenade the audience a huge glowing sign appears in the background

Rounding out the ensemble are Marc Maron, Tituss Burgess, Saycon Sengbloh, Hailey Kilgore, Tate Donovan, Heather Headley, Skye Dakota Turner, and Mary J. Blige.

Jennifer explained how she felt about taking the role of the icon last week, telling Sunday Today's Willie Geist the role gives her 'huge shoes to fill.'

'I am just taking it one step at a time, one day at a time. All I want to do is pay tribute to her and meet her requests, you know? Like, "Aretha said do this?" — ‘Yes, ma’am,"' she went on.

Hand picked: Aretha, who passed away in August 2018 and is pictured in 2015 above, had actually hand picked Hudson for the role

Purr-fect: Respect isn't Hudson's only musical endeavor right now. The highly anticipated Cats just came out for the holiday season

Aretha, who passed away in August 2018, had actually hand picked Hudson for the role.

'We were in talks a long time about me playing her,' she added, 'so I just hope I make her proud [and] do her justice.'

Respect isn't Hudson's only musical endeavor right now. The highly anticipated Cats just came out for the holiday season.

Respect is set for a 2020 release. Cats is currently in theaters.