Need to buy a gift for someone who has expensive tastes? Choosing a luxury gift for a loved one can be a daunting task if they have high standards and a penchant for the finer things in life.

The trick is to look for quality materials like leather, gold and cashmere, and go for tried and tested designer brands. Nobody has ever been disappointed to find a blue Tiffany jewellery box underneath the tree.

From handbags to decadent beauty treats, here are eight ideas that even the most discerning person would be pleased to unwrap on Christmas day.

Elemis Pro Collagen Superstars Gift Set, £113.90

Money can't turn back the clocks, but it can buy the illusion of youthfulness. The Elemis Pro Collagen trio helps to reduce the appearance of lines and wrinkles, improve firmness and boost skin's natural regeneration process.

The gift set contains Pro Collagen marine cream 50ml, Pro Collagen oxygenating night cream 50ml and Pro Collagen marine oil 15ml with a stylish lip-shaped travel case that can also double as a clutch bag.

All the creams and oils use different marine based super ingredients to hydrate the skin and improve elasticity.

Buy now on Amazon

Saint Laurent Monogram Envelope Chain Wallet, £790

A coveted contemporary classic, Saint Laurent's Envelope bag is instantly recognisable thanks to its iconic YSL monogram and matelassé stitching. Your loved one will enjoy carrying it because it's more than just a bag, it's a status symbol.

Perfectly sized for both day and night use, the wallet-style interior keeps cards, phones and other evening essentials safely housed. This is a bag that looks equally good with jeans as a little black dress.

It can be carried as a clutch or slipped over the shoulder with the optional chain strap.

Buy now on Harrods

Veuve Clicquot 750ml with Personalised Tin, £59

There's no finer drink in life than Champagne and Veuve Clicquot is an iconic brand, famous for producing excellent fizz since 1772.

With its rich nectarine fruit character and lingering toasty vanilla notes, Veuve Clicquot Brut Ponsardin champagne bubbles pop on the tongue with an explosion of flavour.

Now you can make the sipping experience even more special with a personalised arrow-shaped tin bearing your pal's name. This can be used once the Champagne is gone to store trinkets and other valuables.

Buy now on Selfridges

Tiffany Infinity Bracelet, £215

The duck egg blue of a Tiffany box alone is enough to guarantee squeals of joy from the recipient when they spot it under the tree. Make sure that excitement continues when they open the box with this classic silver infinity bracelet.

The infinity sign symbolises something being endless and ongoing. The bracelet could be given as a sign of infinite love and continuous connection towards your partner or as a token of ongoing energy and vitality to a friend who is going through hard times.

Silver goes with all outfits so they'll get tons of wear out of it.

Buy now on Tiffany

H En Ligne Muffler, £385

The dapper gentleman in your life will appreciate that a muffler is a small, warm men's scarf. They'll love one that comes in Hermes' signature orange colour, which is instantly recognizable as a sign of ultra-luxury.

For extra brand recognition, this cosy muffler also has H motifs aligned in the knit of the fabric so everyone who sees it up close knows where it's from.

Made from 100 per cent cashmere, it's warm, snuggly and super soft next to the skin.

Buy now on Hermes

Cashmere Lined Leather Gloves, £95

Gloves add a touch of elegance to a look, especially if they're made from leather and cashmere.

Available in a choice of colours including rich brown, classic black and striking red, every pair of Aspinal of London gloves is hand stitched by master craftsmen to ensure the finest quality. Butter soft, supple Nappa leather is lined with 100 per cent cashmere for comfort, warmth and style.

These gloves are practical enough for casual outfits in cold weather but also smart and sophisticated enough to team with formal winter coats for dressy occasions.

Buy now on Aspinal of London

Lay-Z Spa Helsinki Hot Tub for 5-7 People

If their closets and jewellery boxes are bursting at the seams, give the gift of relaxation with one of the best pop-up hot tubs money can buy.

It inflates in less than ten minutes with the included pump and can be stored in small spaces when not in use. However, the recipient may want to recline in it all the time and it can be used in all weathers thanks to its Freeze Shield technology. It can heat water to 40 degree Celsius and has an 87 AirJet massage system to get into all pressure points for ultimate pampering.

Buy now on Amazon

The Fortnum's Afternoon Tea Hamper, £500

Afternoon tea is one of the finest pleasures in life and this hamper will allow your friend to recreate the experience of Fortnum's Diamond Jubilee Tea Salon in their own home.

Housed inside beautiful keepsake wooden caddies, the hamper contains three rare teas along with a tin of Fortnum's iconic Royal Blend.

To ensure accuracy and precision when making and serving the brew, there's a Fortnum's tea timer and art deco strainer with long handle, two Camellia tea cups and saucers and a Camellia teapot. A selection of delicate cakes, biscuits and preserves are included to complement the drinks.

Buy now on Fortnum's

Check out our discount section for Christmas deals and offers.

MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.