Two Carnival cruise ships have crashed into each other at a port in Mexico, damaging at least one of the vessels.

Carnival Glory was maneuvering to dock in Cozumel around 8.30am local time on Friday when it struck the Carnival Legend, which had already moored behind it, leaving its stern visibly impacted.

Carnival Cruise Lines said one person suffered a minor injury on the Carnival Glory when a group of guests was evacuated from the dining room.

One passenger was hurt as the Carnival Glory attempted to dock at the port in Cozumel, Mexico, on Friday but smashed into the Carnival Legend, which was already moored nearby

A spokesman for Carnival said passengers in one of the dining rooms had to be evacuated after the crash, leaving one person with minor injuries

Video and images posted to social media show the Glory swinging into the port and passing close to the prow of the Legend.

Suddenly a loud crash can be heard as shocked onlookers point out that the two boats have hit one-another.

Images also show damage to the rear of the Glory, including windows that were smashed out and a railing that has been bent out of shape.

Additional footage shows the Glory then almost struck another cruise ship called Oasis of the Seas, which was moored in front of the legend.

The stern of the 952-foot-long vessel was crushed in the incident and passengers were left stunned at the loud impact.

A statement given by Carnival Glory said: 'Carnival Glory had a collision with Carnival Legend this morning in Cozumel.

'Carnival Glory was maneuvering to dock when it made contact with Carnival Legend which was already alongside.

'We are assessing the damage but there are no issues that impact the seaworthiness of either ship.

'We have advised guests from both ships to enjoy their day ashore in Cozumel.

The front end of the Legend was shown cutting open the rear end of the Glory, smashing windows and bending a portion of the deck out of shape

Carnival said it was assessing the damage, but that the crash had not affected the seaworthiness of either vessel

'There is one reported minor injury of a Carnival Glory guest that occurred when a group of guests were evacuated from the dining room on Decks 3 and 4.'

Passenger Jordan Moseley said he was eating breakfast on the docked Carnival Legend, a 963-foot-long (294-meter) ship that can hold more than 2,000 passengers, when he felt the crash.

'All of a sudden we felt the ship rock to one side and then back into place,' Moseley said. 'A few minutes later, the cruise director announced that the Carnival Glory had crashed into our ship while docking due to the high winds and rough ocean conditions in Cozumel.'

A video taken from an upper deck of Carnival Glory shows pieces of the ship tumble onto the deck of the oncoming vessel, with some splashing into the churning water.

'Oh my God, look at that ship!' an onlooker can he heard saying in the video posted on social media.

Other images of the battered vessel show a railing along the Carnival Glory stern bent downwards at a roughly 45-degree angle, revealing a twisted and mangled ship interior.

Christopher Macijeski, who was on a third cruise ship nearby, said there was a loud boom from the impact.

'Could see it coming before it happened,' he said.

It is not clear what was responsible for the crash.

The Carnival Glory is a Conquest-class cruise liner that departs from New Orleans and tours the Caribbean and Panama Canal.

The Glory can sleep almost 3,000 guests and another 1,000 crew.

It is not clear where the ship was heading or how many were on board at the time of the crash.

The Carnival Legend is a Spirit-class ship that departs from locations across the US and Europe, including New York and London, cruising to the Bahamas, Bermuda, Caribbean, Europe, Panama Canal and across the Atlantic.

It is the smaller of the two vessels - with a passenger capacity of a little over 2,000 and crew of 900.