A man was left getting more than he had bargained for when a rather sticky face mask left him whimpering in pain as it was peeled off.

The footage, that was filmed in Bude, Cornwall, shows the anonymous man groan and ask for 'a drink' as the black mask is ripped off his face in sections over the course of three minutes.

The man scrunches his face in pain and tells his loved ones 'it's fine' before going on to take a swig of his beer as the gluey mask is pulled from his face.

The recipient of the mask takes a large swig of his beer as the gluey face mask is peeled from his face

During the clip, which was captured on December 14, the wearer of the mask is asked by his loved one if he is ready before going on to reassure her: 'I am indeed.'

After taking a large sip of his beer, the man stands against a wall and lets the woman begin to peel the sticky mask from the side of his face.

As the process of removing the mask begins, the pain becomes evident and the man growls with discomfort before assuring his loved one: 'It's fine.'

The woman continues peeling the thin black layer from his skin but stops once more when the man's wails become louder before asking him: 'Shall we see if we can get it off in one piece?'

The man from Bude, North East Cornwall, tells his loved one he is 'fine' as she begins to move the mask from his face

The man holds his breath as the woman makes another series of pulls and tells him: 'I haven't even done it yet. Stand still. This side will be easier.'

As the pain ensues, the man asks for a drink but is instead told he must wait and 'be brave'.

Following a series of yells, the man tries to will himself through the pain before the woman tells him: 'It's because you've got wrinkles.'

After managing to pull most of the face mask off, the man, who is now left with a large piece dangling from his face decides to take a large swig of his drink in celebration.

One final pull signals to the man that the mask is finally off and he tells the woman: 'Not painful at all.'