Mikel Arteta has fired a chilling warning to his new Arsenal players, telling them: it's my way or the highway.

The 37-year-old was confirmed as the Gunners new manager on a three-and-a-half year deal on Friday and immediately set about laying down the law to his new charges.

'I have to try and convince the players about what I want to do, how I want to do it, they have to start accepting a different process, a different way of thinking,' Arteta said.

Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta told his players that it will be his way or the highway moving forward

'I want to get all the staff and everybody at the club with the same mindset. We have to build a culture that has to sustain the rest.

'If you don't have the right culture, in the difficult moments, the tree is going to shake, so my job is to convince everybody that this is how we are going to live.

'If you are going to be part of this organisation it has to be in these terms and in this way.'

Arteta arrived at the club's London Colney HQ early on Friday morning to meet members of his new staff and the playing squad.

Arteta played for Gunners under former Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger between 2011 and 2016

He addressed the team upon their arrival, informing them of what he expects to see moving forward - starting with Saturday's clash against Everton.

Interim coach Freddie Ljungberg will take charge of the team for the final time at Goodison Park and Arteta confirmed he would hold talks with the Swede before deciding whether he will remain part of the first-team set-up.

Elsewhere, Sportsmail understands former Manchester United coach Steve Round - who worked with Arteta during the Spaniard's playing days at Everton - will be appointed to the revamped coaching team.

Inaki Cana Pavon, who is currently goalkeeper coach at Brentford, is also on Arteta's radar.

Arsenal's head of football Raul Sanllehi insists Arteta's appointment does not represent a risk, even though it is the Spaniard's first job as a manager.

Arteta admitted to a lack of experience, but revealed he had prepared to make the step up

Arteta admits the huge task of trying to return the club to former glories — Arsenal are 10th in the Premier League — will take time but admits he must start winning matches from the outset.

He said. 'We don't have a pre-season. We have to be focused on things that can have a great impact immediately, in the short-term.

'At the same time we have to set standards to live, to communicate, to be respectful to each other, to transmit what we want to do. It's not one thing or the other. We have to try to start feeling both things at the same time if we can.'

Arteta's return to the club where he spent six years as player has been shrouded in controversy, with City furious at what they perceive as Arsenal's poor conduct during the pursuit of their coach.

City sources had accused of Arsenal of failing to contact them about talks with Arteta — though Sportsmail revealed on Friday that the Gunners did have dialogue with their Etihad counterparts.

Sanllehi defended Arsenal's position, saying: 'In terms of Man City and given the tight relationship between Mikel and Pep Guardiola, we have been very careful, extremely transparent and very respectful.'

Gunners chief Raul Sanllehi also defended Arsenal's conduct during their pursuit of Arteta

On his relationship with City boss Guardiola, Arteta said: 'The relationship could not be any better. I said goodbye to everyone yesterday at the training ground. I cried because they have been my family for three and a half years.

'We had a dream to do something in England with Pep that people said, 'You cannot do it in the Premier League… you will be bullied'.

'But we did it in the way we believed we could and that was so fulfilling. We share that for the rest of our lives.'

Meanwhile, Hertha Berlin are ready to offer Granit Xhaka an escape from Arsenal.

The German side, managed by former Tottenham striker Jurgen Klinsmann, have been alerted by Xhaka's uncertain future following his spat with Arsenal supporters in October.

Recap how Arteta's first press conference unfolded below...