An Oklahoma mother-of-three says Christmas Day of 2016 was the worst day of her life, when her ex-boyfriend turned up on her doorstep and shot her twice in front of her children — but now, three years later, she is determined that her kids enjoy the holiday.

Stacy Anderson, 40, had been with Adrian Permetter, 38, for four years — even having child with him — when his abusive behavior culminated in attempted murder while her terrified children watched on.

'That day was the worst day of mine and my children's lives. But we refuse to let that monster ruin our Christmas. Instead we try to have the best day and be thankful that we are all alive,' she said.

Traumatic: Stacy Anderson, 40, was shot twice and left for dead by her ex-boyfriend on Christmas Day 2014

Scary: She had kicked him out, but he returned and tried to kill her in front of her children

Injuries: She suffered broken ribs and a collapsed lung, as well as nerve damage in her hand that persists to this day

Guilty: Her ex Adrian Permetter, 38, was arrested and sentenced to 105 years in prison

Better future: She is now determined that she and her kids enjoy Christmas (pictured left to right: Stacy's niece, son Destin, Stacy, Damian, and Ashton)

Stacy met Adrian in December of 2012 at her waitressing job, where the two would flirt when he came in for breakfast. She recalls that he was 'charming'.

By April of 2014, he was moving in with her and her two children, Destin, now 14, and Ashton, now 16.

They were happy at first, and Adrian treated Destin and Ashton like his own children.

But a month after moving in, he became abusive.

She remembers the first night he lashed out violently, arriving home drunk and waking her up by pulling her hair. He accused her of cheating because she hadn't answered the phone when he called — she was sleeping — and he punched her.

The next morning, though, he apologized, and Stacy forgave him.

Yet the behavior continued. Adrian would hit her whenever she didn't pick up the phone, or if she came home late.

Escalation: Stacy met Adrian in December of 2012. He moved in a year and a half later and quickly turned abusive

'Adrian's abuse only got worse and he beat me every day. I feared for my life. I left a pair of shoes next to every door in the house so if he tried to kill me, I was ready to run,' she said

She said: 'I tried to end it with Adrian over 12 times but he knew how to manipulate me into staying with him'

Out: She finally worked up the courage to kick him out a week before Christmas

'Adrian's abuse only got worse and he beat me every day. I feared for my life. I left a pair of shoes next to every door in the house so if he tried to kill me, I was ready to run.

'I tried to end it with Adrian over 12 times but he knew how to manipulate me into staying with him.'

Less than a year after Adrian moved in, Stacy was pregnant, and in December of 2015 she gave birth to their son Damien.

A year after that, after endless abuse, Stacy finally worked up the courage to kick Adrian out.

Her ex was gone for a week, but surprised her by turning up on Christmas Day. She was unloading her car when he appeared at the end of her driveway holding a knife.

'I told him he needed to leave. At that time, he said, "I'm taking my son,"' she told NewsChannel 4 Oklahoma.

Saved: When he shot her, her kids called 911 and an ambulance soon came

Instincts: She was shot once in the chest and another time in the hand and arm, which she used to protect herself

'The kids were screaming. I thought I was going to die, I told the kids I loved them, then everything went black,' she said

He pressed the knife into her stomach and pulled her into the house, where she managed to break free and run up the stairs. She quickly tossed her phone to her kids, ordering them to call the police.

When she turned around, Adrian was standing at the stairs with a gun.

'He growled, "You won't live to see New Year's Day, b****," and shot me in my chest. Blood gushed out of me and I couldn't breathe,' she recalled.

He shot her again. This time she reacted more quickly, holding her arm up to defend herself. The bullet when through her hand and into her arm.

'The kids were screaming. I thought I was going to die, I told the kids I loved them, then everything went black,' she said.

Soon an ambulance arrived and took her to the hospital, where she underwent a three-hour operation to remove a bullet still inside her, which had nearly hit her heart.

She also suffered broken ribs and a collapsed lung, as well as nerve damage in her hand that persists to this day.

Out of the picture: She has two teenagers from a previous relationship and a toddler with Adrian

'The main thing is that my poor children had to see it all. We are all suffering from PTSD now and they’re terrified when someone knocks at the door or a car backfires,' Stacy said

'There is a sense of relief not looking over my shoulder, not checking my locks,' Stacy said

As she recovered, cops found Adrian and arrested him. and earlier this year, he was found guilty of shooting with intent to kill, possession of a firearm, and child endangerment.

He was sentenced to 105 years in prison.

'The main thing is that my poor children had to see it all. We are all suffering from PTSD now and they’re terrified when someone knocks at the door or a car backfires,' Stacy said.

'I understand being angry, but to hurt your child's mother in his presence then walk past your crying son out the door, while he thought I was dead — that's something I can't wrap my mind around. That's not the guy I knew,' she told NewsChannel4.

Still, in a way, she's happy it happened — since now he's in jail and she no longer has to live in fear.

'There is a sense of relief not looking over my shoulder, not checking my locks. And, it is just the very beginning of a long healing process, emotionally and physically. I am blessed and grateful to be alive,' she said.

'One day, I'll have to tell Damian what his father did. But for now I'm determined to give the kids the best Christmas Day every year,' she conlcuded.