Jeremy Corbyn suffered a fresh humiliation today as half a dozen Labour MPs defied his orders and voted for Boris Johnson's Brexit deal.

Mr Corbyn had whipped his MPs to reject the Prime Minister's Withdrawal Agreement Bill.

But six rebelled in order to vote for it: Sarah Champion, Rosie Cooper, Jon Cruddas, Emma Lewell-Buck, Grahame Morris and Toby Perkins.

Meanwhile, in a further blow to Mr Corbyn's authority 32 Labour MPs opted to abstain on this afternoon's crunch vote which Mr Johnson won by 358 to 234, a majority of 124.

Some of those 32 MPs are believed to have been given permission to miss the vote.

But Labour sources told MailOnline that as many as 25 had not and had actively decided to abstain.

Jeremy Corbyn, pictured today in the Commons, whipped Labour MPs to vote against Boris Johnson's Brexit deal but he suffered a rebellion

Those Labour MPs who failed to record a vote included shadow cabinet ministers Ian Lavery and Jon Trickett.

A total of nine Tory MPs failed to vote but it is thought that they all had permission not to be there.

Ms Lewell-Buck said during today's debate that she did not want to 'just oppose for opposition's sake' as she declared her intention to back the PM's deal.

The South Shields MP said: 'I don't want to just oppose for opposition's sake. We need to build consensus and stop the combative nature of this debate.

'It has served no-one and the last three years have proven that.'

She added: 'It is with the heaviest of hearts that I can't vote with my party today, but I will always put my constituents before everything else.

'Because the day I don't is the day I no longer deserve the honour of being their voice in this place.'

One of the 32 Labour MPs who abstained, Charlotte Nichols, said she had done so because while her Warrington North constituency had voted to Leave the EU, she could not bring herself to vote for Mr Johnson's deal.

She said: 'I did not feel I could follow the whip and vote against the bill having listened to my constituents wishes.

'I do not wish to frustrate the process, so I did not stand in its way.

'I could not, however, in good faith vote for the Withdrawal Agreement as amended since the election.'

If every Labour MP had voted in accordance with Mr Corbyn's wishes, Mr Johnson would still have stormed to victory after he won a crushing 80 seat majority at last week's general election.

But the Labour rebellion represented a damaging moment to Mr Corbyn's leadership as his time at the top of the party comes to a close.

He has committed to standing down as Labour leader in the new year once his successor has been elected after the party sank to just 202 MPs.

He outlined his opposition to Mr Johnson's deal when he addressed the Commons this morning.

Mr Corbyn said the Prime Minister's EU divorce accord was 'terrible' before the election and 'we still believe it is a terrible deal today'.

Toby Perkins, pictured left, and Grahame Morris, pictured right, were two of the six Labour MPs who voted for Boris Johnson's Brexit deal

Rosie Cooper and Jon Cruddas also defied Mr Corbyn to back Mr Johnson's Withdrawal Agreement Bill

Sarah Champion (pictured left) and Emma Lewell-Buck were the final two of the six Labour MPs who rebelled

'It will not protect or strengthen our rights or support our manufacturing industry and vital trading relationships, or protect our natural world in a time of a climate crisis,' he said.

'Neither will it address the deep inequality in our system or secure the interests of every nation and region in the United Kingdom.

'Instead under the Conservatives this deal will be used as a battering ram to drive us down the path of yet more deregulation and towards a toxic deal with Donald Trump that will sell out our NHS and push up the price of medicines to benefit the giant US drugs corporations.'