Kerem Albayrak, 22, demanded tens of thousands of dollars worth of Bitcoin from Apple in exchange for not selling its customers' personal details online

A man who claimed to have the power to illegally access hundreds of millions of iCloud accounts in an attempt to gain 'online fame' was spared jail today.

Kerem Albayrak, 22, demanded tens of thousands of dollars worth of Bitcoin from Apple in exchange for not selling its customers' personal details online.

The man, from Hornsey, north London, asked for 75,000 US dollars (£57,000) in Bitcoin, or a thousand $100 iTunes gift cards from the tech giant to stop him leaking the logins and passwords online.

His claims of the extent of his data breach varied wildly, at times telling friends he had access to '200 million' people's information, and at others, saying he had the computing ability to factory reset '382 million' accounts.

He later upped his ransom to 100,000 US dollars (around £76,000) in Bitcoin, in what prosecution James Dawes QC called 'a cynical attempt to extort money from one of the world's largest companies'.

Albayrak was handed a two-year suspended sentence at Southwark Crown Court, ordered to wear an electronic tag and complete 300 hours of work in the community - having earlier admitted the blackmail and two counts of unauthorised access to computer material in March 2017.

The hearing was shown a YouTube clip of Albayrak illegally infiltrating the Apple accounts of one American woman, and one American man.

On both occasions, he activated the Find My iPhone feature, causing the devices thousands of miles away to make a loud noise.

On the man's gadget, he also edited writing in the Notes section.

Albayrak, who was 19 at the time of his crimes, had bragged about being able to erase millions of accounts per hour, however the defence described his claims as 'unattainable and no more than boasts'.

One message he sent to the firm read: 'Hello Apple I've decided to use all my servers and macroscripts on these accounts.

'If I don't get by payment by 3 December I will be hacking every iCloud account I have extracting all the notes and dumping them online.'

Albayrak created a bogus online profile under the name 'Turkish Crime Family' and posed as a group of hackers in a bid to intimidate Apple into paying the money.

When they refused the analyst attempted to 'co-opt the media to whip up a storm' by contacting journalists and public figures.

Albayrak upped his ransom to 100,000 US dollars (around £76,000) in Bitcoin, in what prosecution James Dawes QC called 'a cynical attempt to extort money from one of the world's largest companies'

He grinned in the dock as the court heard how he 'boasted' to friends online that he could crack the codes to 1.8m accounts per hour.

'He said I can probably crack about 1.8m accounts an hour and other such boasts to friends of his and sent a link to a Daily Mail article on the topic,' said James Hawes QC, prosecuting.

'He said I can demand a ransom.'

When Apple reached out to the 22-year-old asking him to stop, he responded: 'Well I would have tried to be nicer to you guys but your rep was being a complete p****.

'I'm not gonna release dump for free, I have a better plan, it's going to wreck your company LOL and when it does you'll be held responsible.'

Albayrak admitted blackmail and two charges of unauthorised access to computer material at Southwark Crown Court.

After Albayrak's arrest in March 2017, police found a hard drive with more than four million lines of customer data. However, according to defence Gillian Jones QC, 'of the four million found on the hard drive, large numbers were duplicates'.

Ms Jones described the computer enthusiast as a 'man who sought escapism by going on to the computer,' and who 'spent his formative years in a virtual reality'.

As well as financial reward, Albayrak also sought to 'gain some kind of online fame,' she said.

Passing sentence, Judge Christopher Hehir said: 'The court has extended an opportunity to you today.

'Be sure to take it because you won't get a second chance.'