The photographer who captured Prince Harry and Meghan's Markle's engagement and wedding pictures has revealed there was a strict 'no kissing' policy for the snaps.

Alexi Lubomirski, who was born in the UK and is a prince of the Polish House of Lubomirski, told how there are 'definitely certain boundaries' when it comes to capturing the perfect shot.

'You can't have them kissing, you can't have them screaming and running through the garden and obviously you have to see the ring,' he said, speaking to The Evening Standard. 'But I think it’s within those guidelines that the creativity happens.'

New-York based photographer Alexi was asked to take the couple's engagement photographs after Meghan Markle's friend - Marcus Anderson - is believed to have seen his work while scrolling through Instagram.

Alexi Lubomirski, who captured Prince Harry and Meghan's Markle's engagement and wedding pictures, told how there was a strict 'no kissing' policy for the snaps. Pictured, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex on their wedding day at St George's Chapel at Windsor Castle on 19 May 2018

The photographer told how he had just three minutes to capture the snap of the duke and duchess on the stairs

The British fashion photographer was then asked to take snaps on their wedding day, which was held on 19 May 2018 in St George's Chapel at Windsor Castle.

After the couple had finished their official photographs in the green room at Frogmore House in Windsor, he took them outside to the rose garden.

In one of his shots, the duke and duchess can be seen smiling as they cosy up on some steps.

Alexi explained how he captured the special moment, despite having just a three-minute window to get the shot.

Alexi Lubomirski (pictured) captured Prince Harry and Meghan's Markle's engagement and wedding pictures

The fashion photographer also told how he took their official wedding portrait at a 45-degree angle to help reflect their 'modern' nature

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex with baby son Archie Harrison Mountbatten-Windsor during a photocall in St George's Hall at Windsor Castle in Berkshire

He explained: 'The Palace official was looking at me saying "we're going to have to turn around soon" and I was like OK, OK "just sit down on these stairs."

'And they literally just sort of slumped down, laughing. Sort of looking at each other going "oh my god, we're married."'

Following the brief shoot, Alexi says he 'burst into tears' - partly due to relief, but also because the photo was so beautiful.

He added the couple were so 'natural on camera,' that despite having just 25 minutes to capture six different set-ups, the photos all achieved a 'relaxed, organic feel.'



The father-of-two, who was born in the UK, was a protégé of Mario Testino who was beloved by Harry's mother Princess Diana and photographed William and Kate when they got engaged in 2010.

The star photographer is also a prince of the Polish House of Lubomirski, whose royal lineage stretches back 500 years on his father's side and gives him the title: 'His Serene Highness'.

He attended the royal wedding on Saturday with his wife Giada before stepping behind the scenes with Harry and Meghan to capture their official portraits.

Alexi is a firm favorite with celebrities, and has shot cover stars such as Angelina Jolie, Julianne Moore, Beyonce, Demi Moore, Charlize Theron, Natalie Portman, Jennifer Lopez, Selma Hayek, Katy Perry, Sarah Jessica Parker, Jennifer Aniston, Emilia Clarke, Julia Roberts, Nicole Kidman and Scarlett Johansson.

On the day itself, Alexi recalls 'practically screaming' at the lovebirds to hold the 'perfect' frame, after asking Prince Harry to wrap his bride-to-be up in his coat on the winter's day at Frogmore House - which would later serve as their wedding reception venue.