President Donald Trump said Friday that he has had a 'very good talk' with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping on a partial resolution of the two countries' huge trade war.

Trump tweeted that China has 'already started large scale' increases in purchases of U.S. farm goods, in line with the deal. However, he did not give a date for when the deal that he has called 'phase one' of a larger agreement will actually be signed.

'Formal signing being arranged,' he said.

President Donald Trump said Friday that he has had a 'very good talk' with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping, and a 'formal signing' of a trade deal is in the works

Trump said on Twitter that Beijing had already started ramping up purchases of U.S. agriculture products and other goods

The 'phase one' is a partial resolution that is expected to see China boost imports of US agricultural and other goods, while Washington has eased massive tariffs on Chinese imports.

However it falls a long way short of the fundamental changes in Chinese trade policies that Trump had sought and which will now be put off to a second phase.

Trump said he and Xi also discussed North Korea, which is resisting U.S.-led pressure to dismantle its increasingly sophisticated nuclear program, and also the pro-democracy unrest in Hong Kong, where Trump noted 'progress!'

Trump met with Xi Jinping at the G20 leaders summit in Osaka, Japan in June (pictured), and thetwo sit down whenever they're at the same events

'Had a very good talk with President Xi of China concerning our giant Trade Deal. China has already started large scale purchase of agricultural product & more. Formal signing being arranged,' Trump wrote Friday.

The president said a week ago that his administration had agreed to cancel a new round of tariffs on Chinese goods as part of 'phase one,' but insisted that earlier import taxes would remain in force.

In a press conference minutes earlier, however, China's State Council said it expected all U.S. tariffs on Chinese products to be phased out in stages.

The president tweeted that the 'amazing deal' will involve Beijing making 'massive purchases' of U.S. energy, farm produce and manufactured goods

Trump tweeted at the time that '[t]he 25% Tariffs will remain as is, with 7 1/2% put on much of the remainder.'

'The Penalty Tariffs set for December 15th will not be charged,' however, 'because of the fact that we made the deal. We will begin negotiations on the Phase Two Deal immediately, rather than waiting until after the 2020 Election.'

Trump called it 'an amazing deal for all.'

Beijing said the deal would provide more protection for foreign companies in China, and for Chinese companies in the United States.

Bloomberg reported that Chinese official revealed the text of the nine-chapter deal covers 'intellectual property, forced technology transfer, food and agricultural products, finance, currency and transparency, boosting trade, bilateral assessment and dispute resolution.'