Rebel Wilson is home for the holidays in her native Sydney, Australia.

The 39-year-old arrived at Sydney Airport on Monday, flanked by her lookalike sister Liberty and her little niece.

The Hollywood star looked casual but chic in a pink Kenzo sweatshirt with tiger embroidery emblazoned on the front.

Homecoming! On Monday, casually dressed Rebel Wilson (left) touched down at Sydney Airport with her sister Liberty (right), and her niece. She is in town for the Christmas holidays

The actress added a pair of edgy black tights that were finished with a leather portion running down from the calf towards the ankle.

She completed the look with a black cap and a pair of pointed, black leather flats with a gold design on the heel.

Rebel hid her famous face behind a pair of chic designer sunglasses and wore her blonde hair in a ponytail.

Cool: The 39-year-old looked casual but chic in a pink Kenzo sweatshirt with tiger embroidery emblazoned on the front. The actress added a pair of edgy black tights

Sweet: The Pitch Perfect actress carried a blue leather Givenchy handbag under her arm. She looked delighted to be in the company of her sister and niece

The Pitch Perfect actress carried a blue-green leather Givenchy handbag under her arm.

She looked delighted to be in the company of her sister, who was dressed all in black, and held the hand of her niece.

On Sunday, Rebel had kicked off the festive season by sharing a snap to Instagram, in which she is straddling a Santa figurine.

Merry Christmas: On Sunday, Rebel had kicked off the festive season by sharing a snap to Instagram, in which she is straddling a Santa figurine

'Annnnnnd that's me peace-ing out for 2019!' she began in a sweet message for her fans.

She continued: 'Thank you to everyone who has been a part of my epic 2019, I appreciate you so much. Thank you to everyone who's supported me from afar - without you guys I wouldn't be here.'

In the Instagram post, Rebel is seen flashing a peace sign with each hand while she posed with the Christmas icon.