Families that often dine out and consume large quantities of sweets and alcohol are likely to have a higher carbon footprint than meat eaters, a study claims.

Researchers came to this conclusion after studying the food habits and carbon footprints of around 60,000 households across Japan.

They found that meat consumption typically only accounts for only 10 per cent of the different in environmental impact between low and high carbon households.

In contrast, households with high carbon footprints typically consumed around two to three times more sweets and alcohol than those with low footprints

Based on their findings, the team are now advising people to cut down their intake of these products to help save the planet.

Scroll down for video

Families in Japan that often dine out and consume large quantities of sweets and alcohol are likely to have a higher carbon footprint than meat eaters, a study claims

Economist Keiichiro Kanemoto of Japan's Research Institute for Humanity and Nature and colleagues surveyed the food supply chain and consumption habits of around 60,000 households from across Japan's 47 prefectures.

The researchers found that the levels of meat consumption were largely constant from household-to-households, but their carbon footprints varied considerably — with other foodstuffs appearing more responsible.

Eating out, for example, was found to contribute 175 per cent more carbon emissions for the average household than eating meats.

In fact, dining in restaurants was seen to contribute an annual average of 770 kilograms (121 stone) of greenhouse gases towards the environmental impact of those households with a high carbon footprint.

In contrast, meat consumption cost just 280 kilograms (44 stone).

In Japan, many households have turned vegan after learning that beef production emits 20 times the emissions per gram of protein as growing beans.

Professor Kanemoto and colleagues, however, have said that a one-size-fits-all policy is ill-advised.

'If we think of a carbon tax, it might be wiser to target sweets and alcohol if we want a progressive system,' said Professor Kanemoto.

'Our findings suggest that high carbon footprints are not only a problem for a small number of meat lovers in Japan.'

Experts studied the food habits and carbon footprints of around 60,000 households across Japan. Pictured, different households' dietary choices lead to different carbon footprints

The researchers found that meat consumption typically only accounts for only 10 per cent of the different in environmental impact between low and high carbon households

'If we are serious about reducing our carbon footprints, then our diets must change.

'It might be better to target less nutritious foods that are excessively consumed in some populations.'

The researchers, however, still advocate that people eat less meat in order to reduce their households' environmental impacts.

'Meat is a high carbon footprint food. Replacing red meat consumption with white meat and vegetables will lower a family's carbon footprint,' said Professor Kanemoto.

'If we think of a carbon tax, it might be wiser to target sweets and alcohol if we want a progressive system,' said Professor Kanemoto

'This evidence from Japan demonstrates that research can help us to identify what to focus on. The same patterns of dietary change in terms of sugar, alcohol and dining out need to be considered in the UK, Australia, the US and Europe,' said Dr Christian Reynolds

'Due to wealth, culture, and farming practices, different regions in a country consume food differently,' added paper author and University of Sheffield geographer Christian Reynolds.

'Japan alone has some prefectures with more than 10 million people and others with fewer than one million,' he noted, adding that similar regional and income differences in food consumption are found in other countries as well.

'All countries are facing challenges in how to shift diets to be healthier and more sustainable.'

'This evidence from Japan demonstrates that research can help us to identify what to focus on. The same patterns of dietary change in terms of sugar, alcohol and dining out need to be considered in the UK, Australia, the US and Europe.'

The full findings of the study were published in the journal One Earth.