Former Kentucky Governor Matt Bevin is coming under fire for defending his pardon of a convicted child rapist.

Bevin, who lost to Democrat Andy Beshear last month in a close race, issued a total of 428 pardons since the November 5 election and leaving office last week, according to the Kentucky Secretary of State's office.

One of them was for 41-year-old Micah Schoettle, who was accused of raping a nine-year-old girl.

He was convicted of rape, sodomy, and sexual abuse and was sentenced to 23 years in prison in 2018. He had served just 18 months when Bevin pardoned him.

In a radio interview on Thursday, when Bevin was asked why he allowed Schoettle to walk free, he claimed there was 'zero evidence' of rape and that the girl's hymen was still intact.

Micah Schoettle, 41 (pictured), who is accused of raping a nine-year-old girl was one of the 428 people pardoned by former Kentucky Governor Matt Bevin

Schoettle was found guilty of rape, sodomy, and sexual abuse in 2018 and sentenced to 23 years in prison, for which he only served 18 months. Pictured: Bevin, right, with President Donald Trump the night before the Kentucky gubernatorial election

In the interview, with talk radio host Terry Meiners of WHAS, Bevin - a father of nine - was asked to justify some of his pardons.

'Which one, though? Because there were a couple of people that were accused of that whose sentences I commuted,' Bevin said, according to the Louisville Courier Journal.

Meiners then clarified that he was talking about Schoettle.

Bevin revealed that the victim's sister was present during the assaults allegedly occurred and says the sister denies the accusations.

'These girls both were examined medically. They were examined physically. There was zero evidence. Zero. Both their hymens were intact,' he said.

'This is perhaps more specific than people would want, but trust me, if you have been repeatedly sexually violated as a small child by an adult, there are going to be repercussions of that physically and medically.'

But academic studies and medical experts say that an intact hymen is not evidence that a child has not been raped.

The hymen is a very small and thin piece of tissue that partially covers the opening of the vagina, forming part of the external genitalia.

Historically, it was believed that during a woman's first time having sex, the hymen would 'break' or tear and cause bleeding.

But sometimes the hymen does not tear during intercourse. It can also be torn in other ways.

'Rape is not proved by hymen penetration,' the state's former chief medical examiner, Dr George Nichols, told the Courier Journal.

'Rape is proved by phallic penetration...where the vaginal lips meet the outer surface of the vagina.

'He not only doesn't know the law, in my humble opinion, he clearly doesn't know medicine and anatomy.'

Bevin (left and right) said there was no evidence that Schoettle had abused the girl because a medical exam showed her hymen was intact. Experts say that this claim is incorrect that an intact hymen is not proof that a child has not been raped

Bevin also defended his pardon of convicted killer Patrick Brian Baker, 41 (pictured), whose brother raised $21,500 for Bevin's campaign

A survey conducted by the Institute of Legal Medicine at the University of Brazilia, in Brazil, found that just 2.1 percent of victims of child rape had lesions on their hymen.

Kenton County Commonwealth's Attorney Rob Sanders, who prosecuted Schoettle, criticized Bevin's comments and has asked for an investigation into the pardon, the Courier Journal reported.

'Even the defense experts testified they would not expect to find an injury in the victim's sexual assault exam,' Sanders told the newspaper.

This was the subject of an eight-hour court hearing Matt Bevin obviously never watched.'

Another pardon came for Patrick Brian Baker, who was convicted of homicide and other crimes in a fatal 2014 home break-in in Knox County, according to the Courier Journal.

Baker's family raised $21,500 at a political fundraiser at their home last year for Bevin to cover debt from his 2015 campaign for governor.

Bevin said that Baker wouldn't have called for a federal investigation into his case if he wasn't innocent.

'These things will come out and the prosecutor and the law enforcement that was involved in that should be very nervous right now because, I'll tell you what, not everything is kosher with respect to how that all went down,' Bevin said. 'Not at all.'