They're set to celebrate the upcoming festive season together.

And Eva Longoria was in high spirits as she arrived at the Beckham's home to celebrate Christmas with husband José Bastón, 51, and their son Santiago, 18 months.

The actress, 44, headed into the West London home on Friday, while Victoria, 45, was also seen behind the wheel of her £146,000 Mercedes-AMG G63 as she ran some last-minute errands.

Exciting: Eva Longoria, 44, was in high spirits as she arrived at the Beckham's house on Friday ahead of celebrating the festive season together

Eva cut a chic figure in skinny white trousers and a matching beige overcoat as she headed into the Beckham's home.

Her hunky husband followed close behind with their son, and they were eagerly welcomed into close friend Victoria's home.

Victoria was later spotted driving out of the home in her high-end vehicle, presumably heading for the Cotswolds to mark the festive season.

Eva is set to spend Christmas with the Beckham's in the Cotswolds, having been longtime friends both David, 44, and Victoria.

Busy: After a few hours Victoria was seen driving her family and Eva's out of the house in her £146,000 Mercedes-AMG G63, presumably heading to the Cotswolds

Stylish: Eva cut a casual figure in skinny white trousers, a matching trench coat and trainers as she headed into the home

Smart: Eva's husband of three years José Bastón was also seen heading into the property, as the family prepare to celebrate the festive season with the Beckhams

Beaming: The Desperate Housewives star was still effortlessly chic as she headed into the London property

Supportive: The couple were also joined by their young son Santiago, 18 months, with Eva carrying some clothes for him into the home

It's also been reported they will also celebrate the christenings of Victoria's two youngest children Cruz, 14, and Harper, eight.

Sources previously claimed that the family will mark the christenings with a lavish celebration, and Victoria has asked Eva to be Harper's godmother.

It was also reported by The Sun that Guy Ritchie will be godfather to Cruz.

Questions: It has been rumoured that Eva will join close pals Victoria and David in The Cotswolds to celebrate the christenings of their children Cruz, 14, and Harper, eight

Tis the season: David and Victoria reportedly feel the time is right for Cruz (left) and Harper (right) to be christened

Supportive: It has also been reported that Eva will be Harper's godmother, having known the schoolgirl since she was born

Relaxed: José cut a casual figure as he headed into the property with his wife, ahead of the festive celebration with the Beckhams

The celebrations are said to be happening at the Beckhams' Cotswolds manor house, with guests Liv Tyler, Sir Elton John and David Furnish also invited. Elton is already godfather to Brooklyn and Romeo.

A source said: 'They have asked party-goers to dress in full-length and fabulous. They really enjoy family events like this and are very proud parents.

'They think Christmas is the perfect time for a christening party. Drinks will be flowing, chefs will serve amazing food and there will be spectacular fireworks.'

Flawless: Despite the low-key outing Eva was still effortlessly stylish as she headed into the Beckham's home

Off they go! Later Victoria was spotted behind the wheel of the family's £150,000 G Wagon hours later, presumably heading for The Cotswolds

Exciting: Sources have claimed that The Beckhams will celebrate the christenings in the country manor with a star-studded guest list

Victoria's ride comes after her husband David was spotted using his phone after parking illegally in his car earlier this month.

The retired footballer was stripped of his driving licence in May and banned from driving for six months after he was caught with his phone on his knee while driving his £100k Bentley.

At the time David was ordered to pay a £750 fine and had six points added to his licence, after admitting to using his phone while driving in November 2018.

In command: Victoria was behind the wheel after David was spotted illegally parting his car in South Kensington earlier this month

On the move: The fashion designer took command of driving the vehicle as she and her family prepared to celebrate Christmas with Eva

Eva has been married to husband José since May 2016, when the couple tied the knot in Mexico. They welcomed son Santiago in June 2018.

The Desperate Housewives star previously revealed how much motherhood had changed her 'in every way' in an interview with Haute Living.

'Everything is different' she said. 'You're no longer the centre of your universe. Now, everything revolves around him and his schedule and his needs - happily so.'