Arizona Cardinals cornerback Josh Shaw has dropped his appeal of a one-year NFL suspension for gambling on league games, a person with knowledge of the move told The Associated Press on Friday.

The person spoke to the AP on condition of anonymity because Shaw's decision to drop the appeal has not been made public.

Late last month, Shaw was suspended through at least the end of the 2020 season for betting on NFL games on multiple occasions this season, the first time in more than 35 years an NFL player has been banned for gambling. The little-known Shaw hasn´t played for the Cardinals this season after being placed on injured reserve following an injury during the preseason. He was signed by the Cardinals in the offseason to a one-year deal.

His suspension comes as the NFL - and other U.S. sports leagues - enters an era when legal sports gambling is spreading across the country and gaining mainstream acceptance. For pro sports to coexist with gambling, they must avoid the scandal that would arise from betting by players and others who can directly affect the outcome of games.

"The continued success of the NFL depends directly on each of us doing everything necessary to safeguard the integrity of the game and the reputations of all who participate in the league. At the core of this responsibility is the longstanding principle that betting on NFL games, or on any element of a game, puts at risk the integrity of the game, damages public confidence in the NFL, and is forbidden under all circumstances," Commissioner Roger Goodell said in a statement when announcing the suspension on Nov. 29. "If you work in the NFL in any capacity, you may not bet on NFL football."

According to the NFL, a league investigation found no evidence that Shaw used inside information or compromised any games. Shaw hasn´t been in uniform since he suffered a shoulder injury in the preseason opener.

FILE - In this July 30, 2019, file photo, Arizona Cardinals' Josh Shaw runs drills during the teams' NFL football training camp in Glendale, Ariz. Shaw has been suspended indefinitely for betting on NFL games on multiple occasions this season, the first time in more than 35 years a player has been banned for gambling. He has now been suspended through at least the end of the 2020 season. The league announced the suspension on Friday, Nov. 29, 2019. (AP Photo/Matt York, File)

The league also said it found no evidence that teammates, coaches or other players were aware of Shaw betting on games.

The NFL did not say where Shaw placed his bets. Sports betting is now legal in 13 states after a Supreme Court decision in 2018 struck down the federal law that had limited full-scale legal sports betting to Nevada. The NFL has long been opposed to the expansion of legal gambling but since the decision has softened its stance and entered into limited partnerships with sportsbook operators.

Suspensions of NFL players for betting are rare. The highest-profile case was in 1963 when Paul Hornung of the Green Bay Packers and Alex Karras of the Detroit Lions were banned for the entire season. Both were reinstated the following season and Hornung went on to make the Hall of Fame.

In the most recent case, Baltimore Colts quarterback Art Schlichter was suspended in 1983 for betting on NFL games and other sporting events. He, too, was reinstated the following year.

The 27-year-old Shaw was a fourth-round draft pick by the Cincinnati Bengals out of USC in 2015. He spent three seasons with Cincinnati - starting 12 games in 2016 - and was cut at the start of last season. He played four games last year for Kansas City and four games for Tampa Bay.

___

AP Sports Writer David Brandt in Phoenix contributed to this report.

More AP NFL: https://apnews.com/NFL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports