They became engaged last month.

And TOWIE star Olivia Attwood and her footballer beau Bradley Dack certainly look every inch the loved up Mr and Mrs-to-be as they emerged in Cheshire on Friday.

The former Love Island star, 28, went super low-key in a skin-tight black trousers with a padded jacket and a £2,600 Louis Vuitton Bumbag, while her fiancé donned a coordinating black tracksuit for maximum comfort.

Love's young dream: TOWIE star Olivia Attwood and her footballer beau Bradley Dack certainly look every inch the loved up Mr and Mrs-to-be as they emerged in Cheshire on Friday

Olivia looked low-key yet lovely on the outing as she stepped out in the tight black ensemble as she strutted down the street.

She was perfectly matched to her partner, who was donning a black tracksuit with box-fresh white trainers while slicking his long-hair back.

Olivia found romance with her ex-boyfriend Chris Hughes during the third series of the hit ITV2 show Love Island in 2017.

Yet earlier this week she candidly revealed that she set her sights on the dating show in order to gain notoriety rather than a relationship, just hours after her name was thrown into the ring as the new host of spin-off show Aftersun on Tuesday.

Happy days: The former Love Island star, 28, went super low-key in a skin-tight black trousers with a padded jacket and a £2,600 Louis Vuitton Bumbag, while her fiancé donned a coordinating black tracksuit for maximum comfort

Replying to one of her Instagram followers who accused her of using the programme for fame, the TOWIE regular replied saying 'no s**t Sherlock!'

Although the reality star left the villa in a relationship with Chris, who is now dating Jesy Nelson, she revealed she only went in to increase her public platform.

Olivia, who also finished in third place with Chris during her turn on the show, tweeted during last summer's series to hit out at Anton Danyluk for claiming he didn't care about money.

Here she is! Olivia found romance with her ex-boyfriend Chris Hughes during the third series of the hit ITV2 show Love Island in 2017 (pictured on Love Island in 2017)

‘I love Antonio I really do, but, no one goes on @LoveIsland for just for ‘love’ .. including you and your shaven bum [sic]' she tweeted.

In a further tweet, she agreed with fellow Islander Kady McDermott who slated Molly-Mae Hague for also claiming she went on the show in search of love.

Kady didn't hold back when it came to assessing the most recent batch of Islanders as she took a swipe at Molly-Mae Hague for 'lying' about going on the show with the sole intention of finding love.

During a brutal tweet challenge, which involved reading out tweets from the public, one claimed Molly-Mae didn't like Tommy Fury and was only 'after £50K'.