A Chinese couple who tried to cross the same road without observing traffic regulations 10 minutes apart have been hit by cars at the same spot.

The two accidents in the central province of Hubei this week were captured by surveillance footage, which has been released by police.

The wife, who was brought down first, sustained minor injuries. Her husband was more seriously wounded and taken to a hospital, police said.

Footage shows the first victim, the wife, trying to cross the road on an electric bike in China

She gets brought down by a white car after entering a right-turning lane of the thoroughfare

The woman manages to stand up on her own almost immediately before traffic police arrive

The crashes took place on Tuesday morning on Chengdong Avenue in the city of Yichang, according to the Traffic Management Bureau of the Ministry of Public Security of China.

The authority yesterday released a CCTV video on Weibo, the Chinese equivalent to Twitter, to warn the public against ignoring traffic rules.

The footage shows the wife, who is on an electric bike, trying to cross the six-lane road unlawfully first.

She is seen squeezing through tiny gaps between cars waiting for a green light, before coming to a right-turning lane where she rams into a white car.

The clip shows her standing up one her own almost immediately and then being brought away from the scene by police.

About 10 minutes later, the woman's husband is caught on camera jaywalking at the same spot

He is knocked over and sent flying by another white car after entering the right-turning lane

The man struggles on the road in agony after being hit on Chengdong Avenue in Yichang

Around 10 minutes later, her husband is caught on camera crossing the same stretch of road carelessly by running along a gap between cars which have stopped for lights.

When he is seen entering the right-turning lane but failing to avoid a car, which is also white. The car knocks him down and sends him flying.

The video captures the man struggling on the road in agony. His wife, who has been talking to police on the pavement, spots him and limps towards him.

The police called for an ambulance to take the man to the hospital.

The couple's identities were not revealed.

Yichang Traffic Police urged the public to follow traffic regulations and avoid taking shortcuts.

The woman limps towards her husband after realising he got mowed down right after she did