A DoorDash worker was caught on camera brazenly stealing packages from a California apartment block where she had just delivered an Indian takeaway.

Surveillance footage showed the woman methodically stacking up a pile of parcels in the lobby of the building and putting them in a crate last Sunday evening.

She then picked up the box and calmly walked out to the sidewalk, where she took the packages to her car and drove off.

Several residents of the Berkeley apartment block later noticed they were missing packages and police released the footage yesterday as they appealed for information about the suspect.

Apartment manager Ethan Cheng told KPIX that the theft had been spotted when a resident complained that a package they were expecting had not arrived.

When they raised the issue, several of their neighbors said they were also missing parcels - prompting Cheng to check the surveillance footage.

Later, the customer who had ordered an Indian takeaway on DoorDash said they had found the delivery worker's name on the app.

The footage shows the contractor arriving with a bag of food in her hand, and appearing to cast her eye over the nearby pile of packages when another woman lets her in the building.

Arrival: The DoorDash delivery worker arrives with a bag of food and appears to examine the pile of packages as she enters the building

Delivery: The woman hands over an Indian takeaway to a resident of the Berkeley apartment block. Several residents later noticed they were missing packages

A man then emerges from a door to collect the food, which the delivery worker hands over.

With the hallway now deserted, the woman starts gathering up the packages without appearing to check her surroundings.

The packages included at least three items ordered via Amazon, as well as one package from Redbubble which was left behind.

After packing as many as she can into a nearby crate, the woman calmly walks out to her car without being noticed.

Brazen theft: The woman starts gathering up parcels, including at least three Amazon boxes, without even appearing to stop to check her surroundings

Collection: The DoorDash worker gathers up as many of the packages as she can fit into a crate by the entrance

Escape: The woman calmly walks out to her car without being noticed by residents of the Haste Street apartment block last Sunday

Footage taken from the front of the building then shows her climbing into the parked car and driving off down Haste Street.

DoorDash say they have identified the woman in the video and 'deactivated' her from the platform for 'failing to follow our code of conduct'.

'We take the safety of our community extremely seriously and do not tolerate any form of inappropriate behavior,' a spokesman told DailyMail.com.

'We sincerely regret that this incident fell short of the experience we strive to give our customers every day. Since learning of this incident, we have taken action, including permanently deactivating the Dasher from our platform for failing to follow our code of conduct, and we are working with the customer and local law enforcement to rectify the situation.'

Berkeley Police told members of the public with information about the suspect to contact the force's Property Crimes Unit at (510) 981-5737.