Trevor Francis became the first British footballer to command a £1 million transfer fee when he completed a move from Birmingham City to Nottingham Forest in 1979.

40 years later, when the record in the men's game is an eye-watering £198 million following Neymar's move from Barcelona to Paris Saint-Germain in 2017, fees in the women's game don't even come close.

They're usually such insignificant figures they're not even disclosed.

Australia international Sam Kerr will be eligible to play for Chelsea when the window opens

Chelsea manager Emma Hayes welcomes Kerr to Chelsea officially back in November

The women's winter transfer window in England opens on 27 December, slamming shut 28 days later on 23 January - minus Jim White and the hideous yellow ties on Sky Sports News.

To even refer to that period as a 'transfer window' is still somewhat of a novelty.

But given transfer activity is so far relatively limited, a player handing in a transfer request or a last ditch move similar to defender Alex Greenwood's switch from Manchester United to Lyon in the summer, is typically as exciting as it gets.

In 2018, FIFA released their first ever - and still the only - official evaluation of transfer activity across the women's game following the introduction of the International Transfer Matching System (as used in the men's game), in January of the same year.

The report revealed clubs spent just £375,000 on transfers in 2018, with transfers out of contract proving to be the most common, accounting for 88.9 per cent of all moves.

Alex Greenwood's (right) summer move from Manchester United to Lyon generated interest

Players making the step up from part-time football and signing their first professional deal also fall into that category.

With the vast majority of transfers not including a transfer fee whatsoever, the total amount spent came from only 3.2 per cent of the moves completed.

It's hoped that Sam Kerr's arrival at Chelsea in January 2020 will be somewhat of a catalyst in kick starting a spending spree amongst the leading clubs in Europe, at least.

Though we're probably quite some time away from seeing players unveiled to supporters in showpiece events in their home stadiums or even in press conferences, the world-class Australian striker has sparked an unprecedented level of global media interest, similar to that typically seen in the Premier League.

New Chelsea signing Kerr is action for Australia in a friendly with Chile last month

With the FA Women's Super League now largely considered the most popular destination for players, surpassing the likes of the NWSL in the USA, the growing fan base is crying out for a drama-filled transfer window - even if the club's press officers are not so eager to embrace the rumour mill.

On the whole clubs across the FA WSL are refusing to be drawn into conversations about potential moves and medicals, in contrast to the men's game - notoriously driven by leaks.

Whilst we're in no hurry to see players throwing their toys out of the pram on deadline day or waiting in the car park of a possible employer in the hope of pushing through a move, it's about time we injected some long awaited excitement into the women's transfer window.