He won acclaim for his role in 2008 film Defiance, in which he and Liev Schreiber played Jewish brothers in Nazi-occupied Europe who saved Jews during World War II.

And Daniel Craig appeared to be taking inspiration from the drama as he arrived in New York City's JFK Airport on Friday.

The James Bond actor, 51, looked suave as he strolled through the terminal in a tan leather jacket and slate trousers, which were near-identical to an outfit worn by his character Tuvia Bielski in the film.

Style: Daniel Craig appeared to be taking inspiration from the drama as he arrived in New York City's JFK Airport on Friday

The Layer Cake star donned a blue shirt and gauzy scarf and teamed the look with slate grey chinos and tan leather boots.

Adding a debonair edge, he wore a Baker Boy Cap as he carried his luggage through the airport.

In Defiance, Daniel played Tuvia, the leader of the Bielski partisans, who fought in the forests of Belarus during World War II, and saved 1,200 people from the Nazis.

The role came two years after his much-hyped debut as Bond in 2006's Casino Royale.

Spitting image: The James Bond actor, 51, looked suave as he strolled through the terminal in a tan leather jacket and slate trousers, which were near-identical to an outfit worn by his character Tuvia Bielski in the film (R)

The sighting comes after the trailer for No Time To Die - Craig's fifth and final outing as 007 - was released earlier this month and quickly whipped Bond fans into a frenzy.

The teaser was typically dramatic with Bond in a high-speed chase alongside his love Madeleine Swann before launching himself off a bridge and later coming face to face with Nomi, played by Lashana Lynch, who is rumoured to be the first female 007.

The footage from the highly-anticipated film, directed by Cary Joji Fukunaga and co-written by Fleabag's Phoebe Waller-Bridge, shows Daniel back in the role but no longer working as the spy with the licence to kill.

It shows his first meeting with Nomi who brusquely tells him: 'The world has moved on Commander Bond. You get in my way I will put a bullet in your knee. The one that works.'

Suave: The Layer Cake star donned a blue shirt and gauzy scarf and teamed the look with slate grey chinos and tan leather boots

War drama: He won acclaim for his role in 2008 film Defiance, in which he and Liev Schreiber played Jewish brothers in Nazi-occupied Europe who saved Jews during World War II

When Bond asks her if she is a double 0, she confirms she has been for two years.

The return of Blofeld, who has been one of Bond's enemies since the ‘60s, was also confirmed in the trailer after endless fan speculation.

Bond and Madeleine ran off together at the end of 2015's Spectre and have been living off the grid together until Bond is visited by Felix Leiter (Jeffrey Wright) to call him back into action.

When Madeleine questions: 'Why would I betray you?' he says: 'We all have our secrets, we just didn't get to yours yet.'

Blofeld, who was the key villain in Spectre, is now under lock and key and is chained up behind glass when Bond interviews him about what he knows.

The criminal mastermind tells him: 'You gave up everything for her. When her secret finds its way out it will the death of you.'

Iconic: The sighting comes after the trailer for No Time To Die - Craig's fifth and final outing as 007 - was released earlier this month and quickly whipped Bond fans into a frenzy

Newbie? Lashana Lynch, who plays Nomi, is reportedly set to replace Bond and makes a sassy entrance to the franchise with her goading behaviour in the trailer - and joins new Bond Girl Ana De Armas as Paloma (R)

Villainous: Rami is taking the role as lead villain Safin in the movie

The name's Naomie... Naomie Harris, who plays Miss Moneypenny, makes an appearance alongside James and Nom

As Ralph Fiennes' M cautions: 'The world is arming faster than we can respond,' there are only brief looks at Rami Malek's mysterious villain Safin, who seems to be heavily scarred and covering much of his face with a white mask.

The Oscar winner only shows his full face towards the end of the trailer, when Bond tells him: 'History is not kind to men who play God.'

There is also mystery in the footage when Madeleine appears with Nomi and Bond is shocked to see them together and also high-octane stunts, when Bond leaps off a huge bridge swinging from a rope and engages in a thrilling motorcycle chase over rooftops.

The trailer ends with Bond in driver's seat of the Aston Martin taking heavy gun fire but protected by bulletproof glass, before he releases huge machine guns from the headlights.

Bond's true love? Lea Seydoux reprises her role as Dr Madeleine Swann in the hotly anticipated new film