An obese man who weighed 55 stones and took up four hospital beds despite being medically fit enough to be discharged has finally left hospital after an 18-month stay.

Matthew Crawford was admitted to The King's Mill Hospital in Sutton-in-Ashfield, Nottinghamshire, in May last year.

The 34-year-old is thought to have cost the NHS hundreds of thousands of pounds by blocking off vital bed space that also resulted in nurses having to turn other patients away.

Matthew Crawford (pictured) was admitted to The King's Mill Hospital in Sutton-in-Ashfield, Nottinghamshire, in May last year

The 34-year-old is thought to have cost the NHS hundreds of thousands of pounds by blocking off vital bed space that also resulted in nurses having to turn other patients away

Mr Crawford was deemed medically fit enough to be discharged but did not leave as there was no appropriate social care space available.

An NHS source at the time told The Mirror: ­'Everybody is sick to the back teeth with the situation and it's about time it was exposed.

'There's nothing medically wrong with Matt now but we're powerless to get rid of him.'

'There's space for four people who need to be on the ward being taken up by one bloke who doesn't.'

They added that a move to a different unit had fallen through after learning he had a conviction for attacking nurses.

The Lincoln City supporter was deemed medically fit enough to be discharged but did not leave because there was no appropriate social care space available

But now, more than a year later, the trust has revealed that he has finally moved to a 'more appropriate setting'

But now, more than a year later, the trust has revealed that he has finally been moved to a 'more appropriate setting'.

A spokesperson for Sherwood Forest Hospitals NHS Trust said: 'While we are not able to comment on the care of individual patients for reasons of confidentiality, we can confirm that Mr Crawford is no longer in the care of Sherwood Forest Hospitals.

'We are pleased for all concerned that he is now in a more appropriate setting.'

Mr Crawford himself confirmed he had left hospital on his Facebook post on Tuesday.

Mr Crawford himself confirmed he had left hospital on his Facebook page on Tuesday

Mr Crawford had previously used his social media platforms to hit back at critics and respond to claims he was using his benefits to order takeaways from his hospital bed

The Lincoln City supporter had previously used his social media platforms to hit back at critics and respond to claims he was using his benefits to order takeaways from his hospital bed.

He wrote: 'If you all knew the truth you would think different.

'I've not had a takeaway for months and even before that, I would have one every couple of weeks.

'The only food my mum brings in for me is some haslet and pickle cobs which have instead of a hospital dinner.

'I was originally admitted I was seriously ill with sepsis and I took a lot of persuading for them to take me to hospital.

'Social services didn't do anything to help find me a placement for nearly three months until the hospitals legal team got involved.'

It is thought that since his release Mr Crawford has also joined Slimming World.