Hunter Biden grumbled about having his financial information 'open to the world's media' and not being available on the night before Christmas Eve for a deposition in his paternity case, according to newly unsealed court papers obtained exclusively by DailyMail.com.

Biden is embroiled in a high profile legal battle with his stripper baby mama Lunden Roberts, who filed papers in May saying Biden is the father of her 16-month-old child. A DNA test from last month proved Biden to be the father of the unnamed toddler.

Roberts, 28, is seeking child support from Biden, 49, and is demanding for him to turn over his financial details so the court can establish how much he should pay.

Biden has been trying to keep the case under wraps but an Independence County, Arkansas judge ruled on Thursday to unseal Biden's filing from last week, saying he didn't consider it to contain confidential information.

It reveals Biden's legal team had tried to use Biden's famous dad Joe to get the deposition sealed, arguing that information that came from his deposition scheduled for December 23 could 'unreasonably annoy, embarrass or oppress' Hunter - and his family.

Hunter Biden grumbled about having his financial information 'open to the world's media' and not being available on Christmas Eve Eve for a deposition in his paternity case, in newly unsealed court papers obtained exclusively by DailyMail.com

His baby mama Lunden Roberts, 28, is seeking child support from Biden, 49, and is demanding for him to turn over his financial details so the court can establish how much he should pay

It reveals Biden's legal team had tried to use Biden's famous dad Joe to get the deposition sealed, arguing that information that came from his deposition scheduled for December 23 could 'unreasonably annoy, embarrass or oppress' Hunter - and his family

His lawyers went a step further and asked the judge to quash the deposition, saying by handing over an affidavit of his financial means should provide Roberts with 'all relevant information for any argument of temporary child support.'

On Wednesday, Roberts accused Biden of refusing to hand over his financial records and demanded him to turn over all documents pertaining to his accounts from the past five years.

She filed papers asking the court to compel him to turn over the records.

The two met while Roberts worked as a stripper at Mpire in Washington D.C. She gave birth to their child last August.

She wants Biden's financial records to establish how much he should pay in child support, as well as proving he can afford to foot her $11k legal bill.

Roberts' lawyers said in legal papers that Biden has objected to answering any of their discovery questions, which included confirming the state in which he lives, his phone number and if he worked for Ukrainian oil company Burisma.

Her lawyers said: 'It should, by now, be abundantly clear to the Court that the defendant is not going to answer or provide any of his discoverable financial information unless the Court forces him to do so.

'The defendant has provided no support for this child for over a year.

'The Court should not let the defendant continue to avoid his natural and legal duty to support his child by failing to provide basic information about his income, finances and lifestyle.

'This Court should compel the defendant to answer the interrogatories and requests for production documents in time for the January 7, 2020 hearing in this case.'

On Wednesday, Roberts accused Biden of refusing to hand over his financial records and demanded him for him to turn over all documents pertaining to his accounts from the past five years

The two met while Roberts worked as a stripper at Mpire in Washington D.C. (pictured). She gave birth to their child last August

DailyMail.com revealed last Friday that Biden's wife Melissa Cohen, 32, who he married after a 10-day romance in May, is pregnant with his fifth child and in her second trimester.

A close friend of Melissa's told DailyMailTV that while the couple is 'thrilled' at having a baby, there's also a lot of anxiety around the pregnancy.

The friend explained: 'Friends are deeply concerned, anyone who knows Melissa knows that she's one of the sweetest people you can meet.

'She's in love with Hunter and of course they're thrilled, but the pain and stress they're going through every day is cause for real concern.

'There is constant hatred directed towards them from Trump supporters and the President himself.

'People are attacking her, she's not running for office, her husband's dad is, all she wants to do is keep her unborn child safe.'

The source added: 'And Melissa is also not making a noise about being a new mom because she is respectful of the other woman's child and her mother.

'Luckily she's a very strong woman and she will get through this with Hunter because they have a love which is strong.'

Biden and Melissa are currently living in LA but are considering relocating to keep their family safe.

The latest filing comes days after DailyMail.com revealed Biden's new South African wife Melissa Cohen, 32, is pregnant with his fifth child and is in her second trimester. A close friend of Melissa told DailyMailTV that while the couple is 'thrilled' at having a baby, there's also a lot of anxiety around the pregnancy

The businessman - who has been at the center of a political firestorm over his links to a Ukrainian energy company - married Melissa 10 days after they met in an impromptu wedding on May 16 this year

Biden has three daughters from his first wife Kathleen - Naomi, Finnegan and Maisy. The two couple separated after 23 years of marriage, with their divorce finalized in 2017.

However, before they were officially divorced, Biden began dating his brother Beau's widow Hallie after he died from brain cancer in 2015.

The two were together for two years before splitting. Weeks later, it was announced Biden had married Melissa.

Despite Biden's personal bliss it's been a difficult few months for the businessman, whose father Joe is a frontrunner in the Democratic presidential race.

Biden served on the board of the Ukrainian oil company Burisma from April 2014 to April 2019.

He is said to have been paid as much as $83,000 a month, even though he had no experience in the energy industry.

His appointment to the board has been at the heart of the impeachment inquiry that House Democrats have launched into President Donald Trump as Trump is alleged to have pressed Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to find dirt on Biden in a bid to harm his father's presidential ambitions.

Amid the political furore Biden, who has been through rehab several times through drug addiction, has also been mired by the paternity suit.