Hugh Jackman is sure to set hearts aflutter when he's spotted out and about by his passionate fans.

And The Greatest Showman star may have just run into one of his most passionate fans yet.

He was spotted Sunday having a chance encounter with Brooke Shields in New York City.

Surprise encounter: Hugh Jackman was spotted Sunday having a chance encounter with Brooke Shields in New York City

The 51-year-old bundled up in a puffy hooded navy blue jacket with a pair of dark denim jeans.

He was out for a stroll with a couple of friends after dropping his dog off at the groomers.

While walking through the West Village, Jackman seemed to randomly run into The Blue Lagoon actress.

She wore a black jacket over a puffy black vest, paired with skinny dark denim jeans and black leather boots.

Bundled up: The 51-year-old bundled up in a puffy hooded navy blue jacket with a pair of dark denim jeans

Out and about: He was out for a stroll with a couple of friends after dropping his dog off at the groomers

Random run-in: While walking through the West Village, Jackman seemed to randomly run into The Blue Lagoon actress

Winter chic: She wore a black jacket over a puffy black vest, paired with skinny dark denim jeans and black leather boots

Biggest fan: The 54-year-old was ecstatic to run into Jackman, who seemed to share the sentiment

Hug it out: They shared a hug on the sidewalk during the encounter

Selfie please: Jackman also pulled out his phone to take a selfie

The 54-year-old was ecstatic to run into Jackman, who seemed to share the sentiment.

They shared a hug on the sidewalk before Jackman pulled out his phone to take a selfie.

Jackman recently had a less spontaneous run-in with another famous friend Ryan Reynolds.

The Deadpool star convinced him to wear the same ugly Christmas sweater Jackman and Jake Gyllenhaal tricked him into wearing the previous year.

In good spirit, Reynolds began donating identical sweaters to sick children, and he's agreed to match all donations to the SickKids Foundation until Christmas.

Old pals: Jackman recently had a less spontaneous run-in with another famous friend Ryan Reynolds