Martin Scorsese thinks cinemas have become 'consumed' by superhero movies.

The 77-year-old filmmaker has been an outspoken critic of superhero movies over recent months, and he's expressed concern that the genre is pushing other films to the periphery of the film business.

'We are in a situation now where the theaters are only showing the latest superhero films,' the legendary director told The Guardian. 'You have 12 screens - and 11 are the superhero film. You enjoy superhero films, fine, but you need 11 screens?

Get rid of the men in capes! Martin Scorsese thinks cinemas have become 'consumed' by superhero movies. The 77-year-old filmmaker has been an outspoken critic of superhero movies over recent months, and he's expressed concern that the genre is pushing other films to the periphery of the film business. Seen in November

Big time: His latest film is The Irishman with Robert De Niro as Frank Sheeran, Al Pacino as Jimmy Hoffa and Ray Romano as Bill Bufalino

'It's crazy for a picture like, you know, Lady Bird or The Souvenir. Those films may not necessarily be hugely commercial, but there are films that are modest and genuine and find a large audience,' he added.

'Just because a film is commercial doesn't mean it can't be art. What has consumed the theaters is product. A product is to be consumed and thrown away.

'Look at a commercial film like Singin' in the Rain. You can watch it again and again. So the question is: how are we going to protect the art form?'

No go? The acclaimed director - whose latest movie, The Irishman, was released in November - told the Guardian newspaper: 'Now, you don't have to like the picture, but you couldn't get The Aviator made today.' Leo with Gwen Stefani in the 2004 film

A thing of the past: 'You could not get Shutter Island made today, even with me and Leo [DiCaprio],' he said; Leo seen with Mark Ruffalo

Another smart film: 'The Departed got made despite itself - the star power helped,' he said. Here are Martin Sheen, Mark Wahlberg and Jack Nicholson in the 2006 hit

Scorsese also claimed that some of his best-known work wouldn't even reach the big screen in today's landscape.

The acclaimed director - whose latest movie, The Irishman, was released in November - told the Guardian: 'Now, you don't have to like the picture, but you couldn't get The Aviator made today.;

The film came out in 2004.

'You could not get Shutter Island made today, even with me and Leo [DiCaprio]. The Departed got made despite itself - the star power helped.'

The 2006 film had Leonardo, Matt Damon, Jack Nicholson, Martin Sheen and Alec Baldwin in lead roles.

'People comment that we've only shown this film in theaters for four weeks. We tried to get more, but the theater owners and Netflix couldn't come to terms. But you know, I've had pictures play only one week and get thrown out.'

Trio: He also said De Niro gave him the idea for The Irishman. 'When Bob came across this story and gave it to me, he said: “You know, this is an amazing part for Joe, if he wants to do it.” And also for Al Pacino – and I never worked with Al all these years, you know? We just knew that they were right for it.' Seen in London

He also said De Niro gave him the idea for The Irishman.

'When Bob came across this story and gave it to me, he said: “You know, this is an amazing part for Joe, if he wants to do it.” And also for Al Pacino – and I never worked with Al all these years, you know? We just knew that they were right for it. And then we looked at each other and realized we were meant for this somehow. It’s not necessarily a culmination, but a sense of contemplation of where we are, near the end of our lives.'

Scorsese also hinted that The Irishman may be his last movie.

'I don’t know how many more I can make – maybe this is it. The last one. So the idea was to at least get it made and maybe show it for one day at the NFT, maybe one day at the Cinémathèque in Paris. I’m not kidding.'