As fans flock to theaters to see Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker, the brother of the late Carrie Fisher is opening up about her final performance.

After Fisher passed away in December 2016, director J.J. Abrams confirmed he will use unused footage from 2015's Star Wars: The Force Awakens of Fisher in The Rise of Skywalker.

Her brother Todd Fisher spoke with TMZ, revealing he believes his sister would not have been opposed to a full digital re-creation of her character Leia Organa.

Opening up: As fans flock to theaters to see Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker, the brother of the late Carrie Fisher is opening up about her final performance

Not opposed: Her brother Todd Fisher spoke with TMZ , revealing he believes his sister would not have been opposed to a full digital re-creation of her character Leia Organa

After Fisher passed away in 2016, there had been rumors that Disney and LucasFilm were considering a digital version of Leia for the ninth and final movie of the Skywalker Saga.

While the studio rarely directly responds to rumors, they released a statement through StarWars.com in January 2017 stating they have no plans for a digital Leia.

'We don’t normally respond to fan or press speculation, but there is a rumor circulating that we would like to address. We want to assure our fans that Lucasfilm has no plans to digitally recreate Carrie Fisher’s performance as Princess or General Leia Organa,' the statement read.

Digital Carrie: After Fisher passed away in 2016, there had been rumors that Disney and LucasFilm were considering a digital version of Leia for the ninth and final movie of the Skywalker Saga

'Carrie Fisher was, is, and always will be a part of the Lucasfilm family. She was our princess, our general, and more importantly, our friend,' the statement added.

'We are still hurting from her loss. We cherish her memory and legacy as Princess Leia, and will always strive to honor everything she gave to Star Wars,' the statement concluded.

But Todd Fisher said a digital re-creation of her Princess Leia character would not have bothered her, if if was done in the right way, stating it would be, 'Better than nothing.'

Family: 'Carrie Fisher was, is, and always will be a part of the Lucasfilm family. She was our princess, our general, and more importantly, our friend,' the statement added

He believes she would have agreed to the digital rendering of her character if it honored the legacy of Leia and worked with the story.

Fisher had already approved a digital re-creation of young Leia's face onto a younger actress in the 2016 prequel Rogue One.

While there is no CGI digital work on most of her scenes in The Rise of Skywalker, using footage shot in The Force Awakens, but there is a flashback to a younger Leia's Jedi training under her brother, Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) that was done in the same way as the Rogue One scene.

Legacy: He believes she would have agreed to the digital rendering of her character if it honored the legacy of Leia and worked with the story

Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker opened to $175.5 million in its opening weekend, which is one of the biggest debuts of the year.

Still, it was the lowest opening weekend of the new trilogy, behind Star Wars: The Force Awakens' then-record $247.9 million and Star Wars: The Last Jedi's $220 million.

The Rise of Skywalker earned another $198 million from international territories for a worldwide debut of $373.5 million.