Joshua Jackson and Jodie Turner-Smith secretly tied the knot and are a married couple, according to US Weekly.

In addition to their newlywed status, the publication reported that the pair will soon become parents as Jodie 'is pregnant' with their first child.

In August, Joshua and Jodie appeared to be picking up a marriage license at the Beverly Hills courthouse in August, which is only valid in the state of California for 90 days.

Newlyweds: Joshua Jackson and Jodie Turner-Smith secretly tied the knot and are a married couple, according to US Weekly; seen in November

Jodie and Joshua were most recently spotted at the airport in Berlin where she appeared to be showing off a growing baby bump.

Shortly before her bump debut, the couple were seen wearing wedding rings while stepping out in Germany.

The couple reportedly began dating last year when they were spotted hand-in-hand while strolling around Los Angeles after getting hot and heavy at Usher's 40th birthday party in October.

Jodie and Joshua recently made their red carpet debut at the premiere of her film, Queen & Slim, in Los Angeles.

Big year! In addition to their newlywed status, the publication reported that the pair will soon become parents as Jodie 'is pregnant' with their first child; the couple were spotted in Berlin last week with Jodie showing off what appeared to be a baby bump

Bling: Shortly before her bump debut, the couple were seen wearing wedding rings while stepping out in Germany

Sources reported that the former Dawson's Creek star is 'so supportive' of his lady love.

'Joshua looked so thrilled to be there to support [Jodie],' an insider said. 'He was all smiles and doting on her and her family all night. A total gentleman.'

Fans went wild with marriage rumors after Turner-Smith was spotted wearing a massive diamond ring on her finger, just months after she left a courthouse with her beau.

Love on the brain: In August, Joshua and Jodie appeared to be picking up a marriage license at the Beverly Hills courthouse in August, which is only valid in the state of California for 90 days

Sweethearts: Sources reported that the former Dawson's Creek star is 'so supportive' of his lady love; seen in June

The When They See Us actor is set to star alongside Reese Witherspoon and Kerry Washington in the Little Fires Everywhere mini series premiering on Hulu in 2020.

Joshua's romantic history includes his old Dawson's Creek co-star Katie Holmes, who went on to marry and divorce Tom Cruise.

He also spent a decade in a relationship with National Treasure icon Diane Kruger, lasting from 2006 until 2016.

Since the year she broke up with Joshua, Diane has been romancing The Walking Dead star Norman Reedus, with whom she shares an infant daughter.