Advertisement

A Lego-obsessed couple have spent six weeks and used a staggering 400,000 bricks to create a stunning Alpine ski scene in time for Christmas. Every year Mike Addis, 61, and his wife Catherine Weightman, 56, from Cambridgeshire in the UK, carefully construct a Christmas-themed Lego creation to celebrate the festive season. But this year - to mark the 25th anniversary of their first ever Christmas-themed creation - they decided to take on their biggest project yet.

The result is a stunning eight foot tall by eight foot wide snow-covered Alpine ski resort which takes up half of their living room. 'It's not necessarily the most complex one we've made but it's definitely the biggest. As we've been doing this so long, people have now come to know me as the Lego man,' Mr Addis said.

The mixture of a Swiss Mountain resort, a German Christmas market, and Father Christmas' workshop even comes complete with working lifts, trains and lights.

The massive sculpture also includes elves, a reindeer and sleigh, and lots of working street lights. But it was the onion dome on top of the church that was one of the hardest pieces to find, the couple said.

The incredible structure includes a German medieval town, various holiday chalets, Santa's house - and even a working train (pictured) that delivers right to Santa's workshop.

The couple have gone into intricate detail, even including some ice climbers among their design. Speaking of how they create their masterpieces, Mr Addis said they don't use any instructions but prefer to 'free-build' instead.

The husband and wife revealed they spent an average of four hours a day building the construction. 'It's hard to say exactly how many hours a day we've spent on it because some days I'll spend eight or ten hours, while other days I won't touch it at all. I'd say on average around four hours per day is fair,' said Mr Addis.

Speaking about his favorite part of the sculpture, Mr Addis said: 'Each time you look at it you notice something new. My favorite bit I think is the church - it worked really well. The town center is also a firm favorite.'

The couple started out with just a small snowman back in 1995, but their creations have quickly become larger and larger over the years - and their Lego collection is now so big they have to store it in the cellar.

Each year they begin building their festive Lego construction on Mr Addis' birthday October 13 and aim to have it finished by December 1. They even invite friends over to help kick it off and turn it into a birthday party for Mike. Here the couple are with their Lego Christmas cake 2015. They also had a slightly more edible version that year...

Mike putting the final bricks on his Lego Durham Cathedral in 2014 - but he revealed things sometimes don't go quite to plan. 'The models are enjoyable but it also takes a lot of patience and can be quite frustrating sometimes. On one occasion during this build I tripped and smashed one the supports so we had to start that all over again. But the beauty of Lego is that it it can be rebuilt, even if it can be annoying at times.'

Catherine and Mike with their 14-year-old Chris and their giant Lego Olympic mascot Wenlock which they made in 2012 to celebrate the London Olympics.

Here's a Lego Dalek the couple created back in 2011. But this year was extra special for the couple as not only was it their 25th anniversary of building their Christmas Lego projects, but their daughter, Holly Addis, who lives in Wales, was able to help them too.

The couple's son Christopher with the giant Christmas stocking the couple made for Christmas 2010. They also decorated it with a number of Lego Christmas presents.

Catherine with their impressive Lego angel for Christmas 2006. Her husband Mike said: We always start constructing our projects on my birthday, and we aim to finish it by December 1st. However because this year I'm retired, we finished a little bit earlier on November 25th.'

The couple's children Thomas with his brother Christopher and sister Holly with the Lego nutcracker the family created for Christmas 2005.

The Addis kids with a Lego replica of their Cambridgeshire home for Christmas 2004. The family have collected Lego for over 50 years and have now amassed so much they need to store it in their cellar.

Thomas Addis, aged eight, Christopher Addis, aged two, and Holly Addis aged five with a Lego recreation of the three kings for Christmas 1999.

In 1996 the couple made a Santa sleigh. Previous festive Lego projects have included, a life-size polar bear that was 8ft (2.5m) tall, Durham Cathedral, a ginger-bread house, choir boys, Father Christmas, and even their own house.