A woman was shot by Alabama officers who mistakenly entered a home trying to arrest a wanted man who was already in jail.

Ann Rylee, 19, who now lives at the home on Old Moffat Road with her fiance, was shot several times when officers went inside the property. She underwent surgery at a nearby hospital but is expected to recover.

It is understood they were looking for an uncle of her fiance, Nicholas McLeod, who used to live there as the house belongs to McLeod's grandmother.

Mobile County Sheriff Sam Cochran claims that Rylee had a shotgun in her hand and pointed it at officers.

Ann Rylee, 19, (pictured), was shot by Alabama officers who mistakenly entered a home trying to arrest a wanted man who was already in jail

Police had been looking for wanted man Nicholas McLeod, (pictured), who had lived in the same house as the injured woman. She was the fiance of Nicholas' nephew Christopher

Cochran told WALA-TV that officers subsequently shot her, saying d a 'miscommunication' led to officers being at the home in the first place.

He added: 'The entry team was giving her orders, "Drop the gun, put the gun down, drop the gun," several times over a period of a few seconds.

'She pointed the gun at one of them and two or three agents fired upon her.'

Mobile County sheriff's deputies joined federal officers at a home in the Wilmer community looking for Nicholas McLeod, who used to live there.

Jail records show that he was actually arrested a day earlier on charges including possession of drug paraphernalia and evidence tampering.

Sheriff Cochran added : 'We do know that there is a miscommunication in this situation. We don't know the exact cause. We have narrowed it down to one of two things.'

He said one theory as to what occurred could be that law enforcement did not make a final check before officers were sent to the home to arrest McLeod.

He claimed another reason could have been an issue with a computer system which did not stipulate that the warrants were no longer active.

Christopher McLeod, who is Ann's fiance, claimed officers were at the house searching for his uncle who used to live there and who had been arrested one day previously

Christopher McLeod said he was outside the house emptying the trash with a friend before work when he was ordered to lie on the ground with his face down by officers

He added: 'If she would not have pointed a gun at the agents they would have determined all that on the scene and would have bid her a good day and thank you very much.'

Christopher McLeod, who is Rylee's fiance and Nicholas McLeod's nephew, was outside the house emptying the trash with a friend before work.

He claimed multiple officers armed with rifles and wearing body armor pulled up in vehicles and demanded that they put up their hands.

'They were looking for someone who used to live at that house years ago. He was my uncle,' McLeod said.

McLeod said he told them Rylee, his fiancée, was inside the house asleep in a recliner in the living room, where they kept a shotgun for protection.

Two federal marshals who had approached the home started yelling 'gun' and fired multiple times, he said.

'They had us face down in the dirt outside the whole time this was going on,' McLeod said. McLeod said Rylee was shot multiple times and underwent surgery.

'I just hope she's OK. That's my No. 1,' McLeod said. 'It's just so unfortunate because none of this needed to happen, it had nothing to do with us. We're just victims of an unfortunate situation.

'I've been told that she is doing better, she had multiple gunshot wounds and her liver got grazed and that was there number one concern.

He said: 'My grandmother owns the house but she is nice enough to let us stay there.'