The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have shared a series of throwback pictures to December 2018, leaving fans begging to see a glimpse of their offical Christmas card.

Prince Harry, 35, and Meghan Markle, 38, took to their Sussex Royal Instagram account today to post pictures from their visit to Brinsworth House, a residential and nursing care home in Twickenham last year, to highlight work by the Royal Variety Charity.

They added some snaps from their attendance at the Royal Variety performance, which is held in aid of the Royal Variety Charity, one of which saw Meghan chatting to Gary Barlow and Howard Donald.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex have shared a series of throwback pictures to December 2018, one of which saw Meghan chatting to Gary Barlow and Howard Donald (above), leaving fans begging to see a glimpse of their offical Christmas card

Their caption reads: 'Today we look back to Christmas 2018, and The Duchess of Sussex's visit to Brinsworth House, a residential and nursing care home in Twickenham, owned and run by the Royal Variety Charity.'

Their caption reads: 'Today we look back to Christmas 2018, and The Duchess of Sussex's visit to Brinsworth House, a residential and nursing care home in Twickenham, owned and run by the Royal Variety Charity.

'Each year, the UK’s much beloved Royal Variety performance is held in aid of the Royal Variety Charity of which Her Majesty The Queen is Patron. Funds raised from the show and throughout the year, help entertainers from around the UK who need support and assistance as a result of old age, ill-health, or hard times.

'At Brinsworth House, The Duchess joined residents singing carols and making Christmas decorations, as she unveiled a traditional 'Royal plaque' which is proudly displayed on the entrance hall wall, not far from one marking the 1976 visit of Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother.

A picture shows Meghan's visit to Brinsworth House, a residential and nursing care home in Twickenham last year, to highlight work by the Royal Variety Charity

One fan wrote: 'Almost had a heart attack! Post the card please'

Another added: 'We need the christmas card please', while one asked: 'Where’s ur xmas card? '(sic).

'Last Christmas, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex attended their first joint Royal Variety performance at the iconic London Palladium. Since HRH’s visit, the Royal Variety Charity has completely refurbished Brinsworth House’s kitchen and dining room, enabling residents to feel even more at home, in their new home.'

The pictures quickly racked up 40,000 likes, with fans flooding to the comments section to question when their official Christmas card was being released.

One fan wrote: 'Almost had a heart attack! Post the card please.'

A picture shows Meghan's visit to Brinsworth House, a residential and nursing care home in Twickenham last year, to highlight work by the Royal Variety Charity

Elsewhere Prince Harry is seen on stage at the Royal Variety Performance at the London Palladium in central London

Another added: 'We need the christmas card please', while one asked: 'Where’s ur xmas card? '(sic).

Elsewhere one joked: 'When is the Christmas card getting released? This is torture'.

The Duke and Duchess of Cornwall released their official card today, choosing a picture from their trip to Cuba in March, while a fan shared a snap of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's card yesterday.

Twitter account AComdtAC shared the first look at the Cambridge's 2019 Christmas Card. The adorable photograph shows Kate Middleton and Prince William posing on a vintage motorbike with Louis as George and Charlotte perched on the sidecar (pictured)

The Duke and Duchess of Cornwall have released their official 2019 Christmas card, choosing a picture of their visit to Cuba in March