He's made a name for himself in Hollywood as an actor and director.

And Joel Edgerton attempted to go under the radar in a blue cap and black sunglasses, as he landed in Sydney on Monday in time for Christmas.

The Australian star, 45, did not have an entourage in tow, opting to wheel several large suitcases out of the airport terminal.

Home for the holidays! Joel Edgerton, 45, (pictured) attempted to go under the radar in a cap and sunglasses, as he landed at Sydney Airport on Monday with large suitcases in tow

Joel kept casual in a white T-shirt, a light blue denim button-up, navy trousers and tan Under Armour boots.

The Boy Erased director and star showed off a significant amount of facial hair, and flashed the peace sign for the camera.

Joel came prepared for the trip, wheeling several large suitcases on a trolley.

Attire: The Australian actor, who now spends the majority of his time in Hollywood, cut a casual figure in a white T-shirt, a light blue denim button-up, navy pants and tan boots

Rugged: Joel showed off a significant amount of facial hair, and went without an entourage

Girlfriend: It's assumed Joel will celebrate the holidays with his girlfriend, Vogue Australia fashion director Christine Centenera

It's assumed Joel will celebrate the holidays with his girlfriend, Vogue Australia fashion director Christine Centenera.

The couple have been dating since last year after meeting through mutual friends.

They first sparked romance rumours when they were pictured hugging in Sydney in 2018.

Mutual pals: The couple have been dating since last year after meeting through mutual friends

Rumour mill: They first sparked romance rumours when they were pictured hugging in Sydney in 2018

Soon after, the pair were spotted having dinner together in London.

In mid-February this year, Joel stepped out to support Christine at her Wardrobe.NYC concept store opening in the Big Apple.

Joel is most known for roles in films such as The Great Gatsby and Warrior, and made his directorial debut in 2015's The Gift.