Mesut Ozil has sent out a personal welcome to returning Arsenal icon Mikel Arteta, after he was announced as new Gunners manager to replace Unai Emery.

Arteta makes his comeback to the Emirates after leaving the club in 2016, returning to north London to make his first venture into senior management after earning his stripes under Pep Guardiola at Manchester City.

Ozil, who found himself hugely out of favour under previous boss Emery, wasted little time in taking to social media to welcome back his friend and celebrate the moment.

Mesut Ozil very publicly fell out with former boss Unai Emery and struggled for game time

'Welcome back to the Arsenal family @m8arteta,' Ozil wrote on Twitter, while attaching an image of himself and Arteta from their Arsenal days together.

Ozil and Arteta spent three years together with the Gunners, after the German playmaker arrived from Real Madrid under Arsene Wenger.

Ozil knows Mikel Arteta well from their three years playing together at Arsenal

Arteta has signed a three-and-a-half year deal to return to the Emirates in the dug-out

After quitting as Guardiola's assistant at City, Arteta returned back to the familiar Arsenal boardrooms to pen a three-and-a-half year contract as boss.

Arteta said in a statement: 'This is a huge honour. Arsenal is one of the biggest clubs in the world.

'We need to be competing for the top trophies in the game and that’s been made very clear to me in my discussions with Stan and Josh Kroenke, and the senior people from the club.

'We all know there is a lot of work to be done to achieve that but I am confident we’ll do it.

The pair are used to winning together, having lifted the FA Cup at Wembley in summer 2014

'I’m realistic enough to know it won’t happen overnight but the current squad has plenty of talent and there is a great pipeline of young players coming through from the academy.'

Arsenal confirmed in their statement that Arteta's support staff will be confirmed 'as soon as possible', while temporary boss Freddie Ljungberg's future remains unclear for now.