Richard E. Grant left the Loose Women panel in hysterics when he perfectly mimicked Stacey Solomon's accent during an appearance on the show on Friday.

The Hollywood actor, 62, was initially wary about doing an impression of the TV personality, 30, blushing as he said: 'I can't do it. I'm too ashamed and embarrassed.'

After a little encouragement and Stacey joking 'this is making my Christmas right now', the screen star repeated the line back with a Dagenham twang.

Funny man: Richard E. Grant left the Loose Women panel in hysterics when he perfectly mimicked Stacey Solomon's accent during an appearance on the show on Friday

Richard joined in the laughter after his hilarious one-liner and then pulled a cracker with his giggling pal Stacey, who declared 'I love you, Richard'.

While on the show, the actor discussed his role as General Pryde in Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker, revealing the cast were sworn to secrecy.

He said: 'You weren't even allowed to read the script, you couldn't take it away it was in a room, there were security cameras, you had to read it and leave.

'On the day you got some pages and they said you have to learn that in the morning, you had to sign it in and sign out, and there was a sign saying if you take these pages away you won't get away with it.

Entertained: The Hollywood actor, 62, was initially wary about doing an impression of the TV personality, 30, blushing as he said: ' I can't do it. I'm too ashamed and embarrassed'

'I didn't even tell my wife and daughter my character's name until it was revealed in Variety [magazine], I was so scared of getting fired.'

Richard also said he was stunned to win the role and looked to a previous Star Wars actor for inspiration.

He said: 'I don’t know who turned it down. Peter Cushing played a bad guy in the first movies and I thought maybe that's someone to try and channel and follow in the footsteps of. He was my inspiration but I have no idea how I got it.'

Richard's next role is in the film version of hit stage show Everybody's Talking About Jamie.

Having a laugh: After a little encouragement and Stacey joking 'this is making my Christmas right now', the screen star repeated the line back with a Dagenham twang

In demand: The actor spoke about his role as General Pryde in Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker on the show and also about playing a drag queen in film Everybody's Talking About Jamie

Larking around: Stacey and Richard appeared to be getting along with them both laughing about his take on her accent

He said: 'I'm playing an old drag queen. I'm in full drag in that with a hefty double D bust... The agony of Jimmy Choo shoes my feet were numb.'

Richard also spoke about his love for singing sensation Barbra Streisand, who he wrote too when he was 14.

Speaking about meeting his idol, Richard said: 'I've had a 50 year devotion to Barbra.

'I had one day off and I drove to Malibu, where she lives, with my wife during the Oscar publicity season, and I said "I'm going to stand outside this gate", she said, "This isn't Barbara's house, if it is I'm not coming out".

'I went to the gate and someone came out and asked me what I was doing and I asked if I could take a photo outside Barbra's house and they said, "Thank you for asking".'

Happy days: In February, Richard, who has had a '50 year devotion' to Barbra Streisand, met his idol and shared a selfie of them on social media

When asked if Barbra lived up to his expectations, the star joked: 'Yes and more! My wife has understood if Barbra said right come, I'd be there.'

In January, Richard was left in tears after Barbra tweeted a response to a fan letter he wrote her when he was 14 - a staggering 47 years after he mailed it.

Barbra wrote on Twitter: 'Dear Richard What a wonderful letter you wrote me when u were 14 ! and look at u now! You're terrific in your latest movie with Melissa congratulations and love Barbra.' (sic)

In February, he finally got to meet his hero and shared a snap of them together on social media.