Between her flashy ensembles and bold personality, it's hard for Cardi B to blend into a crowd, anywhere.

But that's exactly what happened, at least for a short time, when the hip-hop superstar got in some holiday shopping at Aventura Mall in Miami on Sunday.

Things were low-key when she first arrived, make-up free, and with her hair covered up in a simple head-wrap.

Low-key: Cardi B looked almost unrecognizable when she went make-up free and her hair in a head-wrap while shopping at Aventura Mall in Miami on Sunday

Despite not wanting to draw any undo attention to herself, The Bodak Yellow rapper showed off her curves, and part of the huge tattoo along the right side of her derriere and leg, in a form-fitting blue mini-dress.

She also donned a pair of black strapped sandals for her afternoon excursion.

Keeping her anonymity in such a public place was hard, in part, because she had three big security guards by her side as a precaution.

Cardi B, is that you? The Bodak Yellow rapper, 27, sported a pared-back look that was a stark contrast to her usual heavily made-up appearance (pictured, right, on December 14)

Curvy: The musician showed off her curves, and part of the huge tattoo along her legs and derriere, in a form-fitting blue mini-dress

Cardi made several stops at stores such as Louis Vuitton, Ferrari, Foot Locker, Gucci, a baby clothing store and a bakery.

Eventually word spread of her appearance at the mall and crowds began to gather for chance to get a look at one of the most famous female artists right now.

While shopping, the rapper could also be seen talking on her cell phone as fans started hovering nearby.

Gawkers gather: Eventually word spread and crowds began to gather around Cardi

The shopping spree came just hours after Cardi shared some behind-the-scenes footage of her very first Vogue cover with one-year-old daughter Kulture.

In the caption, she called it her 'hardest shoot to do ever', because of Kulture's dirty dress and persistent straight face.

For the shoot, the Grammy-winning artist sported a red mid-length dress with small white polka dots on it as her daughter sat in between her legs in a similar-colored dress, and her hair in little braids.