Advertisement

Party-goers have turned out in their best attire to celebrate the final few days before Christmas.

Seeing in the holiday season in style, revellers took to the streets of Fortitude Valley in Brisbane dressed in an array of quirky Christmas get-ups as the final full work week ahead of Christmas Day came to a close.

Those living it up in Sydney on Friday night were less festive in their choice of attire, but held their own in the glamour stakes as they let their hair down long into the night.

One reveller wore a yellow wide-brimmed hat as she ran though the streets, while another in peach-coloured pants and high-heels held a cigarette as she spoke on the phone.

A festively-themed partygoer in Brisbane was among the crowds of people to take to the streets of Australian cities to welcome in the holiday season on Friday night

Bizarrely, one woman in Sydney was lifted and held up against a pole by her male companion as he hoisted her over his shoulders in a fireman lift

A group of three blonde-haired women in Sydney meanwhile posed for a selfie together as they welcomed in the holiday period

In Sydney, the evening's festivities seemed too much for one woman who lay perched on top of a low brick wall with her handbag falling to the side

A group of three blonde-haired women meanwhile posed for a selfie as they welcomed in the holiday period.

Bizarrely, one woman was lifted and held up against a pole by her male companion as he hoisted her over his shoulders in a fireman lift.

In Brisbane, a festively-dressed female bar-goer ran jubilantly down the street with what appeared to be a bag of fast food in hand.

Another creatively combined both green and red stockings to create the perfect Santa's elf look.

A topless man wearing a Santa beard also strolled through the inner city suburb's main entertainment precinct with a glamorous brunette companion under his arm.

The friend herself was dressed in season - sporting a burgundy and white dress and bright red lipstick.

A group of three friends posed together on Friday night to celebrate the occasion as one of them stood on top of a bollard

A topless man wearing a Santa beard strolled through the inner city suburb's main entertainment precinct with a glamorous brunette companion under his arm

One black-haired woman in a gothic-themed outfit chose her own theme of attire - complete with nose and lip piercings

Another pair of women sheltered on the pavement under an umbrella and appeared to have co-ordinated their outfits by wearing matching dresses

A young female party-goer in a red crop top eagerly ran across the road as she let her hair down in Sydney on Friday evening

This young man was taken by police in handcuffs from Brisbane's Brunswick St Mall in Fortitude Valley just before 2am

Queensland police restrained this young man in Fortitude Valley near the Brunswick St Mall just before 2am

This young man with a plaster cast was taken away by Queensland police just before 2am in Fortitude Valley, Brisbane

One male reveller mixed together two different costumes as he wore Christmas-themed wrapping paper over his upper body and reindeer ears around his head.

Another pair of women sheltered on the pavement under an umbrella and appeared to have co-ordinated their outfits by wearing matching dresses.

Others were less willing to play dress-up despite the proximity to Christmas, but a group of young women caught the eye in an elegant combination of outfits.

One of them dazzled in a floral low-cut jumpsuit, while two others wore slimming black ensembles to show off their figures.

Another woman let her hair down in Brisbane's Fortitude Valley by creatively combined both green and red stockings to create the perfect Santa's elf look

Another group of three donned an eclectic set of outfits, with one wearing thigh-high boots, white stockings, tight-fitting shorts and a sheer crop top

Others were less willing to play dress-up despite the proximity to Christmas, but a group of young women caught the eye in an elegant combination of outfits

Revellers have been seen letting their hair down at the end of the year in the streets of Sydney - with this group posing together in Bondi Junction

One glamorous blonde-haired reveller wore a yellow wide-brimmed hat as she ran though the streets in a black dress in Sydney, while another in peach-coloured pants and high-heels held a cigarette as she spoke on the phone

The night was not all fun and games though for one bargoer, who seemed to have a tense confrontation with a much bigger man who appeared to be a bouncer

Another group of three donned an eclectic set of outfits, with one wearing thigh-high boots, white stockings, tight-fitting shorts and a sheer crop top.

The night was not all fun and games though for one bargoer, who seemed to have a tense confrontation with a much bigger man who appeared to be a bouncer.

And in Sydney, the evening's festivities seemed too much for one woman who lay perched on top of a low brick wall with her handbag falling to the side.

Another young woman seemed upset as she teared up while speaking on the phone.