Jessica Biel isn't quite over husband Justin Timberlake's dalliance with castmate Alisha Wainwright.

While the couple is 'focused on mending any issues,' the actress is still 'very hurt and upset with Justin,' an insider told Us Weekly.

'She hasn’t fully forgiven him and isn’t letting him off easy,' the source went on.

Still getting over it: Jessica Biel (above September) is still 'hurt' about Justin Timberlake's cozy incident with his castmate Alisha Wainwright and reportedly hasn't 'fully forgiven' him for the incident

Last month Justin was seen getting extremely close with his Palmer castmate Alisha Wainwright during a night out in New Orleans. During the outing they were seen holding hands and Timberlake was seen resting his hand on her knee.

Though Jessica is still hurt, the couple knows they must come together as there is much 'work required' to 'get back to a good place as a couple.'

After the incident Justin posted a public apology, saying he made a 'strong lapse in judgement' while under the influence of alcohol.

He said in a statement posted to on social media: 'I stay away from gossip as much as I can, but for my family I feel it is important to address recent rumors that are hurting the people that I love.

'A few weeks ago I displayed a strong lapse in judgement - but let me be clear - nothing happened between me and my co-star. I drank way too much that night and I regret my behavior. I should have known better.

Make it right: 'She hasn’t fully forgiven him and isn’t letting him off easy,' the source went on about Justin, seen June 13 above

Upsetting: Justin took to Instagram to share his public apology for wife Jessica, and branded his behaviour a 'lapse in judgement'

Drama: It has been reported that Jessica was 'embarrassed' by Justin's behavior which caused him to issue the apology (pictured together in October)

'This is not the example I want to set for my son. I apologies to my amazing wife and family for putting them through such an embarrassing situation, and I am focused on being the best husband and father I can be. This was not that.'

Justin ended his statement by stressing he is still happy to be working on Palmer.

He wrote: 'I am incredibly proud to be working on Palmer. Looking forward to continuing to make this movie and excited for people to see it.'

Jessica's 'embarrassment' is said to have prompted the apology.

What? The actor was seen looking cosy with his Palmer co-star Alisha Wainwright (pictured in September) on a night out together last month

The star reportedly 'encouraged Justin to put out his statement on Instagram because she felt embarrassed by his actions and wanted him to take accountability,' according to an insider who spoke to Us Magazine last week.

A source told People magazine that Jessica believes nothing happened between them, adding: 'He's charming and outgoing. And obviously he drank too much this time, but Jessica believes he didn't cheat on her. She will stand by him.

'They will work through this. It was good that he apologised publicly but obviously the real work he is doing is in private and hopefully this was just a bad drunken night of this type of behaviour.'

Justin seems to be trying his hardest to show Jessica love and attention.

Sweet: Justin Timberlake was sharing his love for wife Jessica Biel on Tuesday, as she shared a post of her amazing physique in tight pink sportswear

On Tuesday Justin lavished his wife in love on Instagram, posting a gushing comment under her latest Instagram.

The actress displayed her incredible physique in tight pink sportswear to promote her new festive gift edit, and as the comments began to flood in, her husband shared his love with a trio of emojis.

In her post, Jessica looked sensational as she showed off her toned physique in a tight pink vest and matching leggings.

The star posed on a fitness ball to promote her new festive gift guide, the flashed her beaming smile as the camera flashed in the boomerang post.

Among a sea of comments from thrilled fans was one from Justin, which featured a two love hearts along with a 'love heart eyes' emoji.