Trinidad-focused oil and gas explorer Touchstone got an early Christmas present this week as gas flows from a new onshore well 'greatly exceeded' its expectations.

The flow rate of the Coho-1 well was 46 million cubic feet of gas per day, the equivalent of 7,671 barrels of oil, though initial production rates are expected to be 'choked back' to 10-12million cubic feet per day, or between 1,667-2000 barrels of oil equivalent.

Touchstone says Coho-1 will 'materially contribute' to its near-term growth, with CEO Paul Baay estimating that the well will add 50 per cent to the company's production base once it is up and running.

Touchstone shares jumped 40 per cent higher in the week to 19p after gas discovery

Analysts at the firm's house broker Shore Capital are similarly upbeat, predicting 'significant production growth next year'.

The bumper results sent the shares gushing 40 per cent higher in the week to 19p.

The AIM All-Share was up 2.5 per cent at 941 over the same period, while the FTSE 100 was 3.1 per cent higher at 7,584.

A fellow oiler on the rise this week was Prospex, which flowed 23 per cent higher to 0.1p after agreeing to acquire a 49.9 per cent stake in the El Romeral gas power station in southern Spain.

El Romeral consists of an 8.1 megawatt power station as well as three wells supplying gas to the plant.

Miner Sunrise Resources was brighter as it secured water rights for its CS Pozzolan-Perlite project in Nevada, sending shares up 13 per cent to 0.1p.

Plans to float on the US 'venture market' OTCQB sent shares in polymer specialist Itaconix surging 14 per cent to 1.7p in the week.

The company said the move will simplify the trading process for potential US investors, enabling them to trade shares in US dollars in their time zones.

Expectations of higher than expected turnover for its full year sent shares in RA International up 4 per cent to 40p.

The company, which provides services to remote locations in Africa and the Middle East, also said it had been awarded the second phase of a $10.9million contract to help construct a US embassy in East Africa.

Elsewhere, it was a blockbuster return from suspension for Alexander Mining, which rocketed 81 per cent to 0.05p after revealing details of its proposed £6.6million reverse takeover by eLight, a company that provides commercial customers with immediate energy and cost reductions with zero upfront investment.

Among the fallers, recruiter Staffline plunged 18 per cent to 90p following the sudden departure of its chief executive, Mike Watts, with the company providing no reason for the abrupt exit.

Recruiter Staffline plunged 18 per cent to 90p following the sudden departure of its chief executive, Mike Watts, with the company providing no reason for the abrupt exit

Biotech Silence Therapeutics also saw the departure of its CEO, David Horn Solomon, sending the shares down 17 per cent to 438p.

In a separate announcement, Silence said a bankruptcy motion had been filed in Denmark against Horn Solomon arising from his time as managing partner of Sund Capital from 2016 to 2018, although stressed that it was a personal matter and 'entirely unrelated' to the company.

Political uncertainty in the UK forced a profit warning from mobile computing specialist Touchstar, which tumbled 11 per cent to 32p after its said full year revenues are set to be at the lower end of expectations at £7million as clients delayed orders.

It was a similar excuse from industrial engineering firm 600 group, which sank 18 per cent to 16p as macro-economic and political uncertainty meant its order intake for the fourth quarter was well below predicted levels, and as a result, its results for the full year will be 'significantly below…previous expectations'.

Meanwhile, software firm Techfinancials declined 6 per cent to 0.8p as it called shareholders to a meeting to discuss a delisting from the AIM market as it prepares to transfer to the NEX exchange to develop its new blockchain-based businesses.