Chloe Haworth, 24, was at home in Burnley with her four-year-old son when she claims the dryer, which is not one of the appliances that has been recalled, began to smoke in the early hours of Saturday December 14

A young-mum had to rescue her toddler from her smoke-filled home after her Indesit tumble dryer caught fire.

Chloe Haworth, 24, was at home with her four-year-old son when she claims the dryer, which is not one of the appliances that has been recalled, began to smoke in the early hours of Saturday December 14.

The mum-of-one alleges she was awoken by her smoke alarm in the early hours of Saturday morning and that she had to scramble to her son's room to rescue him from the smoke.

Chloe says the tumble dryer was completely destroyed and that she's also been left with a painful throat after inhaling smoke during the incident at her home in Burnley, Lancashire.

She said: 'It was terrifying. I'm lucky to be alive.

'The scariest part was how quickly the smoke took hold of my chest and stung my eyes.

'I just keep running over it over and over again. Things could've been so much different.

The damage to the tumble dryer which was in Chloe Haworth's utility room

'I'm just glad everything damaged is replaceable although it's not ideal the week before Christmas. I've been lucky, I got away with just a lost voice from the smoke and a few nightmares.

'You just don't think of this happening in your own home.'

Whirlpool, the company which manufactures Hotpoint and Indesit washing machines and tumble dryers has issued a recall of 500,000 models of washing machine manufactured between 2014 and 2018.

The recall relates to a faulty door lock system that is a possible fire risk.

Chloe has owned her Indesit IDV75 tumble dryer - which is not one of the model's affected by the recall - for two years and uses it three times a week.

She said: 'I did my usual washing and drying that night.

The mum-of-one (pictured) alleges she was awoken by her smoke alarm in the early hours of Saturday morning and that she had to scramble to her son's room to rescue him from the smoke

'About 10.45pm I pulled my hoodie out of the dryer and left the door open. I locked the utility room, gave the dog some water and went to bed.

'Later, I woke up because the smoke alarm was going off. I was half asleep but went downstairs where there was a haze of white smoke.

'I thought maybe it could have been the heater in the kitchen. As I opened the door to the kitchen I was met with a wall of smoke.

'It wasn't the heater so the last place to check was the utility room. I opened the door and got knocked down by the smoke. You couldn't see anything at all.

'I was on the floor crawling out of the kitchen when my neighbour knocked on the front door. He took one look inside and shouted at me to get out.

Brave Chloe added that her street was full of white smoke in the hours after the blaze and that she's still feeling the effects of the fumes. She has been prescribed an inhaler, as has her son

'I called 999 and then grabbed a towel and crawled up the stairs to my son. I put a blanket over his head and face and slid down the stairs with him and went next door.'

Chloe says the firefighter's arrived promptly and pulled the dryer out into her garden.

Brave Chloe added that her street was full of white smoke in the hours after the blaze and that she's still feeling the effects of the fumes.

She said: 'Since that night my dog won't enter the utility. My son thankfully is unaware of what happened, he was just excited by the firemen.

'I've had to air out the entire house as it still smells of the smoke

'My chest hasn't been the same and both me and my son have been prescribed inhalers. My son hasn't been affected but because I was crawling through the smoke I have had a really bad chest and lost my voice through the coughing.

'I'm also quite scared of any electrics being on at night and any loud sudden noises. I just keep replaying the events in my head that I could have lost my son and dog.'

A spokesman for Lancashire Fire and Rescue Service confirmed that two fire engines were called to the incident and that firefighters were at the scene for 45 minutes.

Whirlpool has been approached for comment.