President Donald Trump said he will sign a massive $738 billion Defense bill Friday – touting such provisions as its 3.1 per cent military pay raise, paid leave for federal workers – and an increase in the 'smocking age.'

That provision, inserted by congressional negotiators, would raise the age for all tobacco purchases to 21. Some military members have complained that they can fight for the nation at age 18 but not buy tobacco products until later.

Trump corrected the spelling of his tweet after blasting it out, but not before being chided by critics including George Conway, the husband of counsel to the president Kellyanne Conway.

President Donald Trump will sign a $738 billion defense bill before heading to Mar-a-Lago Friday night

'I will be signing our 738 Billion Dollar Defense Spending Bill today. It will include 12 weeks Paid Parental Leave, gives our troops a raise, importantly creates the SPACE FORCE, SOUTHERN BORDER WALL FUNDING, repeals “Cadillac Tax” on Health Plans, raises smocking age to 21! BIG!' Trump tweeted early Friday.

The spelling error was enough to set off Conway, who tweeted: 'I agree with IMPOTUS @realDonaldTrump that people should not smock until age 21. #IMPOTUS,' touting his own pro-impeachment stance for the president, who is sometimes referred to as POTUS.

The bill provides a $22 billion increase in defense funding, while establishing the new 'Space Force' that Trump wanted. The head of that agency will report to the head of the Air Force but also serve among the Joint Chiefs of Staff.

President Trump touted the massive $738 billion defense bill he will sign, and said it would raise the 'smocking age' to 21

CLEAN UP DUTY: The president then put out a tweet with the corrected spelling

The massive bill includes 3.1 per cent pay raise for military members

It also raises the smoking age to 21

Funding for border barriers is flat, but negotiators dropped Democratic provisions that would prevent the administration from raiding funds from other areas

Trump was expected to sign the bill before heading to Mar-a-Lago for the holidays

The 3,488-page bill provides does not contain a prohibition on border wall funding. Republicans pushed to allow the administration to continue to be able to raid funds appropriated for other things as part of Trump's gambit to secure 'emergency' wall construction, but it was not included in a final deal.

The spending measure includes $1.4 billion for wall construction, the same as last year and short of the original Administration request for $8.6 billion – although without the restrictions on raiding other funds.

The compromise easily passed the House and Senate, although a faction of progressive lawmakers including Rep. Ro Khanna of California and Sen. Bernie Sanders blasted it.

"There is no pressing reason for Congress to shower Trump, his Saudi friends, and the Pentagon contractors of the military-industrial complex with this $738-billion taxpayer giveaway right now,' Sander said in a statement when negotiators reached a deal earlier this month. 'We owe it to the American people to go back to the drawing board. Congress must say no,' he said.

Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman James Inhofe of Oklahoma called the space force 'the president’s big deal,” saying he had 'some reluctance at first' in backing it, The Hill reported.

“It will help protect space and ensure America’s dominance in this warfighting domain for years to come,” Inhofe said. “China and Russia have their own space dominance ... and just the fact that we don’t have one is something that made people believe we didn’t have an interest in the Space Force.”