A 94-year-old pensioner was hit with a £100 parking fine just 52 seconds after he pulled over to ask for the best place to park his car.

Leslie Coleman, of Kirkby-in-Ashfield, is the latest victim of the parking fine at East Midlands Airport after arriving to pick up his son at 1pm on November 23.

He spent less than a minute outside the airport before driving off when he realised there were no spaces.

Leslie Coleman, of Kirkby-in-Ashfield, was fined £100 just 52 seconds after he pulled over to ask for the best place to park his car at East Midlands Airport

He turned right at the island in search of a space but had no luck and asked a parked white van, who advised him to 'go down to the island and use the Jury Inn hotel and park there'.

But days later, he was slapped with a £100 parking fine for their exchange, despite never parking up or picking up his son from that location.

His son, Philip Coleman, a bus driver, said: 'He has not been to the airport for 40 years and did not know where to park. He just stopped and asked. It is a total injustice.

'It is a total disgrace and made me so angry.'

The former miner and latest parking charge victim is 'disgusted' by the way he has been treated and his appeal against the fine was rejected.

His fine has now been cancelled with thanks to NottinghamshireLive.

Leslie, 94, was picking up his son Philip Coleman, 63, who was flying in from Alicante when he asked a van driver where to park. He was then hit with a ticket (pictured) and his appeal was rejected

The rejection of his father's appeal is 'daylight robbery' and a 'lot of money for anyone when it is an injustice'.

Mr Coleman is one of many people who has complained about the way parking fines have been handed out at the airport.

Ruth Pickering, of Clifton, Nottinghamshire, was handed a £60 penalty notice after her 22-year-old daughter loaded her suitcase into the boot of the car on June 30. It took six weeks for Ms Pickering to appeal the penalty notice.

Sharon and Geoffrey Palmer, both aged 69, were hit with a £60 fine for using the petrol station as a drop-off point.

East Midlands Airport said they are going to cancel his ticket which Leslie's son Philip called 'daylight robbery'. He is just one of many ticket victims at the airport, with Ruth Pickering, of Clifton, Nottinghamshire, being handed a £60 penalty notice after her 22-year-old daughter loaded her suitcase into the boot of the car on June 30

What are the parking rules at East Midlands Airport? The owners of the BP petrol station and East Midlands Airport said picking up or dropping off passengers at The Fuel Station is strongly prohibited Several warning signs have been up at the BP garage since June Parking or waiting on roads across the airport estate is also prohibited Double yellow lines on all roads at the airport have been replaced by red lines They are enforced by a third-party organisation that also has a separate agreement in place with the petrol station All drivers dropping off and collecting passengers at the airport must use designated car parks and drop-off facilities

Meanwhile Paul Hayes, 69, was handed a £100 fine after visiting East Midlands Airport's BP garage. His appeal was initially rejected and the charges later dropped, he alleged.

And now East Midlands Airport said as a gesture of goodwill they are going to cancel Mr Coleman's parking ticket.

A spokesman for the airport said people visiting the airport is of 'paramount importance' and 'controlling the traffic flow across the airport site is key to this'.

'Vehicles waiting in undesignated parking areas when dropping off and collecting passengers not only causes congestion, but is dangerous to both drivers and pedestrians.'

Red-routed roads are enforced and 'no stopping' signage is clearly visible to prevent these fines, the spokesman added.

Mr Coleman's fine has been cancelled while drivers dropping off and collecting passengers at EMA are advised to use the designated car parks and drop-off facilities.

'Ten minutes parking in rapid drop off costs £3, while 30 minutes in short stay 1 car park is £4. During the busier summer months (April to October), one hour's free parking can be had in Long Stay 2.'