Alasdair Murray, better known by his stage name Illy, has lashed out at Prime Minister Scott Morrison for his response to the bushfire crisis.

The 34-year-old Australian rap star took to Instagram on Friday to share a photo of the PM on holiday in Hawaii this week, alongside a scathing caption.

The hip-hop performer wrote: 'I know I know, more politics. But f**k me dead, this is meant to be THE LEADER OF OUR COUNTRY.

'People are dying and this guy is throwing shakas in Hawaii!' Rapper Illy (pictured) slammed PM Scott Morrison for holidaying during bushfire crisis in an Instagram post Friday

'Australia's on fire, people are dying and losing their homes, firefighters are deeply under resourced and spending THEIR Christmas period defending others, and this fkn guy is throwing shakas in Hawaii.'

The two-time ARIA Award winner concluded in his post: 'Does this look like leadership to you?!'

Earlier, the PM defended jetting off to Hawaii for a family holiday at the height of the bushfire crisis, pointing out he doesn't 'hold a hose' like firefighters.

Not happy! The 34-year-old Australian rap star shared a photo of the PM on holiday in Hawaii this week (pictured), alongside a scathing caption

The rapper wrote: 'Australia's on fire, people are dying and losing their homes, firefighters are deeply under resourced and spending THEIR Christmas period defending others, and this fkn guy is throwing shakas in Hawaii'

The Australian Prime Minister further angered voters in a radio interview on Friday as he apologised for 'any offence caused' by his decision to go on holiday to the idyllic American island with his wife and two daughters.

'It's not easy to get back, but I will as soon as I can,' Mr Morrison told 2GB radio.

'I know Australians will understand this, and they'll be pleased I'm coming back... but they know that, you know, I don't hold a hose mate.'

The two-time ARIA Award winner concluded in his post: 'Does this look like leadership to you?!'

His latest controversial remarks come after an online petition calling on the Governor General to remove him as Prime Minister received more than 70,000 signatures.

Illy's most recent album Two Degrees was released in 2016 debuted at number one on the ARIA charts.

It was nominated for six ARIA Awards including Best Male Artist and Album Of The Year.