Henry Cavill has revealed he 'begged' to do a high altitude jump in Mission Impossible, but Tom Cruise said he could 'kill everyone' if something went wrong.

The Man Of Steel star, 36, was working with the Hollywood legend, 57, on Mission: Impossible - Fallout last year when he asked to do the hair raising stunt.

But Tom, who always completes his own daredevil stunts, forbade Henry from doing the jump because the professionals wouldn't be able to safely manage two actors at once.

'If something goes wrong you'll kill everyone': Henry Cavill told Graham Norton he 'begged' to do a high altitude jump during filming for Mission Impossible but Tom Cruise said no

Henry told Graham Norton: 'I begged to do it, but Tom said, "We would love you to do it, but I am up here with the professionals and if I get anything even slightly wrong, they can correct it.

'"If there are two of us up there and something goes wrong, you'll kill everyone!" And I was like, "okay!"'

The actor, who was able to perform all his own stunts in Netflix series The Witcher, said 'if there was an emotional scene I wouldn't ask another actor to cry for me'.

Stunts: The Man of Steel star, 36, was working with the Hollywood legend, 57, (right) on Mission: Impossible - Fallout last year when he asked to do the hair raising stunt

He added: 'For me, it is really important that the character exists in the action, so if I am going to take on a role like The Witcher I am going to make sure I can do all the stuff he can do.'

Even Matt Damon has previously admitted Tom is 'the best' at doing his own stunts in his films.

Following a conversation between the pair about doing their own stunts on screen, Damon told Cruise, 'I’m tapping out, you win, you are the best'.

Revelations: Tom, who always completes his own stunts, wouldn't let Henry do the jump because he claimed the professionals wouldn't be able to safely manage two actors at once

The Oscar-winning co-writer of Good Will Hunting told talk show host Conan O'Brien he spoke to Tom about how he ran down the side of a skyscraper in the 2011 film Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol.

'I had dinner with Tom Cruise years ago,' Matt said. 'I kinda cornered him and I said, "Hey, tell me about this [a stunt he did], like I’m afraid of heights. How did you do this thing?”'

'And he goes, "Oh, you know … I’ve been dreaming of this shot for fifteen years, this sequence, and finally I had a chance to do it."’

All-star: Also on the show was Gavin and Stacey's Ruth Jones (centre) and Rob Brydon, (second from right) Star Wars' Daisy Ridley (left) and singer songwriter Robbie Williams (right)

And I go, "So how did it come to pass?" And he goes, "OK, so I go to the safety guy … the safety guy says, "You can’t do that. That’s too dangerous."'

'And [Tom] goes… "So I get another safety guy.”'

'And I looked at him and I’m like, "I’m tapping out, you win, you are the best."’

Earlier in the interview, Damon had conceded he had become 'afraid of heights' when he looked over the edge of a building in Dubai.

'I begged to do it': Henry told Graham Norton: 'I begged to do it, but Tom said, "We would love you to do it, but I am up here with the professionals and if I get anything even slightly wrong, they can correct it"'

Matt said he would have been unable to perform the same stunt as Cruise, which involved the star of The Mummy running at full speed down the side of a building while holding onto a rope.

'My reaction is, "Too bad we can’t do that sequence, it would have been really cool." His reaction is, "No, we’re getting another safety guy."’

The Witcher is an eight-episode adaptation of the bestselling medieval book series by Polish author Andrzej Sapkowski.

Action: The actor, who was able to perform all his own stunts in Netflix series The Witcher (pictured), said 'if there was an emotional scene I wouldn't ask another actor to cry for me'

It centres on protagonist Geralt of Rivia, a monster hunter known as a Witcher who travels the countryside slaying terrifying beasts - played by Henry.

Also on The Graham Norton show was Gavin and Stacey's Ruth Jones and Rob Brydon, Star Wars' Daisy Ridley and singer Robbie Williams.

The Graham Norton Show will be on BBC One on Friday, December 20 at 10.35pm.