A former security guard from New Jersey has been found guilty to raping and murdering three young women and attempting to kill a fourth during a three-month crime spree.

An Essex County jury deliberated for just two hours on Thursday before convicting Khalil Wheeler-Weaver, 23, who now faces up to a life in prison plus 80 years.

Prosecutors said Wheeler-Weaver, of Orange, killed 20-year-old Sarah Butler, 33-year-old Joanne Brown and 19-year-old Robin West in 2016. They also accuse him of trying to kill another woman, identified in court documents only as T.T. who survived and testified against him at his trial.

Scroll down for video

Khalil Wheeler-Weaver (seen in court in October), 23, on Thursday was convicted of murder, desecrating human remains, kidnapping, aggravated sexual assault and aggravated arson in the killings of three women and the attempted killing of a fourth

Wheeler-Weaver’s killing spree is believed to have begun on August 31, 2016, when Robin West (left), a 19-year-old sex worker was last seen alive. His next victim was Joanne Brown, a 33-year-old sex worker living on the streets

Wheeler-Weaver's final victim was 20-year-old Sarah Butler, whom he solicited for sex and offered $500

Sarah Butler's father (pictured right on December 13, 2016) said after the guilty verdict that seeing justice being served has brought him so relief

Wheeler-Weaver was convicted of murder, desecrating human remains, kidnapping, aggravated sexual assault and aggravated arson.

Wheeler-Weaver's public defenders confirmed that their client had arranged sexual encounters with the women, who were all sex workers, but said he dropped them off safely at the end of each one and didn't harm anyone.

All three victims were black women who were involved in prostitution, and prosecutors said Wheeler-Weaver targeted them because he did not think anyone would miss them.

‘They were viewed as somehow less than human, less valuable,’ Essex County assistant prosecutor Adam Wells said in October, according to NJ.com

In each instance, Wheeler-Weaver arranged to meet a woman for sex, then wrapped her face in duct tape and strangled her with an item of clothing.

After hearing all 11 guilty verdicts, Wheeler-Weaver was led out of the courtroom in handcuffs. He will remain in custody pending his sentencing.

'I’m just glad that justice [was] served for my daughter,' victim Sarah Butler's father, Lavern Butler, told NorthJersey.com. 'It’s a long, long three years waiting and I’m finally getting some relief.'

Wheeler-Weaver was arrested in December 2016, after Sarah Butler's family helped police set up a sting operation by luring him with a promise of a sexual encounter

Butler described Wheeler-Weaver as a 'stone-cold killer' and said he was certain of his eventual conviction.

Wheeler-Weaver’s killing spree is believed to have begun on August 31, 2016, when Robin West, a 19-year-old sex worker was last seen alive.

West, a Philadelphia native who had recently moved to Union Township and struggled with mental health issues, was days away from celebrating her 20th birthday when she vanished - alarming family members when she failed respond to their messages days after.

Authorities received a call of a fire at an abandoned house in Orange, NJ, on September 1. It was inside that they found the 19-year-old’s badly scorched body, which took nearly two weeks to identify.

When quizzed by police, Wheeler-Weaver said he had taken the girl out to eat on the day of her disappearance, but claimed he’d dropped her off at a different abandoned house two blocks away from where her body was found.

While investigators puzzled over West’s death for weeks, another local young woman disappeared in the meantime.

Joanne Brown had been grappling with homelessness at the time she was last seen alive, climbing into Wheeler-Weaver’s car before being reported missing in October the same year.

Two months later, a work crew found the 33-year-old’s lifeless body inside yet another abandoned home in Orange.

Her nose and mouth were covered in duct tape, and she had been strangled to death with a jacket – which was still tied around her neck when she was found.

Days later, a terrified woman came forward to describe a traumatic encounter she’d just had with Wheeler-Weaver at a motel in Elizabeth. The unnamed woman, who at the time was 34, turned to sex work after becoming homeless.

Identified as T.T during the trial, the woman said she woke up in the back seat of her car with duct tape on her face and Wheeler-Weaver kneeling over her, clad in a ski mask, raping her and attempting to ‘choke her back to sleep’.

Eventually, T.T said she managed to remove the tape by ‘screaming and crying’. She convinced the defendant to take her back to the Ritz Motel in Elizabeth, where the pair initially met, under the ruse that she’d left her cell phone behind.

There, she raced into a room and locked the door behind her where she dialed 911 for help.

Still, months would pass before Wheeler-Weaver was arrested on attempted murder charges.

One week after T.T’s encounter, Wheeler-Weaver solicited Sarah Butler, a college student and lifeguard, for sex via the social media app Tagged, offering her $500 for her services.

‘Wow,’ she responded to Wheeler-Weaver on the app. ‘You’re not a serial killer, right?’

When the student failed to return home the next morning, her family called police.

Ten days later, Butler’s body was found in the Eagle Rock Reservation nature reserve covered by leaves and detritus. An autopsy would later show that she’d been strangled to death.

Another five days would pass before police brought Wheeler-Weaver into custody.

Prosecutors revealed that Butler’s parents, sister, and friends took matters into their own hands by logging into her social media accounts to see who she’d been talking to in the hours before her disappearance.

On the app Tagged – which is regularly linked to sex crimes – they found her exchange with Wheeler-Weaver.

Butler’s relatives then set up fake profiles on the site, promising to meet up with Wheeler-Weaver for sex. But when he arrived, he found himself face-to-face with police instead.

‘There are many courageous people in this case but we were particularly aided by the help of Sarah Butler’s family and friends who used her social media to help us in our investigation,’ Essex County Prosecutor's Office spokesperson Katherine Carter said.