Keira Maguire is bedridden after an extreme facial, she has revealed.

The 33-year-old took to Instagram on Friday and revealed she had undergone CO2RE laser treatment.

The former reality star shared a photo of the bottom half of her body laid up in bed and revealed in a caption that she is housebound due to the treatment.

The quest for perfect skin: Keira Maguire (pictured) revealed on Friday, via an Instagram post, that she's 'unable to leave the house' after undergoing an extreme laser facial

She wrote: 'Currently can't leave my house as I've had CO2RE laser on my face which is hectic'.

Answering a fan, she further explained: 'I noticed a major different in my scarring form 1 session, only with the CO2RE @candelamedicalanz. Other lasers not so much.

'This is my second session with this treatment and I can not wait to see the results. I'm hoping that I only need three sessions as it's 7-10 days down time. But it's worth the results.'

Stuck in bed: The former reality star shared a photo of the bottom half of her body laid up in bed and revealed in a caption that she is house bound due to the treatment

Answering a fan, she further explained: 'I can not wait to see the results. I'm hoping that I only need three sessions as it's 7-10 days down time. But it's worth the results'

Kieira also revealed in her post she had the treatment at Candela Medical Australia & NZ clinic.

It's unclear how much that particular clinic charges but the average cost per session for the CO2RE laser treatment is $750.

The treatment involves a laser removing layers of tissue in order to resurface the skin.

Stuck at home: Keira is laid up in her bedroom (pictured) after undergoing the $750 procedure. The treatment involves a laser removing layers of tissue to resurface the skin

New skin: The laser creates microscopic holes in the skin using a fractional carbon dioxide laser. It reduces the appearance of wrinkles, scarring, dull skin tone and thinning collagen

The laser creates microscopic holes in the skin using a fractional carbon dioxide laser.

The treatment reduces the appearance of wrinkles, scarring, dull skin tone and thinning collagen.

Most centres who offer the laser technology suggest that patients allow for between one week, to two weeks, of down time, after the treatment.

After the procedure, patients can expect to feel a sensation like sunburn, followed by swelling and peeling, and sun is best avoided.