Love Island narrator Iain Stirling has congratulated his girlfriend Laura Whitmore following the news that she is replacing Caroline Flack as host.

The Scottish comedian, 31, took to Instagram to share a sweet selfie with the Irish star, 34, that jokingly asked if 'she's single,' after it was announced that she would be standing in for Caroline, 40, for the upcoming winter series.

Iain went onto share a separate post saying that he was 'sad' that Caroline wouldn't be joining him in South Africa, he understood why she decided to step down following her arrest for assault.

Well done! Love Island narrator has congratulated his girlfriend Laura Whitmore following the news that she is replacing Caroline Flack as host with a cheeky Instagram post

Iain praised his girlfriend Laura for her new hosting gig by sharing a sweet selfie with her in front of a light sign with the words Choose Love.

He playfully captioned the snap: 'The new #LoveIsland host seems nice. I wonder if she’s single...'

Among the thousands of likes was one from her thrilled girlfriend, as she celebrated taking over from Caroline as host for the series.

Iain also took his Stories to share a message for Laura, writing: 'Delighted to have @whitmore join the Love Island team.'

Funny: The Scottish comedian took to Instagram to share a sweet selfie alongside his girlfriend, with post playfully asking if she was single

Sweet: Iain also took to his Stories to share another post congratulating his girlfriend, while also paying tribute to Caroline by saying he was 'sad' to see her step down

The narrator also praised Caroline to her contribution to the show over five series, and added his disappointment at her decision to step down.

He wrote: 'Whilst I'm sad @carolineflack won't be joining our team in South Africa for the first ever Winter Love Island, I understand her decision to step down from the series.

'And she should be SO proud of our achievements over her many series.'

She's in! It comes after ITV confirmed that Laura would be standing in for Caroline for Love Island's winter series on Friday

It comes after ITV confirmed that Laura would be standing in for Caroline for Love Island's winter series on Friday, after it was revealed exclusively by MailOnline on Wednesday.

Following Caroline's arrest and charge for assault after a fight with her boyfriend Lewis Burton, 27, last Thursday, the star, 40, announced earlier that she was set to step down as presenter for the sixth season of the show.

Laura shared a snap on Instagram of a water bottle adorned with her name - one of the hallmarks of the show and a prop given to all contestants.

Referencing both her friendship with Caroline and the host's efforts to get her the job, Laura said in her statement: 'To say I'm excited to be heading to Cape Town to host Love Island, the biggest show on television, is an understatement...

'I want to thank ITV for trusting me at the helm of this huge show. I wish it was in better circumstances; Caroline is a brilliant host and also a friend.

'We've spoken a lot in the last few days since she stepped down. She has been very kind to me and strongly pushed me for this role. I've watched her host every series and know I have big boots to fill. I will try and do it justice...

Happy days! Taking to both social media and in an official statement, the Irish star confirmed the news which MailOnline revealed exclusively on Wednesday

Here come the girls: Laura and Caroline are long-time pals and Laura revealed the long-time host pushed for her to get the job (pictured in 2013)

Way back when... Caroline has stepped down as host (pictured in the show dropped trailer for the January series)

'Above all, I am a massive fan of this show. I've never been to a Love Island villa, and I can't wait to get in there to meet all the new Islanders looking for love.'

'The Love Island team are the best in the business… including the voice and heart of the show, Iain. He thought he was getting a holiday away from me… not a chance!'

Shortly after the announcement, Caroline took to Instagram to pen: 'I'm glad it's Laura... She loves the show as much as I do... again...

Open and honest: Shortly after the announcement, Caroline took to Instagram to pen: 'I'm glad it's Laura... She loves the show as much as I do... again'

Laura's Instagram comment in full I will be hosting Love Island and Aftersun this series. Whhhhaa??? To say I’m excited to be heading to Cape Town to host Love Island, the biggest show on television, is an understatement. I want to thank ITV for trusting me at the helm of this huge show. I wish it was in better circumstances; Caroline is a brilliant host and friend. We’ve spoken a lot in the last few days since she stepped down. She has been very kind to me and strongly pushed me for this role. I’ve watched her host every series and know I have big boots to fill. I will try and do it justice. Above all, I am a massive fan of this show. I’ve never been to a Love Island villa, and I can’t wait to get in there to meet all the new islanders looking for love. The Love Island team are the best in the business… including the voice and heart of the show, Iain. He thought he was getting a holiday away from me...not a chance

'Thank you for your continuous messages of support... it's a really rough time... but I'm doing all I can to keep my head above water and sort this all out.'

Head of Digital Channels and Acquisitions, Paul Mortimer, said: 'I'm delighted that Laura is able to step in this winter on ITV2's biggest show.

She is the best person for the job and is a popular and experienced presenter of live television. Whilst Caroline is away, we know that Love Island will be in very safe hands.'

Caroline has been rocked by scandal since last week when she was arrested and charged with assault after the argument with Lewis.

She has only been pictured out once in the week since she was arrested, seen just outside the Soho hotel in London with her PR Nathan Charles.

The channel has cut her from the Love Island promo ads which she filmed ahead of the show's confirmed start date on January 12.

Meanwhile, Caroline's romance with tennis player and model Lewis, appears to have been patched up.

He took to Instagram Stories to call her 'loyal and kind' and shared various pictures of her on social media along with a love heart. It's unclear if Caroline has been able to have contact with Lewis or if her bail conditions dictate otherwise.

Happy days! Laura's boyfriend Iain Stirling is the voiceover for the show

Standing down from the series on Tuesday, Caroline broke her silence on Instagram and wrote: 'There have been a significant number of media reports and allegations in regard to my personal life.

'While matters were not as have been reported I am committed to co-operating with the appropriate authorities and I can't comment further on these matters until the legal process is over.

'However Love Island has been my world for the last five years, it's the best show on telly. In order not to detract attention from the upcoming series I feel the best thing I can do is stand down from Series 6.

Happier times: Laura wrote: 'I want to thank ITV for trusting me at the helm of this huge show. I wish it was in better circumstances; Caroline is a brilliant host and also a friend' (pictured in 2016)

'I want to wish the incredible team working on the show a fantastic series in Cape Town.'

Caroline continued: 'And on a really personal level. I have never experienced such kindness and love in my whole life.

'Not just from friends and family who are always the greatest but also from total strangers who send messages to me offering help and understanding... Please know that I see them and my boyfriend Lewis. I love you x.'