The missing Texas mom found dead Thursday repeatedly tried to leave her fiancé and accused him of physically assaulting her, DailyMail.com can disclose.

Photos taken by Heidi Broussard, 33, in March show the injuries she said she had suffered after fiancé Shane Carey attacked her in a row over her wish to leave him.

Bruises to her arms and legs can clearly be seen in the pictures which Broussard sent to her friend of 20 years Cliff Nolte, 37.

Broussard's body was found inside the trunk of a car at a home in Houston Thursday and inside police found her one-month-old daughter Margot alive.

Photos taken by Broussard in March show bruises and red marks on her arms which she told friends were caused by her fiancé Shane Carey

In the social media messages that accompanied the photos, Broussard said the bruises were due to Carey 'grabbing' her.

She explained: 'Shane grabbed me really hard because I tried to stop him because he stole Zeus [their dog] last last [sic] cause I told him I couldn't stay.'

A horrified Nolte then replies: 'You need to call the cops on him Heidi. You can't keep letting this happen.'

No record of police call outs to Broussard's home could be found and Carey has no publicly recorded convictions.

According to Nolte, the photos have been shared with the detectives investigating her December 12 disappearance and now-death along with baby daughter Margot.

Two people - who have not been named - are in custody being questioned after the grim discovery was made thanks to a call to Child Protective Services.

Nolte, of Rhome, Texas, said Broussard had intended to leave her fiancé after the March 11 incident but chose to stay after getting pregnant with Margot.

He said: 'She was going to leave quite a few times. We had everything prepared at our house to come and stay the last time but then she got pregnant with Margot and she decided to stay.'

Nolte added: 'He always pulled the ''I'm sorry, I won't do it anymore, I'll stop drinking'' promises and she kept hoping he'd keep them.'

DailyMail.com can reveal that Broussard had repeatedly tried to leave her fiancé and accused him of physically assaulting her. Text message conversations between Broussard and her friend of 10 years explain how Carey 'grabbed her really hard'

Her fiancé Shane Carey previously made an emotional public plea for Broussard and his one-month-old daughter to come home after the pair vanished last Thursday

Two people - who have not been named - are in custody being questioned after Broussard's body was found. Margot was taken to the hospital but is believed to be in a good condition

Broussard vanished with Margot from her Austin, Texas, apartment just over a week ago and was last seen dropping off son Silas, six, at a school book fair.

Last weekend, Carey, 33, made a tearful TV plea for her return in which he claimed he had returned home at around 2pm only to find Broussard and Margot gone.

Carey said the home they shared showed no sign of a break-in and said Heidi had left everything behind but her cellphone.

He reported the pair missing five hours later at 7.30pm after collecting Silas from the elementary school where the mom-of-two was last seen.

Neighbors Amanda and Cody Riordan said he had seen Casey pacing up and down outside their apartment building the day after Heidi disappeared

Now DailyMail.com can reveal neighbors have cast doubt on his version of events, with one saying that he heard an argument from next door just before 2pm.

Alan G, who asked not to use his full name, said he heard a muffled row shortly after returning home from his job as a barista at 1pm.

He told DailyMail.com: 'It was definitely after 1. I heard noises that sounded like an argument coming through the wall.'

Alan, who lives in the neighboring apartment, added: 'I didn't really know them very well – I would see them on the stairs and out walking the dog but that was it.

'We didn't really talk much.'

The Austin Police Department would not comment further on the timeline when approached by DailyMail.com.

Another neighbor Cody Riordan, 28, said he had seen Casey pacing up and down outside their apartment building the day after Heidi disappeared – adding that he had seemed distraught and was chain-smoking cigarettes.

Riordan, who lives three floors below Broussard and Carey, said he did not know the couple well but said they had seemed content.

Nolte, however, tells a different story – claiming that the pair, who met in 2009 and became engaged in 2012, have had a difficult relationship for years.

The 37-year-old, who first met Heidi when she was 14, insisted to DailyMail.com that the children are the main reason Broussard stayed.

He said: 'She wouldn't have left Silas but she wouldn't have left her stepdaughter either. She's Shane's daughter from a previous relationship.

'Heidi loved her just like she was her own.'

Broussard and Margot were last seen in Austin, and a week later Broussard's body was found in the trunk of a car at a home in Houston while Margot was found alive

Police were called to this home in Houston where they found the car with Heidi's body in it and the baby, safe inside. It is unclear if anyone else was in the property at the time

Of Carey himself, he is far less complimentary. He told DailyMail.com: 'Shane and I have never liked each other.

'We've been civil for the most part, every time we've been around each other. But he's disrespectful, jealous and insecure.

'I've known him for the last six years – ever since he's been with Heidi.'

Carey would not answer the door when DailyMail.com visited the apartment on Tuesday and Thursday, with neighbors saying he has not been seen there since Wednesday.

Nolte's hope of finding Heidi and her baby daughter was quickly fading. He told DailyMail.com: 'There is no way possible that she left of her own accord.

'We have baby stuff for Margot and we still haven't gotten to meet her yet. I just want the person responsible to come forward. That would be the biggest blessing.'