Laverne Cox had an early Christmas treat for her nearly 4M Instagram followers this week.

The 47-year-old Orange Is The New Black star slipped into a leopard-print bikini and filmed herself at home.

'3 days to vacay,' the transgender actress captioned a short video. She then added the hashtag, '#TransIsBeautiful.'

Slender: Laverne Cox had an early Christmas treat for her nearly 4M Instagram followers this week. The 47-year-old Orange Is The New Black star slipped into a leopard-print bikini

Soon on a flight: '3 days to vacay,' the transgender actress captioned a short video. She then added the hashtag, '#TransIsBeautiful'

The next day she added another photo: 'When you love then hate everything you try on to wear. 2 days til vacay.'

This comes after the star said she thinks the number of people fighting AIDS-related illnesses is 'insane'.

The star finds the situation heartbreaking - especially as many of the cases are potentially easy to prevent.

Showing off a lot: She had on a tiny string bikini and in the mirror her backside could be seen

Laverne - who has teamed up with Band-Aid and RED to fight the problem - told People: 'It's intense that in 2019, AIDS is still an issue in a lot of parts of the world, that we have new transmissions every year.'

'It's insane to me when we can prevent it.'

In her own life, Laverne has seen two of her mother's gay friends become HIV-positive and die.

The Orange Is the New Black star also bemoaned the 'crazy stigma around HIV/AIDS'.

She said: 'I know so many people who are living with HIV/AIDS and unfortunately far too many people who we've lost to the disease.

Another look: The next day she added another photo: 'When you love then hate everything you try on to wear. 2 days til vacay'

Not hiding: Her bra and top were both sheer giving her fans an eyeful

Stand up! Talking about her collaboration with RED on Instagram, Laverne wrote: 'There are 38 million people worldwide living with HIV. AIDS is still a crisis, but it doesn’t have to be

'And there's still a really crazy stigma around HIV/AIDS.'

What's more, Laverne claimed that many people still live in fear of the illness.

She shared: 'I think people of a certain age have this trauma of like, watching people we know and love die and then the trauma of that, and the trauma of like, 'Am I next?''

Talking about her collaboration with RED on Instagram, Laverne wrote: 'There are 38 million people worldwide living with HIV. AIDS is still a crisis, but it doesn’t have to be.

'This #WorldAidsDay I’m celebrating the work that Johnson & Johnson is doing every day to end this crisis, and wearing my @bandaidbrand RED bandage to show my support.

'Every box of @bandaidbrand x @red bandages you buy can provide one day of life-saving HIV medication. Help end AIDS in our lifetime by posting your bandage on social. Let's end the shame and stigma now. #BandTogether.'