Advertisement

They are the golden couple of soap who welcomed their third child in July.

And Charley Webb and Matthew Wolfenden are making space for their growing brood as they put their lavish West Yorkshire home on the market for £475,000.

The Emmerdale couple's home, which they lived in with sons Buster, nine, Bowie, four, and Ace, five months -is a former chapel which boasts four bedrooms, stunning views, a music room and chic decor.

Wow factor: Charley Webb and Matthew Wolfenden are making space for their growing brood as they put their lavish West Yorkshire home on the market for £475,000

Growing brood: The Emmerdale couple's home, which they lived in with sons Buster, nine, Bowie, three and Ace, five months -is a former chapel which boasts four bedrooms, stunning views, a music room and chic decor

Charley, 31, and Matthew, 39, are said to have spent a substantial amount of money renovating the Grade 2 listed home near Halifax, which was built in 1987, but have now moved to a home closer to the soap studios.

The gorgeous three-storey home is in an enviable location, with views of the rolling Yorkshire countryside.

It also features two living rooms, a music room and a mammoth master bedroom with sloped ceilings.

Wow: Charley, 31, and Matthew, 39, are said to have spent a substantial amount of money renovating the Grade 2 listed home near Halifax, which was built in 1987, but have now moved to a home closer to the soap studios

Inviting: An ultra modern kitchen features marble work-tops, two ovens and chic cream decor and backs onto a six seater dining room

Views: The gorgeous three-storey home is in an enviable location, with views of the rolling Yorkshire countryside

Elegant: A six seater dining table takes pride of place in the house with a balcony overlooking the room

A source told The Sun: 'They have moved because the commute to Leeds was becoming a pain and they've got three small kids so were always rushing about.

'The place is stunning and has amazing views but they needed to live closer to work.'

An ultra modern kitchen features marble work-tops, two ovens and chic cream decor and backs onto a six seater dining room.

The gorgeous master bedroom is decorated in the same neutral theme, with sloping ceilings adding extra drama to the space.

Rustic: The gorgeous master bedroom is decorated in the same neutral theme, with sloping ceilings adding extra drama to the space

Relaxed: A berry red sofa and an oak table are stylish additions to another reception room in the home

Style: An office boasts stunning views of the countryside in another spacious room

The pair initially met on set of Emmerdale, where they both work, when Matthew joined as David Metclaffe in 2006.

Charley and Matthew have been together since 2007 and tied the knot in a surprise wedding in February 2018, after being engaged for nine years.

And while she admits date nights are off the table until they adjust to life with three, Charley shared how much Matthew, 39, adores his role as a dad to their boys.

Although his passion for parenting does come with a cost for Charley, that cost meaning she's in fact the strict one. 'I'm definitely the strict one,' she admitted.

Lavish: A stunning bedroom features an ensuite bathroom and monochrome furnishings

Inviting: A second bedroom boasts stunning views of the countryside and cream furnishings

Alfresco: A table and chairs overlooks stunning views of the Yorkshire countryside

Garden life: Beautifully manicured gardens in the countryside surround the property

Elegant: A marble bathroom with a light up mirror is also seen in the envy-inducing snaps

'He's the more laidback, the fun one. He's very hands on as a dad and so involved with the kids.'

Charley has grown up on Emmerdale playing Debbie Dingle since 2002, when the then teenage character was fostered by Paddy (Dominic Brunt) and Emily Kirk (Kate McGregor).

Her character has been involved in some of the biggest storylines on the Dales, most recently dealing with the death of Lisa Dingle (Jane Cox), which led to Debbie deciding to move to Scotland to start a new life.

With her on-screen life currently in Scotland, Charley has time to enjoy her maternity leave but it has also left the door open for her to return to the soap, which she has done after her past two pregnancies.

Romance: Charley and husband Matthew have been together since 2007 and tied the knot in a surprise wedding in February 2018, after being engaged for nine years (pictured June 2017)