Felicity Ludlow rose to fame on Channel Seven's controversial reality series, Seven Year Switch back in 2017.

And after undergoing several cosmetic enhancements including Botox, lip fillers, a nose job and a boob job, the brunette beauty has shared a rare photo of herself prior to her transformation.

She took to Instagram on Friday to share the throwback photo of herself looking almost unrecognisable before her enhancements.

Who's that girl! Former Seven Year Switch star Felicity Ludlow shared a rare photo of herself (left) on her Instagram story on Friday before undergoing lip filler enhancements and cosmetic surgeries (right, Felicity after several cosmetic surgeries)

The reality TV star had a visibly smaller upper and lower lip before that was vastly slimmer than her current plump pout.

In the caption she explained: 'I had never had any filler in this photo. When I had gotten filler in my lips it's always been minimal.'

'As mentioned prior, I haven't had mine doing in a long time. Probably around nine months possible longer,' she added.

Before: In the caption she explained: 'I had never had any filler in this photo. When I had gotten filler in my lips it's always been minimal'

The brunette has been open about her transformation on social media, documenting every detail of her various procedures on Instagram.

Over the last two years, she's had Botox, fillers in her cheeks, lips, chin, and laugh lines, tear trough fillers, a non-surgical 'liquid nose job', and a boob job in Thailand.

Before going under the knife for her new chest earlier this year, Felicity shared a topless photo of herself to Instagram to show what her body looked like after breastfeeding her two children.

Over the last two years, she's had Botox, fillers in her cheeks, lips, chin, and laugh lines, tear trough fillers, a non-surgical 'liquid nose job', and a boob job in Thailand - which she documented on Instagram earlier this year

In the caption she said: 'This is raw. But this is me. It never used to be me and I've had nearly seven years trying to get used to my new boobs.'

'It's heavily challenged my mental health, social events and avoiding any event that means I may need to wear swimmers.

She explained that she was struggling to accept how her breasts look after 'two breastfeeding jobs'.

Physical struggle: Before going under the knife for her new chest earlier this year, Felicity shared a topless photo of herself to Instagram to show what her body looked like after breastfeeding her two children'

Perky! The brunette got her boob job in Thailand through CosMediTour, which is the same company that Married At First Sight's Susie Bradley used to get her surgery

'I've been told I have 3rd degree ptsosis in my breasts which means I'll need a complex surgery to fix these babies,' she added.

The brunette got her boob job in Thailand through CosMediTour, which is the same company that Married At First Sight's Susie Bradley used to get her surgery.

Felicity and her ex beau Mike Van Nimwegen signed up for Seven Year Switch back in 2017 inan attempt to fix their tumultuous relationship.

They went their separate ways soon after the show finished and now co-parent two children, Orlando, five, and Dakota, six.