He is set to star as the lead in the Boxing Day reboot of the popular children's series.

And Mackenzie Crook has admitted that he never watched Worzel Gummidge when he was younger yet it helped his writing process for the upcoming programme.

The Pirates of the Caribbean star, 48, spoke about the upcoming BBC reboot on Friday's episode of This Morning.

Scroll down for video

Confession: Mackenzie Crook has admitted that he never watched Worzel Gummidge when he was younger yet it helped his writing process for the upcoming programme (pictured on the chatshow, left, and in character as Worzel Gummidge, right)

Mackenzie said: 'I didn't watch it, I'm exactly the right age to have watched it but for some reason no, it passed me by, I think possibly because of that I thought I could take that on.'

Revealing why he decided to take on the show, he continued: 'I don’t know as I say it wasn’t part of my childhood but as soon as I started reading it I loved it...

'He's this enduring charming childlike character. The world of Scatterbrook Farm appealed to me.'

Mackenzie also added that his two children son Jude, 17, and daughter Scout, 12, helped him in his writing process.

Interview: The Pirates of the Caribbean star, 48, spoke about the upcoming BBC reboot on Friday's episode of This Morning

Iconic: Mackenzie said: 'I didn't watch it, I'm exactly the right age to have watched it but for some reason no, it passed me by, I think possibly because of that I thought I could take that on.' (the original cast pictured with Jon Pertwee as Worzel Gummidge)

'As I was writing it, I was testing it out on them, they should almost be given co-writer credits, if they didn’t like a joke it was taken out!' he joked.

The Office star went on to talk about the premise of the reboot, revealing that it 'differs quite a lot' from the original books.

He said: 'It differs quite a lot I've gone back to the original books, it’s a new adaptation of these 90-year-old books.

'I’m not trying to take Jon Pertwee off his throne and say this is Worzel Gummidge now, the two of them can be taken together.'

Loved it: Revealing why he decided to take on the show, he continued: 'I don’t know as I say it wasn’t part of my childhood but as soon as I started reading it I loved it...'

Talking about some of the differences in the new series, Mackenzie said: 'It didn't ring true that these two middle class kids go to live with their two poor relatives so it made sense to make them foster children.'

Mackenzie will be playing the role of Worzel Gummidge, formerly played by the late Jon Pertwee, and he revealed that it took three hours of make-up to transform him into his character.

'That was a three hour make-up job, I had to arrive to the make-up team for three hours.

'I mean he's built to scare but hopefully just crows not human beings but as soon as he opens his mouth and starts to speak you see he's a charming man.'

Family effort: Mackenzie also added that his two children son Jude, 17, and daughter Scout, 12, helped him in his writing process

Mackenzie put on a casual display as he attended a photocall and screening of the BBC show at the Charlotte Street hotel earlier this month.

The star was dressed in a blue shirt and jeans as he posed with fellow cast members Steve Pemberton, who plays Mr Braithwaite, the farmer and India Brown and Thierry Wickens, who play John and Susan.

Mackenzie writes, directs and stars in the revival, which is the modern adaptation of the classic books of Barbara Euphan Todd and comes to BBC One in two hour long films.

Michael Palin and Zoe Wanamaker also star in the upcoming festive edition.

Exciting: Mackenzie will be playing the role of Worzel Gummidge, formerly played by the late Jon Pertwee, he revealed that it took three hours of make-up to transform him into character (pictured in character with India Brown (Susan) and Thierry Wickens (John)

Worzel became a cult classic following its launch in 1979, with 31 episodes spread across a two year run before it went off air in December 1981.

The show, starring Pertwee as Gummidge, Una as Aunt Sally and Lorraine Chase as Dolly Clothes-Peg, would enjoy a brief revival in 1987 for the New Zealand based Worzel Gummidge Down Under.

Aired on Channel 4, the series charted Gummidge's adventures on the other side of the world after his beloved Aunt Sally is sold to a museum owner.

Gummidge made his first TV appearance in BBC series Worzel Gummidge Turns Detective in 1953, with Frank Atkinson taking the titular role some 26-years before Pertwee launched him into public consciousness.

Talented: Mackenzie writes, directs and stars in the revival, which is the modern adaptation of the classic books of Barbara Euphan Todd and comes to BBC One in two hour long films

Mackenzie made a name for himself as Gareth Keenan in Ricky Gervais' classic sitcom The Office before making the transition to film and a recurring role in the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise.

He has also featured in popular TV shows Skins, Merlin and Game Of Thrones.

His last TV appearance came in Amazon Prime's epic historical drama Britannia, in which he plays a druid.

Pals: Mackenzie posed with Thierry Wickens who plays John in the two-parter at a BBC photocall earlier this month

Earlier this month, fans were given a first glimpse of Mackenzie in character as walking, talking scarecrow Worzel in the reboot.

A trailer for the show shows Mackenzie looking unrecognisable in the revival of the 70s TV favourite which famously had the late Jon Pertwee in the lead role.

The clip opens with two children, John and Susan, arriving in the peaceful village of Scatterbrook.