Princess Charlene and Prince Albert of Monaco have released their official 2019 Christmas Card, giving their twins the starring role on the front cover.

Charlene, 41, and Albert II, 61, Monaco's reigning monarch, opted for twins Jacques and Gabriella, five, to lead this year's festivities in a sweet display.

Gabriella, dressed in a red frilly dress, joins Jacques, wearing a striped jumper and jeans, as they pose in front of a Christmas tree filled with gold and red baubles.

The room is decorated with a wreath decor along the mantlepiece, and the twins are surrounded by large presents, with the family's crowned 'AC' monogram above the picture on the cover.

Meanwhile the inside picture shows Charlene, dressed in an elegant red gown, sitting with Jaques on her lap and their pet Chihuahua by her side - and is the same as last year's card.

Princess Charlene and Prince Albert of Monaco have released their official 2019 Christmas Card, giving their twins the starring role on the front cover. Charlene, 41, and Albert II, 61, Monaco's reigning monarch, opted for twins Jacques and Gabriella, five, to lead this year's festivities in a sweet display

She is joined by a suited Albert, who stands behind her holding little Gabriella's hand, who is dressed in a white dress.

A note inside the card reads: ' May the peace and joy of the holidays be with you every day in the New Year.

'We wish you a Merry Christmas and a wonderful 2020.'

Meanwhile the inside picture shows Charlene, dressed in an elegant red gown, sitting with Jaques on her lap and their pet Chihuahua by her side

A note inside the card reads: ' May the peace and joy of the holidays be with you every day in the New Year.'

The card was sent to royal fan Katherine, who shared it on her fan account @katsroyalletters, and wrote: 'My first Christmas reply from Monaco arrived! It's this card fromHSR Prince Albert and his wife HSH Charlene with an adorable picture of their twins. So cute!'.

This came following Charlene and Albert's visit to a Christmas gifts distribution at La Croix Rouge in Monte-Carlo.

The couple spent time meeting those benefiting from the charity's work and presenting them with gifts on behalf of the royal family.

The Red Cross is a charity clearly close to the royal's hearts, with the couple hosting a gala ball in aid of the charity each July and last Christmas.

The couple spent time meeting those benefiting from the charity's work and presenting them with gifts on behalf of the royal family