He won the hearts of the nation on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here.

And it seems Coronation Street star Andrew Whyment is dumbfounded by his success as he appeared on Loose Women on Friday to chat about his stint.

The star, 38, who has starred on the show as Kirk for 19 years, revealed he will always put Coronation Street first regardless of job offers - even if it were a record deal.

Happy days: IT seems Coronation Street star Andrew Whyment is dumbfounded by his success as he appeared on Loose Women on Friday to chat about his I'm A Celeb stint

A day before his appearance, Andy was delighted to return to his day job as Kirk Sutherland - and celebrated with a free haircut.

The runner-up was as pleased as punch as he heralded his return to the Cobbles with a quick trim - sharing a snap of himself in the barber's chair.

The star wrote: 'First day back @coronationstreet after @imacelebrity and got a free hair cut from @corriemakeup. Even better than the £6 I pay my barber really glad to be back doing my proper job.'

Home again: The star, 38, who has starred on the show as Kirk for 19 years, revealed he will always put Coronation Street first regardless of job offers - even if it were a record deal

Andy also shared a fun snap from the cobbles as he marked his return to rainy Britain after three weeks of jungle life.

The Mancunian actor won a new legion of fans during his time on the long-running ITV show following a belated arrival alongside fellow actor Cliff Parisi.

Discussing how it felt to be liked as his own person rather than his character as he said: 'That was what was so nice obviously being in Corrie for 19 years as Kirk that was all I was to people, Kirk, so it’s nice that people got behind me...

Help! The Mancunian actor won a new legion of fans during his time on the long-running ITV show following a belated arrival alongside fellow actor Cliff Parisi

Way back when: Kirk has become a show stalwart (pictured with his co-star Jennie McAlpine)

'We were filmed 24 hours a day, so you couldn’t hide… I was going to go in there and being myself and thankfully people liked what they saw and voted for me. I’ve always been a massive fan of the show, watched it since season one.'

Speaking about his Coronation Street career, he said: 'Oh no Corrie is my number one priority, when someone asked if I was going to be given a record deal I thought thanks but no thanks.

'When I went back to work yesterday and they lifted the barriers I felt I was back home'.

My number one: Speaking about his Coronation Street career, he said: 'Oh no Corrie is my number one priority, when someone asked if I was going to be given a record deal I thought thanks but no thanks'

Andy confessed that while he was in the jungle he deeply missed his wife Nichola and their two kids.

He said: 'I was a blubbering mess in there, I missed Nick and the kids, it’s a studio but you are in the middle of the jungle, the hard bit is you don’t know what’s been shown what’s been said we have been together for 16 years, I talk to her everyday…

'She's a gem, she really is like I say I knew I’d miss her but when you're in there you don’t realise that you don’t talk to them'.