Fans have been eagerly awaiting their reunion ahead of the Christmas Special.

And Gavin and Stacey stars Ruth Jones, 53, and Rob Brydon, 54, have said that filming the reunion was 'the happiest job they've ever done.'

Speaking to Graham Norton in scenes set to air on Friday, actress Ruth - who plays the loudmouthed Welsh Nessa - also said she feels 'empowered' playing the character due to her brazen, no-holds-barred nature.



It's nearly here! Gavin and Stacey stars Ruth Jones, 53, and Rob Brydon, 54, have said that filming the Christmas reunion was 'the happiest job they've ever done'

The Gavin and Stacey Christmas Special comes 10 years after the BBC show came to an end, and sees the titular couple reunite their families for a Christmas celebration in Barry.

Speaking about the special, Ruth says: 'It's crazy that it's been so long.'

Rob - who plays the hilarious Uncle Bryn - added: 'Getting everyone together was amazing. I was sure it wouldn't happen because there was literally a two-week window.

'But we did and it was so lovely and so emotional. I'd seen pretty much everyone over the years, but not all together. It was the happiest job I have ever done.'

Exciting: The two actors - who play Nessa and Uncle Bryn in the comedy respectively - had reunited for one-off special which will air on Christmas Day

Close: Ruth (left) added that it was 'crazy' it had been a decade since the last series aired, while Rob (right) added it was 'crazy' the entire cast were able to come back together

As ever Ruth is tight-lipped about plot details for the special, but did reveal one story idea that never made it into the final cut.

She says: 'We were keen to keep the warmth that was always there.

'You think about some spectacular story lines and we toyed with the idea of Gavin having an affair or Gavin and Stacy divorcing, but we really wanted to hold on to the heart of the original show and I hope we've done it.

'We had to keep it a secret for such a long time so the joy of being able to announce it was incredible.'

Outrageous: Rob's character Bryn will take charge of Christmas Dinner during the special, and it is expected to end in disaster

Ruth also says that even after 12 years since she first played Nessa, she still has a great amount of love for the character.

She tells Graham: 'I feel very empowered when I am her because she doesn't care, she is very confident, she wears clothes I would never ever wear, and she is quite masculine – a very alpha female. As Nessa I can be as rude as I like!'

Joining Ruth and Rob on the couch will be Star Wars actress Daisy Ridley, as well as Superman himself Henry Cavill and singer Robbie Williams.

Iconic: He and Ruth also reveal that there was one story that they considered featuring in the special, about Gavin having an affair

Sweet: Ruth also said that she feels 'empowered' playing the loudmouthed Nessa due to her brazen, no-holds-barred nature

Coming soon: Fans have been eagerly awaiting the Gavin and Stacey Christmas Special since it was first announced back in May, and the entire cast have returned to reprise their roles

Fans have been eagerly awaiting the Gavin and Stacey Christmas Special since it was first announced back in May, and the entire cast have returned to reprise their roles.

It will also see a reprisal of Nessa and Bryn's famous musical partnership, after they delighted fans with a cover of Kenny Rogers and Dolly Parton's Islands In The Stream back in 2009.

The cast have been tight-lipped about whether they would ever reunite for another series, but it is expected to one of the highlights of the Christmas Day TV schedule.

The Graham Norton Show airs on BBC One on Friday 20th December at 10:35pm.