Mike Hill proposed to Cynthia Bailey despite Kenya Moore trying to ruin the surprise on Sunday's episode of The Real Housewives Of Atlanta.

The 49-year-old Fox sportscaster dropped to a knee in front of her friends and family during an event celebrating her latest business venture.

Kenya, 48, after being alerted via text by Kandi Burruss, 43, that she thought Mike was going to propose brought it up with Cynthia, 52.

Question popper: Mike Hill dropped to a knee and popped the question to Cynthia Bailey on Sunday's episode of The Real Housewives Of Atlanta as Kenya Moore tried to ruin the surprise

'I feel like he might propose tonight,' she said noting the presence of his family members as Cynthia gasped.

'My stomach has butterflies,' Kenya added.

Cynthia downplayed the idea saying her mother would have been invited, just as her mom Barbara was shown arriving.

Kandi, who had been given a tip by Mike to stay around, took Kenya aside and scolded her while she smirked back.

Surprise spoiler: Kenya told Cynthia that she thought Mike was going to propose at the party

Totally unaware: Cynthia downplayed the idea saying her mother would be there as her mother Barbara was shown arriving

Inside information: Kenya was told in a text by Kandi Burruss that she thought Mike was going to pop the question

'Why would you bring that up to her? Why do that?,' Kandi asked her.

She asked the same questions in a confessional and came up with a one-word answer: 'b****'.

Kandi ordered Kenya not to say another word as she continued to harangue her.

Good questions: Kandi repeatedly asked Kenya why she was bringing it up

Sly smile: Kenya smirked at Kandi as she asked her why she brought up the proposal

'What is wrong with you? I can't believe you,' she told Kenya as guests continued to arrive at the party celebrating Cynthia's new Bailey Wine Cellar.

Kandi retreated outside with husband Todd Tucker to cool off.

'She had me so mad. I had to go outside to regain my composure,' Kandi said.

Getting angry: Kandi exploded at Kenya for trying to ruin the moment

Cooling off: Todd Tucker went outside with Kandi as she tried to regain her composure

She told Todd how Cynthia and Kenya are 'good friends' and she wondered why she would want to ruin the moment.

'Sometimes she does things,' Kandi sighed.

Mike at the wine opening followed a congratulatory speech by Eva Marcille, 35, by addressing the audience.

Speech time: Mike at the wine opening followed a congratulatory speech by Eva Marcille, 35, by addressing the audience

'I would like to propose,' he teased as Cynthia looked shocked and then added, 'a toast'.

Mike talked about her new bar business and offered up another toast as Cynthia's daughter Noelle brought out the engagement ring.

'What in the world?,' Cynthia said.

Too much: Cynthia covered her eyes as Mike started proposing to her

Party guest: Kenya beamed as Mike dropped to a knee

New rock: Mike slipped the engagement ring onto Cynthia's finger

Mike declared his love for her as he dropped to a knee and asked, 'Will you marry me?'.

Cynthia nodded affirmatively saying 'yes' and Mike put the ring on her finger.

She showed off her new jewelry in a confessional, saying, 'Who's thirsty now? Got my man, got my rock. Time to chill.'

Family bond: Cynthia and Mike were joined by their children Noelle, Kayla and Ashlee

Film reel: A black-and-white film reel showed Cynthia's journey to engagement

Got it: Cynthia showed off her new jewelry in a confessional, saying, 'Who's thirsty now? Got my man, got my rock. Time to chill'

The episode opened with Mike showing Noelle, 19, and his two daughters Ashlee, 19, and Kayla, 17, the engagement ring.

Porsha Williams, 38, received a visit from her ex-fiance Dennis McKinley who brought her flowers after cheating on her while she was pregnant.

Dennis blew out candles on his birthday cake and complimented Porsha on her post-baby body as he held their baby girl Pilar.

First look: Mike took Noelle and his daughters to see the engagement ring

Family moment: Dennis McKinley visited Porsha Williams and their baby girl Pilar

A producer asked if Porsha had given Dennis 'the cookies' and she strongly replied, 'No! I have not. No, no, no.'

She later added that the cookie jar was closed.

'It is no longer a jar,' Porsha said.

Jar closed: A producer asked Porsha if she has given Dennis 'the cookies' and she said the cookie jar was closed

Cynthia met with Marlo Hampton on Thursday, a day before the proposal, as part of her Snake Gate investigation.

She was trying to track down who allegedly recorded her speaking ill of NeNe Leakes, 52, who told Kandi that such a recording existed.

'Did you do the recording? Are you recording me now?,' Cynthia asked.

Marlo got emotional by the line of questioning and said she had a 'tear in my eye'.

Friendly interrogation Cynthia met with Marlo Hampton on Thursday, a day before the proposal, as part of her Snake Gate investigation

She denied recording anybody and continued on her peacemaking mission by informing Cynthia that NeNe was going on their group trip to Toronto for a carnival celebration.

Kandi also was seen with Todd urging him to scale back on their multiple businesses.

He was giving her a tour of his planned space for their new Mexican restaurant O Le G following the success of their Old Lady Gang restaurant.

Multiple businesses: Kandi also was seen with Todd urging him to scale back on their multiple businesses

Money pressure: Kandi was given a tour of his planned space for their new Mexican restaurant

Kandi noted their lease for OLG 2 breakfast and recent the purchase of an 18-wheeler along with the Mexican restaurant plans.

'We can't over-extend. One recession comes through, that can wipe you out,' Kandi warned.

Todd accused her of being 'scared of success'', but Kandi stood her ground.

Fear card: Todd accused her of being 'scared of success'', but Kandi stood her ground

Safe moves: Kandi warned that a recession could wipe them out

'I've outlasted a recession. I know how it goes,' she told Todd.

She told Todd that their business life had taken over their entire life.

Todd promised that they would go on a date.

Cynthia at her party was given a note from NeNe wishing her success.

Touching note: Cynthia was touched by a note from NeNe wishing her success

Cynthia was touched by the note and wiped her eyes, but Kenya later made fun of it and read it aloud imitating NeNe.

'It takes a big person to apologize, I don't see an apology in there,' Kenya said.

Kenya the next day after the party drove with her husband Marc to dinner with Cynthia and her fiance Mike along with Kandi and Todd.

Passenger seat: Kenya the next day after the party drove with her husband Marc to dinner with Cynthia and her fiance Mike along with Kandi and Todd

She told Marc about the engagement and he asked if Cynthia was surprised.

'I just had a feeling,' Kenya told him as she admitted that she told Cynthia 'this might be the night'.

'You sold out the guy,' Marc said.

Group dinner: Cynthia was talking about Kenya and her proposal prediction right before she joined them for dinner

The group dinner got awkward as Kenya pressed Marc to tell how he proposed to her.

Turns out he didn't ask and failed to get on a knee.

Marc protested that their wedding was romantic and Kenya said it was the happiest day in her life.

Getting awkward: Kenya pressed Marc to tell how he proposed and it turns out he didn't ask and failed to drop to a knee

'Second to winning Miss USA,' she added.

'Second?,' Marc asked.

Kandi in a confessional said she was shocked that Kenya's nine-month-old daughter Brookly didn't make the top two.

Second place: Marc looked astonished when Kenya ranked their wedding as the second happiest day in her life behind winning Miss USA

Marc and Kenya then argued over whether or not they spoke about getting a prenup at the dinner tale.

He also pointed out how they were different and that Kenya 'likes a little flash' as her Bentley was brought up by both of them.

Marc also stood up for NeNe claiming she always treated him respect.

Kenya gave a toast to Cynthia and Mike and also celebrated Kandi and Todd's relationship.

'I had no idea how bad things were,' Cynthia said in a confessional.

Lovely toast: Kenya gave a toast to Cynthia and Mike and also celebrated Kandi and Todd's relationship