Mikel Arteta has a job on his hands after he was confirmed as Arsenal's new manager.

The Gunners are down in 10th in the table, have won just one game in their last nine in the Premier League and need to improve rapidly as soon as Arteta gets to work in his new role.

Sportsmail has taken a look at the pressing issues he faces when he takes charge...

Mikel Arteta has a job on his hands after being given his first shot at management at Arsenal

Arteta has returned to his former club but faces a huge challenge to turn things around

Sort out the defence

It feels as though this is a problem going back years at Arsenal and it might take more than just a new manager to fix it.

Arsenal's defence has been weak since Arsene Wenger's best days in charge, when the Invincibles stormed to the title on the back of one of the meanest back fours in the country.

Over the years, a lack of money and questionable signings have combined to create easily the most lax backline among the big six.

Arsenal have conceded six goals over their last three Premier League games and also shipped two at Standard Liege last week.

There have been problems in defence under manager after manager at Arsenal

The problem is that the players available to Arteta will not fill him with much hope. David Luiz is probably the pick of the lot and he has had his moments since his summer arrival.

The less said about Skhodran Mustafi, the better, while Sokratis, Rob Holding and Calum Chambers have not locked down the position when given a chance.

At full-back, he at least has options. Hector Bellerin still needs to find fitness but is a fine right-back, while Sead Kolasinac is good enough to play on the other side until Kieran Tierney is fit again.

It feels as though Arteta will have to paper over the cracks a bit and find a system that works until January at least, when he needs to ask the board to splash out a bit on some better players back there. He won't do anything with the players available to him as it stands.

They concede loads of goals and have not looked solid at any stage in recent years

Figure out what is going on with Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang...

It has not got enough attention amid the problems with the man in the dugout, but Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang's situation at Arsenal is becoming a growing issue.

The facts of the matter are as follows - his contract runs out in the summer of 2021 and if Arsenal want to secure a proper fee for a player that cost £57million, they will have to sell him in one of the next two transfer windows.

They have been trying to tie him down to a new deal but Aubameyang is unsure that it would be the right decision for him.

Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang's contract runs out in 2021 and he is not likely to sign a new deal

While Arteta is a highly-rated coach, he is not the elite manager Aubameyang would have wanted to show him that Arsenal will be making a step up in the future and competing for honours.

Whatever else goes on, Arteta needs to speak to Aubameyang sharpish and figure out where his head is.

If it is still in north London, and there is a future for him with the right results, then it is worth persevering with a top striker.

... and find a way for him to play alongside Alexandre Lacazette

The biggest issue that Unai Emery had - apart from trying to piece together a workable defence - was how to get Alexandre Lacazette and Aubameyang on the pitch together.

There are not many teams in this day and age that play with two genuine strikers and have much success with it, especially at the elite level.

And that grew into a problem for Emery. Aubameyang and Lacazette were two of his best players and will be for Arteta too.

Aubameyang and Alexandre Lacazette are among Arsenal's best players and need to play

He tried to get around it by using one of them out wide. He often dropped one to the bench or rotated between them. None of them worked as well as having both in the starting XI, both as strikers.

Freddie Ljungberg has used Aubameyang on the right since he took over and that has not been a success either.

Arteta has been hailed as a great thinker when it comes to the game. This is one place where he needs to get his mind working.

Find a system and stick to it

Another problem Emery had, which was partly forced by the issue with Aubameyang and Lacazette, was that he constantly chopped and changed between tactics.

Sometimes he'd play a four-man defence, sometimes he'd switch to a three. Either way, they did not look particularly secure — which is not surprising given the frequency with which he moved them around.

Arteta has worked under a manager in Pep Guardiola who, barring the occasional tweak, has stuck to 4-3-3 for the majority of his career.

The new man at Arsenal needs to heed that lesson. Get the players understanding a particular way to play and commit to it. The alternative is always confusion.

Arteta should heed lessons from Pep Guardiola and stick to his guns when it comes to tactics

Get some results on the board — and fast

This is a simple one but Arsenal have won just one Premier League game since the start of October and look like a team with their confidence in absolute tatters.

The minimum expectation for Emery at the start of the season was that he would qualify for the Champions League but that looks increasingly unlikely as the gap to fourth increases.

They are seven points behind Chelsea, which is not an unbridgeable distance at this stage of the season, but there is only one way to go about catching up.

It is with results. A winning run and some momentum would not go amiss at the Emirates about now.