Mariah Carey, 49, threw shade at Alison Hammond during an interview aired in full during Friday's edition of the show.

The British television personality, 44, attempted to impress the pop icon by flaunting her vocals during their chat however the singer appeared less than impressed.

When Alison suggested that she sing, Mariah made her disinterest clear when she told her: 'I would be happy for you to keep it to yourself.'

'I would be happy for you to keep it to yourself': Mariah Carey threw shade at Alison Hammond as she asked her not to sing before the presenter belted out a Christmas tune on Friday

After showcasing her singing voice, Mariah studied Alison and said to her 'are you mocking me?', as she appeared not to know what to make of her song.

Alison rushed to reassure Mariah that she definitely wasn't poking fun at her and laughed awkwardly in a bid to smooth things over between the pair.

Mariah then joked: 'Are you mocking me, Alison, after I made this card for you and everything?'

Attempting to brush over the awkward moment, Alison asked Mariah what she thought of the performance and the songstress replied: 'It's fabulous, but you need to add a 'to you' to it.'

Awkward: After showcasing her singing voice, Mariah studied Alison and said to her 'are you mocking me?', as she appeared not to know what to make of her song

Earlier on in the interview, Alison showed off her Mariah-themed T-Shirt, but while the singer called it 'sweet' she added: 'I have my own merch that is not the bootleg one and I'd love you to have some of that.'

There appeared to be no hard feelings between the singer and presenter though, as Mariah invited Alison to her house for Christmas.

When Alison asked Mariah to not 'play with [her]', the All I Want For Christmas singer claimed she had to come as she has 'to be on an open sleigh ride.'

Sing it! The British television personality, 44, attempted to impress the pop icon by flaunting her vocals during their chat however the singer appeared less than impressed

Poking fun: Attempting to brush over the moment, Alison asked Mariah what she thought of the performance and the songstress replied: 'It's fabulous, but you need to add a 'to you' to it'

Some viewers picked up on the tense moment and took to Twitter to express their joy at the 'iconic' moment between the two stars.

One said: 'Alison Hammond singing 'Merry Christmas' infront of Mariah Carey and Mariah saying 'Are you mocking me?' is iconic #thismorning.'

Another added: 'Then Alison mocking how Mariah sings. What a treat. #ThisMorning.'

Someone else said: 'Alison Hammond needs to NOT sing in front of mariah carey like that #thismorningChris.'

A viewer added: 'Are you mocking me Alison? Well yes Mariah she is lol #ThisMorning.'

Reassurance: Alison rushed to reassure Mariah that she definitely wasn't poking fun at her and laughed awkwardly in a bid to smooth things over between the pair

When they shared a clip of the singing earlier this month, Alison told hosts Holly Willoughby and Phillip Schofield of her mortification over singing out of tune to Mariah due to how nervous she was.

She said: 'I was nervous. I had the tune and everything before the interview, but it went out my head. I was like oh my god that's not sounding good.'

During the interview the two women spent time making Christmas cards, but Alison broke away from the arts and crafts to ask if she could sing her a new song.

Not impressed: Earlier on, Alison showed off her Mariah-themed T-Shirt, but Mariah said: 'I have my own merch that is not the bootleg one and I'd love you to have some of that'

When Mariah threw shade during the interview, Alison waited for her to say she was joking but then had to go ahead anyway without her approval.

She said: 'You don't have to look at me through it because it's a bit intimidating' before bursting into song.

Mariah is best known for her Christmas classic All I Want for Christmas Is You. It doesn't appear as though she's worried about Alison beating her in the charts.