Villagers looking to get into the festive spirit have hit out at forest managers after one young man was reported to police for taking a Christmas tree.

Villagers in Harbottle, Northumberland, say they've been claiming a tree from the Forestry England land in the Coquet Valley each year, with the understanding of local forest managers.

But this year, one of the locals who made the annual trek to collect the tree found himself confronted by police, as forest bosses crack down on the practice.

Villagers in Harbottle, Northumberland, say they've been claiming a tree from the Forestry England land in the Coquet Valley each year, with the understanding of local forest managers

Managers at Forestry England said it was 'unacceptable' for locals to remove the tree themselves without asking for explicit permission, and said 'uncontrolled tree felling' posed a risk to public safety.

Local councillor Steven Bridgett said: 'It's the Forestry Grinch who stole Christmas.

'It was always an unwritten rule in the three areas most affected by forestry activities, and what a great way it was to look after the community on Forestry England's doorstep.

One of the locals who made the annual trek to collect the tree found himself confronted by police, as forest bosses crack down on the practice. People are pictured above in the village in front of the tree

Villagers looking to get into the festive spirit have hit out at forest managers. Houses in the village are pictured above

'Now, a young lad has ended up being reported to the police for trying to do something good for his community at Christmas, and the first any of us knew about it was when the police turned up on his doorstep.'

The local man, one of several who took the tree, was ordered to pay £200 to the Great North Air Ambulance Service in recompense.

The fine was paid by the community, but Coun Bridgett insists the charge should not have been levied without warning.

He said: 'If they were unaware of any previous arrangements or were not happy for them to continue, the best option would have been to contact one of the young lads who they managed to identify through his vehicle and say that obviously this year will be the last time it will be allowed to happen.

The local man, one of several who took the tree, was ordered to pay £200 to the Great North Air Ambulance Service in recompense. The fine was paid by the community. A festive fund is pictured above

Villagers looking to get into the festive spirit have hit out at forest managers. A wagon is pictured above transporting tree trunks past the Christmas tree on the village green

'But no. In the spirit of Christmas time and fostering good relations with the communities who are directly impacted by Forestry England's operations, they thought the best option would be to report the young man to the police.'

The councillor said the move could mean 'the good relationship that has been built up over many decades between Forestry England and the communities in the Coquet Valley is now over', and that he would urge locals to complain more about damage caused by timber wagons and refuse to help police poaching on forestry land.

Kevin May, forest management director for Forestry England in the region, said: 'Forestry England staff receive numerous requests each year to provide 'free' Christmas trees. We are not able to support all such requests and it would be unfair to single some out for support whilst denying others. This means that we now have to say no to all such requests.

'At Harbottle we were faced with the evidence of individuals entering a public forest and removing a tree without contacting us beforehand which means that there was no express consents or permissions in place, this is unacceptable.

'In addition to the removal of public property without consent there is an associated risk to individual and public safety through uncontrolled tree felling activity.

'In response to this unauthorised activity we sought advice from the local police which supported a community resolution which included a request to make a charitable donation to the Great North Air Ambulance Service.'

Managers at Forestry England said it was 'unacceptable' for locals to remove the tree themselves without asking for explicit permission