Love Island star Amy Hart has sent her support to Caroline Flack and says she 'really hopes she's OK' after she stepped down as the show's host in the wake of her arrest and assault charge.

The former air stewardess, 27, told MailOnline she has 'a lot of respect' for Caroline, 40, just hours after Laura Whitmore, 34, was confirmed to front the forthcoming ITV2 winter series in South Africa next month.

Amy, who left the villa midway through her series after being left devastated by her split from Curtis Pritchard, said: 'Caroline was really supportive to all of us.'

'I have a lot of respect for her': Love Island's Amy Hart has sent her support to Caroline Flack and says she 'hopes she's OK' after she stepped down as the show's host (pictured in July)

She continued: 'I really hope Caroline is OK. I have a lot of respect for her as a presenter and a person.

'She was really supportive to all of us last series. But obviously I can't comment on things I don't know about.'

New host Laura admitted she sobbed watching Amy's emotional farewell scenes on the show after the two bumped into each other by chance at the airport days following her exit.

Amy said: 'Laura was the first person I met when I came out the villa.

'It was weird, we were in the airport lounge in Majorca waiting to go home and she came in with sunglasses on and a dark coat and I kept looking at her thinking "I know that girl" and she came over to me and I realised it was her.

Perfect fit: The former air stewardess, 27, told MailOnline she has 'a lot of respect' for Caroline, 40, as Laura Whitmore, 34, (pictured with Amy in July) was confirmed as her replacement

'She said, "You made me cry last night!" She asked me for a selfie and I thought "Yeah, OK" – nobody had ever asked me for a picture at this point!

'The first picture I was ever asked for was by Laura Whitmore. She loves the show, so I think she will be a really good fit and her and Iain working together will be fun.'

Amy spoke in admiration for Caroline a week after it was revealed she had been arrested and subsequently charged with assault following a fight with her boyfriend, model and former tennis player Lewis Burton, 27.

After Laura was confirmed as her replacement today, Caroline publicly gave her blessing for her long-term friend to step into her shoes, saying: 'I'm glad it's Laura.

'She loves the show as much as I do... again thank you for the continuous messages of support... it's a really rough time... but I'm doing all I can to keep my head above water and sort this all out...'

No way: Amy has vowed to never promote any diet related products after Lauren Goodger was exposed for auditioning to advertise a poisonous cyanide drink

Not clever: Lauren boasted about never trying 'Skinny Coffee' despite promoting it to her 762K Instagram followers in footage captured by BBC Three series Blindboy Undestroys the World

Earlier this week, a BBC investigation exposed Lauren Goodger, Mike Hassini and Zara Holland for auditioning to promote a poisonous cyanide drink on their social media pages.

The reality stars were secretly filmed being asked to promote a fake diet drink in the BBC Three series Blindboy Undestroys the World, despite it not being ready for production.

Amy, who boasts 1.3million followers on Instagram, vowed she will never put her name to any diet related products as she feels a responsibility to her young fans to be a good role model.

She said: 'I get offered diet shakes and juice cleansers all the time to promote but I won't. Awful.

'My philosophy on that is very simple. I know my Instagram followers are very young. They are very, very young. One of the girls that started up a fan page for me while I was in the villa was nine.

'I won't promote anything diet related or anything that I wouldn't want my little cousins to look at. I owe it to mums to be a good role model and to their children.'

'I owe it to them': The Celebs Go Dating star (pictured last month) says some of her fans are as young as nine years old and she feels a responsibility to their parents to be a good role model

The star, who is the new Hotels.com ambassador working on their campaign about embracing being single at Christmas, said the 'dating pool is horrendous' this time of year and it can be pressurising being made to answer questions from loved ones during the festive period.

Talking about the campaign, she said: 'Christmas is a busy time and there's lots of family around – there are more and more single millennials because the dating pool is horrendous.

'Everyone gets sick of being asked, "When are you going to bring a girlfriend home, when are you going to bring a boyfriend home?"

'They say by half past two on Boxing Day millennials are ready to checkout of family Christmas.

'Hotels.com are offering 50 per cent all single occupant rooms for Boxing Day night, you can go and have some time to drink wine and eat chocolate and not be barraged with questions.'

Amy Hart is working with Hotels .com to launch Xmas Escape Rates, giving singles 50% off hotel room bookings on Boxing Day when they apply the XMASESCAPE code at checkout