Advertisement

A private island on one of America's most scenic lakes has gone on the market for $15million.

The 3.3-acre isle, which lies in Lake George in upstate New York, offers its new owner a private sandy beach, 2,700ft of lakefront and stunning views of the surrounding lake and mountains.

The centerpiece of the island is a luxurious 15-bedroom mansion, which includes a formal dining room, a billiards room and a ball room. A whole wing of the house serves as a master bedroom suite with a private balcony.

There is also a separate, four-bedroom stone cottage, two separate two-bedroom apartments and a boathouse, as well as a diving board and a rope swing for adventurous guests.

The island is being marketed by estate agent Sotheby's International Realty, who describe its purchase as a 'once in a lifetime opportunity'.

Stunning: This private island in Lake George, New York, has gone on sale for $15million. The island has 2,700ft of lakefront, with room for 36 boats to dock, and spectacular views of the surrounding lake and mountains

Mansion: This 15-bedroom property is the centerpiece of the $15million property and is surrounded by trees on the shore of the Lake George island, which is being put on the market by Sotheby's

Spacious: This room has a wood floor, a fireplace and various artworks around a table with eight decorative chairs. It leads on to a kitchen area and several other rooms in the mansion on the Lake George island

Lake view: This image shows the same room from a different angle, showing how guests at the dinner table would be able to look out over Lake George in upstate New York

Parking bay: This image shows a yellow Chevrolet Corvette - not included in the $15million asking price for the island - parked outside an entrance to the 15-bedroom mansion in Lake George

A Sotheby's spokesman said: 'This turn-of-the-century mansion is a showstopper.

'Sitting on its own peninsula with an astounding 2,700ft of lakefront, your most striking view of Lake George and the mountains are simply breathtaking.

'The unique configuration allows for gracious public gathering spaces, both inside and out, or allows you to disappear into your own private retreat in your own wing.

'This is truly a once in a lifetime opportunity to own the absolute most amazing house on the lake.'

Lake George, on the south east of the Adirondack Mountains in upstate New York, is also known as the 'Queen of American Lakes'.

It is 32 miles long and up to three miles wide, with its own 'millionaire's row' along its west side.

Aerial view: A boat heads towards the shoreline next to the private island, which is located on Lake George, around 60 miles north of Albany and 200 miles north of New York City

Luxurious: The island includes a boathouse, 36 dock spaces, a diving board, rope swing, waterfall, greenhouse, expansive patios, separate balconies and a private sandy beach as well as the main mansion (pictured)

Landscape: The main building is surrounded by trees on the shore of the private island in Lake George. There is also a separate, four-bedroom stone cottage with a private gazebo

Kitchen: This modern-looking cooking area includes at least two ovens as well as a fridge and large central worktop. The new owners can sit by the windows and look over the lake as they wait for their food to cook

Living area: The new residents can sit on a chair or sofa in this comfortable-looking room with a view of the trees on the island. In this picture, there is a TV on the wall near a door leading to another room

Entrance hall: This picture shows a door with colorful windows leading into a passageway at one side of the building