Jose Mourinho insists he is now '100 per cent Tottenham' as he prepares to face former club Chelsea in a crunch clash in the race for the Premier League top four.

Mourinho began life in England with Chelsea, spending five years at Stamford Bridge over two spells.

He once claimed he could never manage Tottenham 'because I love Chelsea supporters too much.'

Jose Mourinho is adamant he is '100% Tottenham' as he prepares to face former side Chelsea

Mourinho (right) was a huge success at Chelsea and will take on former player Frank Lampard

Mourinho is hard at work in training to ensure that he takes Tottenham above rivals Chelsea

But after taking over from Mauricio Pochettino last month, the Portuguese said on Friday that his loyalties now lie solely with Spurs.

And ahead of this Sunday's clash with Chelsea he insisted he will not struggle to separate emotions and the task at hand.

'For me, it's a game. I am 100 per cent Tottenham, 100 per cent my club always, all my career,' he said.

'I have no space at all for my previous clubs. I gave everything to all of them... everything. I kept nothing from them. I gave everything but they are my previous clubs. I give everything to my club - my club is Tottenham.

'For me, it's so easy for me to play that game. Difficult because of Chelsea's quality but not difficult from an emotional point of view. Not difficult at all. Easy.'

Mourinho (middle) insisted he will not struggle to separate emotions and the task at hand

He added: 'The same way I gave everything to make Chelsea supporters smile and be happy, that's the same desire I have for Tottenham fans, to make them smile and be happy.'

Glenn Hoddle, who played for and managed both sides, said this week that Tottenham are a bigger club than Chelsea.

When asked whether he agreed, Mourinho said: 'My club is always the best club in the world, the biggest.'

On Sunday, Mourinho will come up against another former player in Frank Lampard, who took the reins at Chelsea over the summer.

Lampard's side are currently in the top four and have already qualified for the Champions League last 16. But while Mourinho has led Spurs up the table since taking over, Chelsea have stumbled in recent weeks, meaning Tottenham can leapfrog their rivals with victory on Sunday.

Mourinho admitted his fifth-placed side are higher in the table than he expected after only a month in charge.

Lampard is in a tough spot with Chelsea losing four of their last five Premier League games

But the Spurs boss is 'not surprised' by Lampard's impressive start to life at Stamford Bridge.

'You're talking about a fantastic squad,' he said.

'(He will get) a big hug before the game and another after the game, that's for sure independent of results and who is happy. I think our feelings will be forever.

'I'll always be grateful to him for what he gave me as a player. Nothing is going to change that. I love the guy, I will always love the guy. I hope he loses on Sunday.'

Spurs head into the game boosted by Toby Alderweireld's decision to sign a new contract.

The defender, whose previous deal was due to expire in the summer, has now committed himself to Spurs until 2023.

Toby Alderweireld signed a new contract at Tottenham Hotspur until 2023 on Friday

The contracts of Jan Vertonghen and Christian Eriksen are due to expire next summer

Christian Eriksen and Jan Vertonghen are both heading towards the end of their deals, too, but Mourinho insisted: 'I don't think it's a domino effect, I think every player has a different situation.

'I think for a player in the last year of contract to sign a contract must be a union of desires: the club, the manager, the player, the agent, eventually the family or friends. It must be a union of desires.

'With Toby, that expression of desire comes at the same time from every person involved. So he is done, Toby's done, he stays with us.'