A newborn baby whose sepsis was dismissed by doctors as a common cold died after a string of extraordinary NHS blunders, his heartbroken mother has claimed.

Only 48 days after giving birth to her Christmas 'bundle of joy', Laura Cooke, 29, endured the agony of grieving at lifeless son Luchii Gavilescu's hospital bedside.

Her and 29-year-old husband Vlado Gavrilescu's nightmare began five weeks after Luchii's birth, when she noticed developing breathing problems and a rash peppering his skin.

With no appointments available at her local GP, Ms Cooke, from Margate, Kent, took her son to the Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother (QEQM) hospital on November 29.

Ms Cooke alleged doctors shrugged off the symptoms as the common bronchiolitis infection, and was told there was nothing to worry about and no blood tests were needed.

But as Luchii's condition continued to slide, the panicked mother - on the advice of her GP - rushed back to A&E yet was again sent home with just saline drops after he was diagnosed with a cold.

Over the next few days, Luchii's 'cold' worsened - he slipped in and out of consciousness, his urine was dark and his skin mottled.

On the morning of December 6, Ms Cooke - racked with concern - broke down on a visit to her mother Anne's house.

Only 48 days after giving birth to her Christmas 'bundle of joy', Laura Cooke, 29, and husband Vlado Gavrilescu, 29, endured the agony of grieving at lifeless son Luchii Gavilescu's hospital bedside

Luchii's sepsis was dismissed by doctors as a common cold and died after a string of extraordinary NHS blunders, his heartbroken mother has claimed

M Cooke, who is also mother to Archie, 10 and Macie, nine said: 'I got to my mum's and burst out crying. I told her he doesn't look right and she agreed and said he shouldn't be breathing like this.

'He was very pale and was lethargic and floppy.'

So she dialled 999 and the ambulance arrived within minutes, assuring Ms Cooke by noting that Luchii's crying was a positive sign.

A timeline of little Luchii's tragedy October 26: Luchii is born to parents Laura Cooke and Vlado Gavrilescu. November 29: Ms Cooke took her son to the QEQM after worrying about her son's breathing problems and rash. Ms Cooke alleged doctors shrugged off the symptoms as the common bronchiolitis infection, and was told there was nothing to worry about and no blood tests were needed December 3: Luchii's condition worsened and he was rushed back to A&E yet was again sent home with just saline drops after he was diagnosed with a cold. December 6: Ms Cooke dialled 999 and was taken to hospital with her son, after waiting half an hour for the ambulance as they were not a priority. Luchii was operated on, and looked positive, but suffered cardiac arrest and died at 9.37pm.

Describing the traumatic day, Ms Cook said: 'He called the ambulance and asked how long the crew would be and she said what category would he class him and he said he will downgrade him to a three.'

The downgrading resulted in a half-hour wait for a British Red Cross Ambulance to arrive.

They at the QEQM just after midday but it was not until around 6pm that a bed became available in the children's ward.

In that time, Luchii had a blood gas test - the results of which allegedly caused creeping panic amongs the medics.

Ms Cooke added: 'I remember the paediatrician saying 'I'm going to start treatment for sepsis please let me do everything now and I will speak after'.

'I started crying and froze and my heart was racing. I sort of went into a panic and didn't know what to do or say.

'My mum came straight over and looked at him and was crying. He just looked lifeless.'

Luchii was also taken for an x-ray before being whisked up to the ward to be treated for suspected sepsis.

Ms Cooke recalled: 'As soon as we got to the ward a consultant looked at him in the cot and he knew he was very ill.

'He said to the other paediatrician who walked with us 'why hasn't this child been brought to me sooner'. Those were his words.'

Luchii was pronounced dead at 9.37pm on December 6 after suffering a cardiac arrest at the hospital (pictured, the last photo of him alive)

Because Luchii was so dehydrated, doctors struggled to insert an intravenous cannula to treat him with antibiotics and fluids.

By this time, the Cooke's family, including Valso's father Vasile, her brother Adam and her aunt Jane had all arrived.

Luchii was rushed to the operating theatre to fit him with a respiratory tube, where he had to also be resuscitated after he stopped breathing.

After 45 minutes of tearing her hair out with worry, Ms Cooke was told by a doctor Luchii was going to be all right.

The family was told the breathing tube had been inserted successfully and the baby would be transferred to London's Evelina Children's Hospital to recover for a few days.

Ms Cooke said: 'We were assured that he was fine. They said he would stay in London for five days and would come back to Margate for two days.'

But her relief would not last long, as the doctor ran back with an update which tipped her world upside down.

She said: 'The next minute a different doctor come round and said he was gone into cardiac arrest and they were trying to get him back.

Laura Cooke's children Archie Wicks, 10, Macie Vaughan-Whiting, nine, with Luchii

'We waited another 45 minutes not knowing. We were crying and they had just told us that our baby was stable and now our world just came crashing down.

'A doctor then walked in and the first thing he said was 'I'm sorry' and me and dad fell to the floor screaming and crying.

'We just couldn't believe it.'

Luchii was pronounced dead at 9.37pm on December 6. His devastated parents now say a catalogue of hospital errors resulted in his death.

Ms Cooke said: 'It was just heartbreaking telling my kids their baby brother who they were so excited to have and spent five weeks with was no longer here.

'I had to tell them he had gone to heaven.

'They were asking why and I didn't know how to explain it to them.'

She added: 'The way Luchii was treated was absolutely shocking. You expect to be able to put your baby's health and care in the trust of doctors and hospitals.

'This was completely preventable. No Christmas is ever going to be the same for us. It has torn our lives apart.

'Why didn't anyone believe me? We will go to the end until we get justice for Luchii.

'We can't allow this to happen to another family and for it to tear them apart.'

A spokesman for East Kent Hospitals said: 'Our thoughts and deepest sympathies go out to Luchii's family, and we are extremely sorry that they have suffered such a devastating loss.

'We have started a thorough investigation into Luchii's care. We will fully discuss the outcome of this investigation with Luchii's parents.

Ms Cooke (pictured at a vigil for her son) said: 'It was just heartbreaking telling my kids their baby brother who they were so excited to have and spent five weeks with was no longer here

'Until the investigation has concluded, we are not able to comment on his treatment.

'But we will continue to be in touch with Luchii's family.

'We apologise that they have concerns about Luchii's care and we will work as quickly as we can to be able to give them the answers they need.

'A dedicated key worker is supporting Luchii's family and we have referred Luchii's death to the coroner.'

East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation Trust, which runs the QEQM, has started an investigation into the baby's death.

The hospital's latest Care Quality Commission inspection was published in February and concluded that the QEQM required improvement.