Home Under The Hammer presenter Martin Roberts has been forced to withdraw plans for his dream home in Dartmouth after complaints from locals

Homes Under The Hammer star Martin Roberts is suffering his own planning nightmare after he was forced to withdraw plans for his dream home after complaints.

The telly property expert planned to build a modern and 'innovative' house overlooking the Dartmouth Estuary in south Devon.

He planned to settle down in Dartmouth with his wife Kirsty and two children, Megan and Scott.

But he has now withdrawn the application after locals and councillors complained the idea was totally out of keeping with the Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty.

After 12 formal objections, Mr Roberts decided to withdraw the plans before the planning authority, South Hams District Council, could have a final say on them.

Mr Roberts' plot, on Waterpool Road, contains remnants of a stone barn and he had hoped to build a three-bedroom pad with a study, open plan kitchen and levelled garden on the site.

His desire to live in Dartmouth was inspired by a holiday home he purchased in the area around 20 years ago.

Local David Heron, said: 'Waterpool Road is AONB. It has not suffered development for over 100 years, any now would spoil its special character.

'Furthermore, any development would increase the amount of traffic, and since the road is very narrow and has no footpath, additional dangers would be posed for the pedestrians and especially the schoolchildren who us it regularly.'

Neighbour Richard Bonstow wrote a letter of objection, which was made available among planning documents online.

He planned to settle down at the development in Dartmouth with his wife Kirsty and two children, Megan and Scott, but has now withdrawn the application after locals and councillors complained the idea was totally out of keeping with the Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty

Mr Roberts' plot, on Waterpool Road, has remnants of a stone barn and he had hoped to build a three-bedroom pad with a study, open plan kitchen and levelled garden on the site

He said: 'The plans submitted indicate the overall footprint of a very large structure being created totally out of balance with the surrounding area viewed from the other side of the valley which I have always understood to be classified as greenfield and not for development.'

Another local, Alan Stockbridge, added: 'The site is in an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB) and as such the natural environment and landscape legally enjoys the highest protection.

'The Applicant makes several references to the wide views that would be enjoyed by the developed site.

Neighbour Richard Bonstow wrote a letter of objection, which was made available among planning documents online

Martin Roberts (right) hosts daytime programme Homes Under The Hammer with Dion Dublin and Martel Maxwell

'Presumably this would mean that the developed site in the wooded hillside of the AONB would become more visible to most of the residents on the other side of the valley.'

Another neighbour Keith Satchell branded the plans as 'opportunistic' in his objection, stressing the house would lead to increased traffic through the 'narrow' road.

He added: 'The application appears opportunistic, merely based on the existence of the remains of a previous building. If approved, it would have the practical effect of changing the planning approach to the AONB.'

Philip Charlesworth, on behalf of the Dartmouth and Kingswear Society, commented: 'There can be no good arguments for allowing development.

'The topography of the site is such that major excavations would be needed to enable the construction of a house, with a big impact on the appearance of the surrounding area.

Roberts, who currently lives in a sprawling four-storey home in Bath, appeared on I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out of Here in 2016

'Furthermore, it is in the Special Area of Conservation for the Greater Horseshoe Bat, an extremely endangered species.'

Mr Roberts, 56, tried to win support from town councillors on Dartmouth Town Council at a planning meeting on Tuesday, September 10, and even took in a model of his design - but they agreed not to support it.

It was then due to go before the local planning authority, South Hams District Council, but Mr Roberts withdrew it on Wednesday.

The star has co-hosted popular daytime auction show Homes Under The Hammer since 2003.

He presents alongside Martel Maxwell, who replaced Lucy Alexander earlier this year, and ex-footballer Dion Dublin.

It follows home-seekers as they transform derelict properties at auction into refurbished pads.

Roberts currently lives in a sprawling four-storey home in Bath. He appeared on I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out of Here in 2016.