The stars of Melbourne's stage production of Chicago: The Musical have hit the red carpet to celebrate at the opening night party at State Theatre on Friday.

Natalie Bassingthwaighte, who plays Roxie Hart, wowed in a stunning gold dress by Jason Grech on the red carpet at Arts Centre.

The blonde beauty, 44, proudly flaunted her taut physique in the eye-catching frock which featured a thigh-high slit that drew attention to trim pins.

Golden girl! Natalie Bassingthwaighte wowed in a figure hugging dress at the opening night party for Chicago: The Musical at the Arts Centre on Friday

She teamed the look with a pair of gold platform heels and accessorised with matching chandelier earrings for a touch of glamour.

For make-up she rocked a bronze smokey eye with flash lashes, peach blush cheeks and a glossy nude lip.

Her co-star Casey Donovan, who plays Matron 'Mama' Morton, also hit the red carpet in a deep green dress with a cheeky deep-V.

Effortlessly elegant: Casey Donovan (centre with Alinta Chidzey and Natalie), who plays Matron 'Mama' Morton, also hit the red carpet in a deep green dress with a cheeky deep-V

Glamorous: For make-up the brunette beauty (right, with co-stars Alinta, Jason and Natalie) opted for dramatic flash lashes with blushed cheeks and a bold red lip

She teamed her elegant evening look with a pair of minimal style heels and a gold chain necklace.

For make-up the brunette beauty opted for dramatic flash lashes with blushed cheeks and a bold red lip.

Alinta Chidzey, who plays Velma Kelly, dazzled in a white figure hugging dress by Alex Perry that showcased her trim and toned physique.

Red carpet ready: Alinta (left with Casey and Natalie), who plays Velma Kelly, dazzled in a white figure hugging dress by Alex Perry that showcased her trim and toned physique.

True blue: Meanwhile Australian soap royalty Jason, who plays Billy Flynn, turned heads in a bright blue velvet blazer, which he teamed with a white shirt and trousers

The frock featured long split sleeves and a plunging neckline, which she paired with strappy gold heels.

She accessorised with statement earrings, bold flash lashes and a glossy nude lip.

The trio were joined by Australian soap royalty Jason Donovan, who plays Billy Flynn, turned heads in a bright blue velvet blazer, which he teamed with a white shirt and trousers.

Reunited! Jason smiled for a photo with his old friend and former Neighbours co-stars including Stefan Dennis (left)

Proud as punch: Jason was also beaming to share the spotlight with his actor father Terence (right)

Jason posed for photos with the lead female stars of the production and smiled for a photo with his old friend and former Neighbours co-stars including Stefan Dennis.

He was also beaming to share the spotlight with his actor father Terence.

The Especially For You also posed for a photo his daughter Jemma, who is now also starring in Neighbours.