She is known for her dedication to keeping fit and her incredible abs.

And Davina McCall looked sensational as she displayed her toned frame for a new shoot with Health & Wellbeing Magazine - and revealed her intentions to spice up the New Year.

The presenter, 52, showcased her washboard midriff and svelte waist in a tiny electric blue crop-top as she confidently posed.

Wow: Davina McCall looked sensational as she displayed her toned frame for a new shoot with Health & Wellbeing Magazine - and revealed her intentions to spice up the New Year

Drawing the eye to her toned legs, the beauty donned a matching pair of skintight leggings.

Her raven locks were styled sleek and straight while the former Big Brother presenter's ageless features were lit up with a radiant palette of make-up.

Talking about her resolutions for 2020, the clean-living star said she was determined to do something 'fun and a bit naughty' due to her healthy lifestyle.

She said: 'I feel like I've given up enough because I don't drink alcohol and I eat well, so I think there's a point at which you can just be too good, so I reckon my resolution would be to start up something fun that I can do that's a bit naughty, something that's bad for me.

Toned: Drawing the eye to her toned legs, the beauty donned a matching pair of skintight leggings

'People can be so hard on each other.'

Davina has won legions of new admirers with her dedications to her fitness goals with the star saying she was proud for proving there is 'life after 50.'

She said: 'I had loads of preconceptions about turning 50 when I was younger, so I think that's why I feel it's my duty to have the best time ever and to show you that there is life after 50.

'I thought I was going to be in twinsets and pearls with a purple rinse and a perm, so I'm excited that life isn't like that.

Let loose: Talking about her resolutions for 2020, the clean-living star said she was determined to do something 'fun and a bit naughty' due to her healthy lifestyle

'Sometimes I lie in bed thinking, like everyone else, I don't want to get up because I'm too tired, and then I look on Instagram and I see a picture of someone who's just done a run or a workout, and I think "I'm going to do mine".'

Davina said she was inspired by older women who are successful in the industry, saying: 'Helen Mirren is one, and Gloria Hunniford is another. I saw Gloria the other day and she looks SO fabulous; her and her husband just looked so cool, and she's so sharp.

'I don't even want to say how old she is, it doesn't matter, but she's a shining beacon of where I'd like to be. Greg Whyte trained me, David Walliams and John Bishop – he's my age and he is the fittest man I've ever seen, and I don't mean fit as in "hot", I mean literally fit.

Inspiration: Davina has won legions of new admirers with her dedications to her fitness goals with the star saying she was proud for proving there is 'life after 50'

'He's trained hard and he's so dedicated. I find him very inspiring. I always think that if he can do it, I can definitely do it – age is not a barrier.'

Interview: The full interview with Davina can be found in the latest issue of Health & Wellbeing Magazine, out on December 24

Davina is no stranger to flaunting her incredible physique in a skimpy bikini snap or two, and regularly documents her gruelling fitness regime on social media.

She recently spoke candidly about life in her 50s as she discussed her relationship with her body and how she's adjusted to life as a single mother following her split from husband Matthew Robertson.

Speaking to Good Housekeeping, the TV personality claimed she's been having a 'banger' of a decade and is at 'peace' with herself.

She explained: 'My 50s are a banger of a decade! Every age has a different set of hurdles to get over, but I've calmed down a bit and I'm feeling a lot more at peace with myself.'

Davina has had a whirlwind few years, and in 2018 she divorced her husband Matthew Robertson after 17 years of marriage.

The couple co-parent their three children, Holly, 17, Tilly, 15, and Chester, 12, and Davina praised her ex for being a 'hands on' father.

She revealed: 'Matthew is quite hands on, so I have support from him. We share the school runs in the morning, which is really nice.

'I won't deny it feels quite full on when I'm on my own though. Now that Tilly's nearly 16, I can go out and leave her and Chester at home for the evening, which has made quite a difference. I'm finding my new normal.'

The full interview with Davina can be found in the latest issue of Health & Wellbeing Magazine, out on December 24.