Skye Wheatley gave birth in December last year, and has worked hard to regain her figure ever since.

And on Thursday, the former Big Brother star revealed her cleavage, washboard stomach and trim pins, in an impromptu Instagram photoshoot.

The 25-year-old posed up a storm inside a modern bathroom, in nothing but racy black lingerie that accentuated her svelte frame.

One hot mama! Skye Wheatley, 25, showed off her cleavage and washboard stomach in racy black lingerie, in a post shared to Instagram on Thursday

In two photos shared on her official Instagram page, Skye ran one hand through her straight blonde hair extensions.

She gazed intently at the camera, drawing attention to a glamorous makeup palette.

Skye's striking facial features were enhanced with a matte complexion, defined brows, lashings of mascara, and a pink gloss on her very plump pout.

That'll get the likes: The former Big Brother star posed inside a modern bathroom, running one hand playfully through her blonde hair extensions

The blonde beauty tagged a lingerie brand in the caption, and encouraged her fans to 'spoil yo self (sic)' and 'keep the hubby happy at the same time'.

Skye welcomed her first child in December, son Forest with boyfriend Lachlan Waugh, whom she met on Tinder.

The Instagram sensation snapped back to her pre-baby body in record time, and put it down to her new 'healthy lifestyle' in an Instagram post in August.

Her pride and joy: The blonde beauty welcomed her first child, son Forest (pictured), in December last year

Proud of her efforts: Back in August (pictured), Skye shared a lengthy Instagram post that read: 'I'm honestly pretty proud of how motivated I have been to get my pre-baby body back!'

Posing in a racy white bikini to flaunt her frame, Skye shared a lengthy post that read: 'I'm honestly pretty proud of how motivated I have been to get my pre-baby body back!'

'I'm actually more fit than I was before which is pretty crazy! Leading a healthy lifestyle is so important to me now because of how much better I feel.'

Skye continued: 'I have more energy for Forest and am in such a better mindset, last weekend I had two rest days and I felt a little down... it really helps with my mood and I overall just feel so much better in every way!'

The former makeup artist rose to fame on the 2014 season of Big Brother Australia, and has since become an influencer and vlogger.