She's currently on her Christmas break in Perth.

And on Sunday, Love Island winner Tayla Damir certainly looked to be a picture of rest and relaxation.

Spotted at the city's Crown Towers, the 22-year-old soaked up the summer sun with a mystery man while lounging by the hotel pool.

Relaxing! Love Island winner Tayla Damir, 22, (L) soaked up the sun with a mystery man while on holidays in Perth on Sunday

Clearly enjoying the Christmas break, Tayla sipped on a drink while laying next to the strapping man on a turquoise blue sun lounge.

At one point, the two pals appeared to share a laugh together as they chatted at the luxurious hotel.

Tayla rested her hands on the man's knee, as she beamed from ear to ear.

Pals: Tayla rested her hands on the man's knee, as she beamed from ear to ear

Tayla flaunted her slender physique in a skimpy graphic white bikini for the outing.

At one point, the raven-haired reality star wrapped herself in a blue striped towel.

She went makeup free and wore her raven tresses up in a high ponytail.

Slender: Tayla showed off her lithe frame while donning a bikini at the hotel

Daily Mail Australia has reached out to Tayla for comment for this story.

It comes as Tayla opened up about the effects of reality TV, after she won the inaugural season of Love Island last year.

Speaking exclusively to Daily Mail Australia in November, Tayla revealed that Channel Nine bosses provided her and everyone at Love Island with consistent care.

She did, however, say she's aware that not everyone has encountered the same treatment.

Star: 'I think everyone has a different experience - mine was amazing, but that doesn't mean somebody else's was,' she said

'I think everyone has a different experience - mine was amazing, but that doesn't mean somebody else's was,' she said.

Revealing the state of care she received on the show, Tayla added: 'We had a psych there, we had a psych the whole time.

'If anything, it's probably the most support I've had in my life.'

Support: Revealing the state of care on Love Island, Tayla said: 'We had a psych there, we had a psych the whole time'

Tayla was crowned champion of the match-making show last year, alongside Grant Crapp.

After a failed relationship with Grant, she sparked up a romance with a different Love Island star - in the form of hunky Dom Thomas.

However, the pair called time on their romance in June - sharing a cringe-worthy video revealing they were heading up 'different paths' from one another.

Discussing her single status, Tayla said: 'I think I'm just focusing on myself at the moment.'