Jessie J took to Instagram Stories on Friday to reassure fans she is 'happy' as she broke her silence following her shock split from Channing Tatum.

Showing the actor what he's missing, she looked incredible wearing a metallic leotard with sexy tights and a white top over the top.

Her hair was styled in a sleek up-do with one strand fashioned into a pattern which sat on her forehead and was decorated with diamantés.

Getting on with it: Jessie J reassured fans she is 'happy' as she broke her silence on Instagram on Friday with a very racy post following her shock split from Channing Tatum

Showing him what he's missing: Jessie put on a very racy display as the camera panned down her body

She looked perfectly content as the camera panned down her body and she wore a big smile on her face.

Jessie simply wrote the word 'happy' in the comments section, hours after UsWeekly broke the news that the couple had parted ways weeks ago.

They reported: 'Channing Tatum and Jessie J broke up about a month ago. They are still really close and still good friends.'

Done! Channing and Jessie are reported to have split around a month ago

Wow! Her hair was styled in a sleek up-do with an intricate jewelled design at the front

Stunning: She covered up her leotard with a knotted shirt over the top

People added that there was not one main trigger for breaking up: 'There wasn’t any drama. They just decided to part ways.'

Meanwhile, Channing's ex-wife Jenna Dewan is expecting a baby with her beau, theater actor Steve Kazee.

Channing, 39, first started dating the singer, 31, over a year ago.

They seemed to click well: She was called a Jenna Dewan look-alike but it didn't seem to bother them; this is the last time they were photographed together

The People source added: 'Channing and Jessie have different priorities and focuses that don’t really align. They had a fun relationship, but it just didn’t work out. Channing needs to be in LA a lot so he can spend time with Everly. Jessie prefers England.'

Her last Instagram post was from the Netherlands where she was all dolled up: 'Last show of the decade for me last night.

'To say I’m grateful to still do what I love is an understatement. When I think about what I have been through, what I have achieved and how you have all rocked with me in the past 10 years. Woof. Tears.'

And he was last seen in Australia on December 3 for a media call.

A strong bond: They were often seen together out in public and he regularly attended her concerts; seen in March in London after leaving Harvey Nichols

They were often seen together out in public and he regularly attended her concerts.

Last year he gushed about her on social media: 'This woman just poured her heart out on stage at the Royal Albert Hall. Whoever was there got to witness something special. Wow.'

The Magic Mike star shocked fans in May when he shared a photo of himself with no clothing on claiming it was Jessie's fault.

About last night: Her last Instagram post was from the Netherlands where she was all dolled up: 'Last show of the decade for me last night

At work: And he was last seen in Australia on December 3 for a media call

He had his hands cover his private parts.

'I lost a game of Jenga to Jessica Cornish,' he said, using the songbird's birth name.

'The loser (me) had to post a picture the other person (Jessica Cornish) picked… Smh and fml… I’m never playing Jenga with her ever again.'

Tatum and Dewan, 39, split in April 2018 after nine years of marriage. They co-parent their daughter Everly, aged six.

His ex: Tatum and Dewan, 39, split in April 2018 after nine years of marriage. They co-parent their daughter Everly, aged six; seen in 2015

And baby makes three: Here they are seen with Everly in Studio City, California in 2014

She is due with her second child in 2020.

In September the couple told People, 'We are beyond overjoyed and couldn’t be happier to be expanding our family!'

In February he said of his lady love: 'Somehow, inexplicably, I’ve been granted the honor to have this be the person that I get to be side by side with throughout this wild journey we call life. Jenna I don’t know what I did to deserve your love but I will always be so thankful that our lives found their way to each other. Here’s looking at you, kid.'