A family who were left homeless after a fire gutted their flat have been given their own Christmas miracle after firefighters brought their cat Nala back to life in Scotland.

Meanwhile three fire crew gave four kittens oxygen masks after saving them from a kitchen fire caused by an incense burner in Birmingham, two days later.

Shannon Johnston, 20, was at work when she received a call telling her an electrical blaze had ravaged her home in Leith, Edinburgh, at 7.45am on December 17.

Support worker Shannon Johnston (pictured with Nala), 20, was on the way to work when she was called by a neighbour who told her an electrical blaze had ravaged her home in Leith, Edinburgh, at 7.45am on December 17. Her little kitty had been shut in the living room accidentally by Shannon's mother Ruth Geraghty

The support worker urged her neighbours to tell the firefighters that her two-year-old cat Nala was still inside.

The fire, thought to have been started by a faulty electric plug, completely destroyed the kitchen and living room while the rest of the flat, owned by Port of Leith Housing Association, was badly damaged.

Nala was discovered unconscious and dedicated firefighters battled for 30 minutes to resuscitate her.

Shannon described the moment as a 'miracle' and believed her father Kevin, who died nearly three years ago, was watching over the family.

Shannon who was left homeless after an electrical blaze ravaged her property in Leigh, Scotland, has said her father is watching her as her cat was brought back to life after 30-minute CPR

The animal lover said Nala is 'totally fine' but is keeping an eye on her just in case.

Shannon's mother, Ruth Geraghty, 40, had closed the living room door which would normally be left open to allow Nala free reign of the flat.

But this saved the rest of the home from being destroyed, according to firefighters.

Shannon said: 'Everyone says Dad was looking out for us. I think he's looking out for us and making sure we're safe.'

Ruth and her two daughters, Shannon and Jasmine, 18, are now living with Shannon's best pal.

The firefighters (pictured) initially believed the blaze may have been started by Christmas tree lights but now think it was caused by a faulty electrical plug

Shannon said: 'One of our neighbours was in tears when he saw Nala clinging on to me, wrapped in a little blanket.

'Watch commander Robbie Higgins, from Marionville Community Fire Station said the little kitty was administered oxygen and was back on her feet 'albeit groggy and confused'.

The family have been offered temporary accommodation by the housing association over Christmas, while the flat is made habitable again.

Shannon said: 'Obviously it has been really stressful and manic but we are trying to stay positive.

'Firefighters initially thought the fire started from Christmas tree lights but now they think it was from an electrical plug.

'A lot of people have been saying come and stay for Christmas.'

And now Shannon is urging people to avoid leaving Christmas lights on.

Four kittens were saved from a house fire caused by an over-heated and unattended incense burner in Balsall Heath, Birmingham, on December 17. West Midlands Fire Service attached oxygen masks to the little kitties found in the property's kitchen

Meanwhile four kittens were pictured wearing oxygen masks after being saved from a kitchen fire caused by an over-heated incense burner in Balsall Heath, Birmingham.

Three fire crews found the kitties choking as smoke filled the property's kitchen on December 19.

Pictures shows the kittens recovering with oxygen from the masks, specifically designed to help pets, before being petted by the grinning rescuers.

Writing on Twitter, a West Midlands Fire Service spokesperson said: 'Well done to HighgateFire and Bournbrookfire who rescued these 4 little darlings from a kitchen fire last night.

'They treated them with helpsmokeypaws masks and put them in care of RSPCA-official. Cause was an unattended incense burner. NEVER leave burning items unattended.

A fundraising page to help Shannon Johnston has raised more than £1,000.