With Thiago Motta facing a real fight to save his job at Genoa after just nine games in charge, a trip to face his former side Inter Milan at the San Siro this weekend is unlikely to have lightened the mood.

Inter are playing an exciting brand of football and will be motivated to return to the top of Serie A having seen Juventus pull ahead with a midweek win against Genoa's rivals Sampdoria.

And so Inter, at home, with something to play for. For Motta and his Genoa players, they could be on for a hiding if they are not careful.

Thiago Motta is at risk of being sacked if Genoa do not get a positive result away to Inter Milan

Motta has fond memories at the San Siro having been part of the 2009-10 Treble-winning side

RESULTS UNDER THIAGO MOTTA Genoa 3-1 Brescia Juventus 2-1 Genoa Genoa 0-1 Udinese Napoli 0-0 Genoa SPAL 1-1 Genoa Genoa 3-2 Ascoli (Coppa Italia) Genoa 0-1 Torino Lecce 2-2 Genoa Genoa 0-1 Sampdoria

On the face of it, nine games is far too short a reign for an inexperienced manager to fully imprint his ideas on a squad bereft of confidence following a poor start under Aurelio Andreazzoli.

But the Italian top-flight is no place for passengers. Seven sackings already have shown that.

And so Motta has to get a result - even with the odds stacked against his side - at the San Siro to avoid being handed his P45 come Monday morning.

It all started so promisingly for the former Inter, Barcelona and Paris Saint-Germain midfielder with a win in his first game.

Genoa looked to have arrested their slump by putting three past Brescia at the Stadio Luigi Ferraris.

Sandro Tonali netted a stunning free-kick from distance for Brescia to make it 1-0 but Motta's men soon rallied and kick-started the new regime with a win after goals from Kevin Agudelo, Christian Kouame and Goran Pandev.

Defeat to Sampdoria in the Derby della Lanterna ramped up pressure around Motta's position

But ultimately that was to be the last three points Motta or his players would celebrate.

They looked the part away to champions Juventus, only to concede a 96th minute Cristiano Ronaldo penalty. They went to crisis club Napoli and got a draw. They went 2-0 up against Lecce before leaving with nine men and just one point, rather than three.

And then came the Derby della Lanterna. Perhaps Motta's biggest game as a coach to date with both clubs stuck in a relegation battle. And while he felt his side were hard done by, they lost to the side who share the stadium with them and are left 19th, with just 11 points from 16 games.

On the face of it they go to Inter with too many scary statistics to predict them getting any sort of result.

With 31 goals conceded so far, no side has proved leakier at the back than Genoa and when compared to Inter - the meanest defence in the league with just 14 conceded - Motta will need to produce a tactical masterclass to flip the script.

Romelu Lukaku (right) and Lautaro Martinez (left) will relish playing Genoa's leaky defence

Romelu Lukaku and Lautaro Martinez will have been licking their lips this week at the thought of taking on this Genoa defence.

Motta should be returning to Inter with fond memories, having played a key role in the Treble-winning 2009-10 season, but instead he will arrive filled with dread at the prospect of losing his job.

The 37-year-old wanted a shot at the big time as a manager and got it, now he must deliver with all eyes on him and put a major dent in his old side's title bid.

GATTUSO NEEDS TO KEEP DREAM ALIVE

SERIE A FIXTURES FRIDAY Fiorentina vs Roma (7.45pm KO) SATURDAY Udinese vs Cagliari (2pm) Inter Milan vs Genoa (5pm) Torino vs SPAL (7.45pm) SUNDAY Atalanta vs Milan (11.30am) Leece vs Bologna (2pm) Parma vs Brescia (2pm) Sassuolo vs Napoli (7.45pm) All KO times are UK time

Defeat to Parma can fall under the 'teething problems' category for Napoli boss Gennaro Gattuso.

But fail to beat Sassuolo on Sunday night and he won't have to wait long to feel the wrath of a passionate Neapolitan support.

Napoli have slipped to eighth in Serie A and are 11 points off the top four. Missing out on the Champions League is not an option for president Aurelio De Laurentiis - hence the sacking of Carlo Ancelotti.

The Christmas dinner this week came under a cloud of unrest at the club before Gattuso's arrival.

Issues between De Laurentiis and the players have overshadowed what has been a bitterly disappointing domestic campaign on the pitch.

But Gattuso took the job believing in the quality at his disposal and starting on Sunday, he needs to turn his motivational speeches into tangible results.

Napoli could drop into the bottom half if they lose away to Sassuolo on Sunday evening

'This is not a good period, but we have to keep our heads held high, because we have the attributes to get us back in the right place,' he told players at their Christmas dinner.

'We have the capacity to get out of this moment, out of this situation. We must resolve all the other problems at the club.

'I hope to get in your heads soon, because this is a place that deserves so much. This shirt is important and many of you have already written some important chapters here. We have to get out of it, I believe in everyone of us, you are strong, and if I'm here, it's not for the money.'

Sassuolo are no pushover and victory for Roberto De Zerbi's side will take them above Napoli in the standings. Gattuso and his players risk finishing the weekend in the bottom half.

It is now or never for Napoli because while the top four gap is 11 points, another defeat could soon have them looking down, rather than up.

Gennaro Gattuso will want to get a win sooner rather than later as he tries to lift a deflated side

PARMA ON THE EUROPEAN EXPRESS

There is always one side who sneaks beneath the radar and this season Parma are going about their business without much fuss as they look to gatecrash the top six.

With attacking midfielder Dejan Kulusevski among the star's of the division this season and Arsenal reject Gervinho firing on all fronts in attack, Roberto D'Aversa's side are quietly confident of breaking up the status quo.

Back-to-back wins on the road showed different qualities. They were scrappy and fought for a 1-0 win over lowly Sampdoria before leaving it late at the Stadio San Paolo to ruin Gattuso's welcome party with a 2-1 victory.

Roberto Donadoni guided the club to a sixth-placed finish in 2014 but a return to the Europa League for the first time since 2007 was axed due to an issue over taxation on salaries. All the hard work had ultimately been for nothing.

Financial issues continued, they were reborn in 2015 and having fought back to the top flight, their house is in order and they are ready to end their 12-year wait for European football.

Brescia look to be strong candidates for an immediate return to Serie B and with Parma now becoming favourites in more and more games, they won't be flying below the radar for much longer.

Gervinho (left) is playing a key role as Parma look to end a 12-year wait for European football

ELSEWHERE...

There is a Friday night cracker in Florence as Fiorentina welcome top-four candidates Roma.

Viola boss Vincenzo Montella is another finding himself under crippling pressure with the club just four points above the drop zone after six league games without a win.

Roma, on the other hand, have travelled well in recent weeks with a 3-1 away win at Hellas Verona followed up by a point at the San Siro against Inter.

Victory for Roma would increase the pressure on their top four rivals Atalanta as Gian Piero Gasperini's side take on AC Milan in Bergamo.

Atalanta are four adrift of Roma, who sit fourth, having fallen to a surprise defeat away at Bologna.

They have home comfort this time round and Milan marooned in mid-table, the hosts will firmly be expected to make a swift return to winning ways.

For Bologna, Sinisa Mihajlovic will want his side to prove victory over Atalanta was not a flash in the pan and given they will go into the weekend trip to lowly Lecce as favourites, it brings a different kind of pressure.