The French top-flight takes a winter rest after the latest round of fixtures and Paris Saint-Germain won't be caught at the summit - but Marseille will be aiming to stay in touch, just.

Andre Villas-Boas' side did threaten a title race a few weeks ago but the Paris giants remain seven points clear with a game in hand after Marseille's slip at Metz last time out.

Villas-Boas' primary objective was a top-three finish and he'll go into the winter break on track.

Andre Villas-Boas' Marseille have capitalised on slip-ups from opponents in the race for Europe

Marseille and PSG have lost just three games each this campaign, but it is the league leaders' enviable determination to grind out results despite occasional below-par showings that sees them once again sitting pretty at the top.

Marseille have been forced to settle for a share of the spoils against Nantes, Montpellier, Dijon, Rennes and more recently Metz, and it is these errant displays that have so far proved to be the difference in the race for top spot.

But after missing out on the top four last term under predecessor Rudi Garcia, who was handed the reins at Lyon in October, it would be fair to surmise that Marseille are currently defying expectations by racing so far ahead in the shootout for European football.

Paris Saint-Germain's ruthless form has carried Thomas Tuchel's men to the summit again

The club are blessed with an array of attacking talent, with Dario Benedetto and Dimitri Payet so often proving themselves as Marseille's goal scoring heroes. The latter has registered three assists in top flight action this campaign, adding an extra dimension to Villas-Boas' free-scoring side.

But the Portuguese may also rightly be concerned with his porous back line. Marseille have shipped 20 goals this season, although understandably this doesn't appear like a particularly large amount in the wider context of the division.

With challengers Rennes, Lille and Nantes all conceding less, Villas-Boas will likely be focused on solidifying his side's defence to further fend off competition for second spot.

However, Marseille have been presented with another superb chance to further establish their European credentials, and perhaps even bolster their goals-scored column. With a home clash against lowly Nimes on the horizon, they will be aiming to pile the pressure on PSG.

However, Villas-Boas will be without Florian Thauvin again, after the winger underwent ankle surgery in September, and Kevin Strootman will also be suspended after collecting too many yellow cards.

The visitors have no fresh injury concerns ahead of the crucial showdown.

Dimitri Payet has starred for Marseille this season with the club currently flying high in second

Bernard Blaquart steered the strugglers to a ninth-place finish last term, but the 62-year-old's outfit are now five points adrift of safety and without a win in their last 11 league outings.

The club, based in the south of France in the Occitanie region, will be on the hunt for a result that holds the potential to reverse their ailing fortunes.

With both clubs having firmly set their sights on contrasting objectives, this clash promises entertainment. But with Marseille continuing to march on amid an impressive unbeaten streak, it will likely be Villas-Boas' men who emerge victorious in their quest to compete against the continent's finest next season.

The 42-year-old finally appears to have stamped his identity on the top-three hopefuls, promising one of the tightest Champions League races in recent history.

ELSEWHERE THIS WEEKEND…

Dijon host Metz with just one point separating the two faltering sides. The former clinched a surprise victory against high-flying Rennes in late November, but have been unable to replicate that performance since and are consequently languishing in 16th. Their opponents lie in the relegation play-off spot.

Patrick Vieira's Nice will be hoping to find consistency against Toulouse, with the Arsenal legend's side struggling to embark on a strong run of form to propel themselves up the table. Basement side Toulouse will be aiming to collect just their fourth victory of the season when they travel to the Allianz Riviera.

Nice have struggled for consistency under boss Patrick Vieira and face Toulouse on Saturday

Two clubs hoping to hoist themselves out of mid-table obscurity are Strasbourg and St Etienne, who also face each other on Saturday. The former have collected three victories from their last five games and approach the clash in the better form, and St Etienne may be found guilty of still reeling from their demolition at the hands of PSG.

Christian Gourcuff's Nantes are a surprise European contender this campaign, and lie just six points behind second-placed Marseille. They will entertain Angers in the hope of prolonging their bid for a top-four spot and the visitors will bid to arrest their poor form, after failing to record a victory in their last four league fixtures.

Still struggling for consistency since the return of boss Leonardo Jardim, Monaco will host Lille, who were recently eliminated from the Champions League after propping up Group H. But Christophe Galtier's men continue to match their heroics from last season and are certain to pose a tough challenge at the Stade Louis II.

Stade Reims are unbeaten in their last five domestic outings, including recent back-to-back victories, and will welcome Lyon. Rudi Garcia has guided the visitors through to the first knockout round of the Champions League, but suffered yet another setback after the news that both Memphis Depay and Jeff Reine-Adelaide ruptured their anterior cruciate ligaments during the club's 1-0 defeat against Rennes. Both stars are expected to miss at least the next six months of action.

Lyon's Memphis Depay is expected to miss at least six months after rupturing an ACL in action

PSG will be targeting yet another victory on Saturday and host struggling Amiens. Boss Tuchel could even be tempted to shuffle his ranks ahead of the division's Christmas break, and following the champions' emphatic 4-0 win at St Etienne. The visitors to the Parc des Princes have shipped 12 goals in their last four league clashes, and will be hoping to avoid yet another demolition against the leaders.

Fourth placed Rennes could stretch their winning streak to five games against Bordeaux at Roazhon Park. After bettering Lyon, Angers, Metz and St Etienne across the course of the last month, Julien Stephan's men could even overtake Lille if results go their way. Bordeaux, meanwhile, will be looking to replicate their formidable form in front of goal after a 6-0 victory against Nimes earlier this month.

The weekend's action is rounded off with Montpellier's clash against Brest. With the prospect of rising up the ranks at stake, the two sides will clash at the Stade de la Mosson in the hopes of returning to winning ways. Both clubs are without a victory in their previous two games and have endured unremarkable starts to the campaign.