With the winter break approaching, the Bundesliga's final round of pre-Christmas games take on added importance.

A big weekend of fixtures lies ahead, with Borussia Dortmund handed the opportunity to steal an early march on their rivals and get their title charge back on track.

High-flying Leipzig host a resurgent Augsburg, while Bayern Munich negotiate a tricky clash with Wolfsburg in order to avoid falling further off the pace. Sportsmail takes a look at the fixtures ahead.

Friday

Hoffenheim vs Dortmund

7.30pm, BT Sport 3

The weekend gets off to an early start, as Borussia Dortmund look to steal a march on their rivals and pick up a win to both make a statement and get their title hopes back on track.

Standing in their way is a Hoffenheim side who have won just once in their last five domestic ties.

There are encouraging signs for Dortmund, who extended their unbeaten run to six competitive matches after going toe-to-toe with Bundesliga leaders RB Leipzig in a six-goal thriller on Tuesday, which ended in a 3-3 draw.

Dortmund players pile onto Jadon Sancho after yet another goal - now eight in his last seven

Teen sensation Jadon Sancho has eight goals in his last seven consecutive matches, but Dortmund are sweating on his fitness and availability for this tie. Captain Marco Reus is certainly out, after tearing a muscle recently in training.

Victory for Lucien Favre's Dortmund would see them leapfrog rivals Bayern Munich in third place by three points. They would sit on 33, just one adrift of joint leaders Leipzig and Monchengladbach, who each play on Saturday.

Saturday

Bayern vs Wolfsburg

2.30pm

Bayern Munich have won their last two on the spin, and host a Wolfsburg side experiencing indifferent fortunes.

Robert Lewandowski is still scoring goals for fun and is well on course to reaching 20 league goals before the winter break, a feat not managed since Gerd Muller did so in 1977-78.

The potent Polish forward will be licking his lips at the prospect of facing Wolfsburg therefore, with a record of 20 goals and seven assists in 17 league games against the men in green.

He will, however, undergo groin surgery straight after the game, which is expected to keep him out of action for up to 14 days.

Bayern Munich find themselves some four points off the pace but still have the summit in sight

Manager Oliver Glasner's move to a four-man defence has seen Wolsfburg pick up four points from home games against high-flying Monchengladbach and Schalke.

Wide-men Joao Victor and Josip Brekalo may have more defensive roles as Wolfsburg go in search of a first-ever win away at Bayern in the Bundesliga.

Javi Martinez returns from suspension for Bayern and is expected to slot back into the centre of defence. Thiago Alcantara is suspended while both Leon Goretzka and Corentin Tolisso are doubts.

Hertha Berlin vs Monchengladbach

5.30pm, BT Sport 2

After winning their last two matches against Bayer Leverkusen and Freiburg, Hertha will feel they can cause an upset in the title race here.

Unlikely candidates Monchengladbach have defied all critics so far by keeping pace with the big guns, though it will be a stern test to see if they can last the duration of the campaign.

Hertha will be without Liverpool loanee Marko Grujic, who sits this one out due to suspension. The youngster has made a huge impression during his spell in the German capital, and will be a big loss in midfield.

Gladbach boss Marco Rose rang the changes recently but could take a risk by reverting back

Gladbach boss Marco Rose rang the changes for his side's recent 2-0 win over Paderborn, but is expected to revert back.

Full-backs Stefan Lainer and Ramy Bensebaini, midfield pair Laszlo Benes and Christoph Kramer, and strikers Breel Embolo and Marcus Thuram made way following the agonising defeat by Wolfsburg last weekend, but all are prepared to slot back into the starting line-up in Berlin. The frequent changes could pay dividends, or perhaps backfire.

RB Leipzig vs Augsburg

2.30pm

Leipzig will know the pressure is on to win this one, but in Augsburg they have visitors who have won their last three matches and previous four out of five.

The form of Timo Werner could be vital. The Leipzig hitman scored twice to take his overall tally for the campaign to 18 as the Bundesliga leaders recently pulled off an emphatic comeback against Dortmund.

Timo Werner's goals have been instrumental in firing Leipzig to the top of the table so far

Roma loanee Patrik Schick is expected to get the nod over Yussuf Poulsen, while Christopher Nkunku could come in for Emil Forsberg after replacing the Swede at half-time against Dortmund.

Augsburg will be almost full strength, but will be without influential midfielder Rani Khedira who is suspended after recently collecting his fifth yellow card of the campaign.

Schalke vs Freiburg

2.30pm

The Bundesliga's surprise package of the season so far, Freiburg trail Schalke by four points in sixth and will really fancy their chances.

Christian Streich's men have already pulled off some big results this season, having taken a point from Dortmund and turned over league leaders Leipzig.

Freiburg were recently on course for an important draw with Bayern, before two late goals

The continued absence of first-choice goalkeeper Alexander Schwolow and Germany striker Luca Waldschmidt hasn't helped Freiburg's recent run which has seen them lose successive Bundesliga matches for the first time in 2019-20.

They are expected to be unchanged from the side who were narrowly beaten late on by Bayern Munich last week, while Schalke are at full strength.

The rest

Cologne and Werder Bremen will battle it out in a potential relegation six-pointer, with both sides languishing in 15th and 16th place respectively. Points will be a must, though the nerves could press either side into being too conservative.

Bayer Leverkusen will feel they have the beating of Mainz, despite losing their last two matches in succession. Victory for them would keep their top four hopes alive, but they must take points from an away trip to do so.

Sunday's two fixtures see Union Berlin take on relegation-stricken Fortuna, who sit in the relegation zone and are winless in five.

Bottom of the table Paderborn lock horns with Eintracht Frankfurt, who despite featuring in the Europa League have fallen badly off the pace in domestic matters. They sit just four points above the drop zone after 16 matches played.