China has opened more than 27,000 'football-specialised schools' to give training of the sport to children in hope of winning the World Cup one day.

Nearly 30 million elementary and secondary school pupils now receive one football lesson per week after the populous nation launched a so-called 'football revolution' on campus in 2014, an official from the Ministry of Education said today.

The authority is also aiming to build 6,000 'football-specialised kindergartens' this and next year to offer practice sessions to boys as young as three.

About 27 million Chinese children receive one football lesson a week. They are also required to attend 'systematic' football training and play for their class team in games (file photo)

Football is a compulsory part of China's national curriculum with dedicated textbooks (above)

China's President Xi Jinping is a lifelong fan of the sport and wants his country to qualify for, host and win the World Cup.

Football is a compulsory part of the national curriculum in Chinese schools, and the 'football-specialised schools' - 27,059 in total - are situated across the nation.

They are selected and converted from the nation's 380,000 elementary and secondary schools, and can provide training to approximately 27 million boys and girls, the Ministry of Education announced at a press conference today.

China's President Xi is a lifelong football fan. The leader, who was China's Vice-President at the time, is seen in the picture kicking a football during a 2012 visit to Croke Park in Dublin, Ireland

President Xi and David Cameron took a selfie with Man City star Sergio Aguero in 2015

According to Wang Dengfeng, head of the education bureau for sports, hygiene and arts in the Ministry, these schools are instructed to offer one football lesson per week as well as systematic football training to their students.

They are also required to organise football matches between different classes.

Mr Wang said five years of 'campus football revolution' had brought a 'qualitative change' to pupils' football skills.

In the past four years, China has trained more than 40,000 football teachers, including 800 who obtained the Coaching C or D Licence from the Football Association in England, Mr Wang said in July.

The country has poured billions into its Super League, its equivalent to the Premier League. Pictured, Guangzhou Evergrande's Paulinho (right) fights for the ball with Shanghai Shenhua's Peng Xinli during a match in Guangzhou, China's Guangdong Province, on December 1

Players of Guangzhou Evergrande lift up their head coach Fabio Cannavaro as they celebrate after defeating Shanghai Shenhua to win the Super League championship on December 1

More than 120,000 football pitches had been built at schools by September last year and an extra 29,000 are set to be built by the end of 2020.

The sport is an option for students in the nation's notoriously difficult university entrance exam.

The idea behind this is that parents will be happier to let their children play where they have previously been reluctant on the basis they were wasting valuable time which could be spent studying.

Textbooks have also been published to teach children them how to play the game.

President Xi takes a tour of Manchester City's training set-up during his visit to the UK in 2015

China's President Xi has been a football fan since he played for his school team as a youngster.

He dreams his country will again qualify for a World Cup, will have the opportunity to host the tournament and, most optimistically, will one day win it.

The leader wants to avoid any more days like June 15 in 2013, his 60th birthday, when his men's team were thrashed 1-5 by a Thai youth team despite the fact they were playing at home in Hefei, Anhui province.

The Chinese men's national football team, currently ranking 76th internationally, has appeared in the FIFA World Cup only once - in 2002 when the tournament was held in neighbouring Japan and South Korea. They were knocked out after failing to score.

Its female national football team won the second place of the 1999 FIFA Women's World Cup, losing to the host country, the United States.

Since President Xi came into power in 2012, the country has poured billions into its Super League, the Chinese equivalent to the Premier League, with clubs signing world-class players like never before.

Players who have headed to the Far East from the Premier League include Brazilian star Oscar formerly of Chelsea and Argentinean Carlos Tevez who played for Manchester City.

This year, China granted citizenship to two Brazilian players, midfielders Elkeson de Oliveira Cardoso and Ricardo Goulart Pereira, in hope for them to represent the nation in the World Cup qualifying matches next year.