FIFA is considering a proposal to stage the Women's World Cup every two years in an effort to capitalize on, and encourage, the sport's growing popularity.

The competition is currently held every four years, with the Americans lifting the trophy in 2015 and again this July in France.

As FIFA President Gianni Infantino said Friday, he is keen on a proposal from the French federation to double the frequency of the Women's World Cup because of its 'incredible impact for the development of the game' compared to club soccer.

'We need to see what kind of big events we can create,' Infantino said. 'So we are studying this of course.'

FIFA says the United States' 2-0 win over the Netherlands in Lyon, France, reached 263.62 million viewers for at least one minute of action. The average audience was 82.18 million

It's believed that international play does more to promote the women's game than club teams

FIFA has already decided to expand the Women's World Cup from 24 to 32 teams in 2023. The host of that tournament will be decided in June by the FIFA Council.

FIFA has received bids from Brazil, Japan, Colombia and a joint entry from Australia and New Zealand.

The sudden interest in women's soccer is not a surprise, given the ratings bonanza that was the 2019 World Cup.

As FIFA President Gianni Infantino said Friday, he is keen on a proposal from the French federation to double the frequency of the Women's World Cup because of its 'incredible impact for the development of the game' compared to club soccer

FIFA research says the final drew an average audience of 82.18 million in-home viewers — 56 percent more than the 2015 title game.

Furthermore, FIFA says the United States' 2-0 win over the Netherlands in Lyon, France, reached 263.62 million viewers for at least one minute of action.

The total audience reached for the tournament was 993.5 million people, although that figure spikes to 1.12 billion when digital media audiences are included.

Global average in-home audience is the gold standard of verified viewers for a full broadcast. It was 15.29 million in the United States and 5.48 million in the Netherlands.

FIFA research says a bigger audience than the 2015 final — a 5-2 win for the Americans over Japan in Vancouver, Canada — could have been more but for the time zone being less favorable for American viewers, and the Dutch market being smaller than Japan.

But while the U.S. may have been the tournament's best team, the biggest audience belonged to China, which had 342 million viewers watching the World Cup.