Super agent Mino Raiola has stressed his client Paul Pogba is not looking for a way out at Manchester United - but called on the club to form a clear identity that he can be a part of.

The French World Cup winner has been heavily linked with the exit door at Old Trafford for the last year, with United dropping out of the Champions League and failing to offer a bid for the trophies Pogba craves.

But his agent Raiola insists the 26-year-old is content in Manchester and believes he can be successful at the club - adding that he 'chose with his heart' when he opted to return to United in 2016.

Paul Pogba believes in the project at Manchester United and is targeting trophies at the club

Raiola moved to quash rumours that Pogba is seeking a transfer from the club after months of intense speculation linking him with a move to Real Madrid.

Speaking to the Telegraph, he said: 'I think that Paul really went home. Paul could have gone elsewhere. But he really chose with his heart, to go home. Paul is a very, very nice person.

'Paul wants to be successful and happy and wants to win prizes and he would love to do that with Manchester United.'

The former Juventus midfielder was said to be a top target for Zinedine Zidane last summer but a move failed to materialise, with United unwilling to let go of their star man, and now the player is targeting lofty ambitions at the club.

Raiola, who also represents other superstars such as Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Gianluigi Donnarumma and Romelu Lukaku, conceded that Pogba's failure to move to Los Blancos would have been a good fit, as the Frenchman would have linked up with his compatriot Zidane.

Agent Mino Raiola says Pogba wants to stay at United, but urged the club to form an identity

Real Madrid were keen on signing the French star but Manchester United have refused to sell

'Okay there was big interest from Real Madrid and Manchester [United] didn't let him go,' he said. 'We didn't make a fuss about it and he didn't make a fuss about it because I work in accordance with the player.'

'You know other players can bring things to extreme but Paul doesn't like that. So you work differently. There was an interest from Real Madrid but they [United] didn't let him go, and I'm sorry because I think that Paul being French then [Zinedine] Zidane is an important factor in French football history.'

His manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer reaffirmed the club's stance on Pogba's future, ruling out the possibility of him being sold in January.

With Pogba set to commit his immediate future to the club, it is hoped the star can produce the performances United expect of him after watching him dazzle in Serie A for a number of years.

Raiola, who has a list of superstar clients, admits a Real Madrid move would have suited Pogba

The Frenchman has been doing his best to get back to fitness and return to the pitch for United

But his agent feels that there must first be a clear vision for the first team so that he can thrive in the centre of the park - citing Sir Alex Ferguson's iconic style that saw 13 Premier League trophies arrive at the club.

Raiola said: 'At least when Ferguson was there you saw it was his team – the way they played, pro-active, and the players that came in came in with an eye on how to play that game.

'Is there a better midfielder [than Pogba] in the world? No! If you come to that conclusion then the other conclusion is - now if you sell Paul Pogba would you buy a better one? No! Where is he? But if you create your identity then maybe you discover that Paul is ideal. If you, say, want to play with two holding midfielders then where does Paul play? In several positions.

'So I say, make your identity of what you want your club to be and then find the "Lego" parts for it. You need that clarity. A big club chooses the system and then chooses the players.'

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has ruled out the possibility of Paul Pogba leaving the club in January

Pogba has suffered with an ankle injury this season but he is keen to return and help the team

Pogba's season so far has been blighted by injury and controversy as he attempts to get back on the pitch to help his team-mates, who are enduring an uneven campaign as the look to push their way into the top four.

He suffered an ankle injury blow against Arsenal in September and has not played since, but has uploaded a number of social media posts teasing fans that he is on the verge of a return.

The midfielder has been seen on an exercise bike, throwing medicine balls and hitting the battle ropes as aims to prove his fitness, but a return to the team has not been forthcoming.

His return to the side was even delayed further after he was struck down with illness - before being filmed dancing at his brothers wedding just hours after he was ruled out.