A husband and wife have spoken of their devastation after they returned from a family funeral to discover their home had been destroyed by bushfire.

Sharon and Steve Jackson were burying his mother when they received alerts their property in the New South Wales Southern Highlands was under threat from the raging Green Wattle Creek 'megafire'.

Mrs Jackson and her eldest son flew home in a desperate bid to save their Buxton property but could only watch as the out-of-control fire destroyed their home.

The Jacksons' two-storey property - which was home to nine people - is one of at least 40 in the town and surrounding area lost to the blaze on Thursday.

'Me and my eldest son came flying home, and next thing I know, coming up through here, we saw flames,' Mrs Jackson told A Current Affair.

'I went to let me animals out and I turned around and behind us the paddock was on fire.'

Three fire trucks rushed to the scene of the ablaze home, but were unable to save the home or the couple's five vehicles.

The couple say they do not know where they will live now their home has been razed to the ground.

Sharon said her sister lives at nearby Tahmoor, but she is about to give birth and has been evacuated as the 149,000 megafire tears through the region.

Sharon and Steve Jackson were burying his mother when they were alerted to the threat to their home in NSW's Southern Highlands

Three fire trucks rushed to the scene of the ablaze home, but were unable to save the home or the couple's five vehicles

'We live in the unknown - I've never been through anything like this before. I don't know what to do next,' Mrs Jackson said.

She hit out at fire authorities - saying she should have been able to back-burn around her home to prevent the flames from reaching it.

'Let's start thinking logically now because 20 houses in Buxton have gone - we went to the local fire (station) and they said the chances of them getting us to back-burn were basically zilch,' she said.

Buxton was the site of further tragedy on Thursday evening when volunteer firefighters Andrew O'Dwyer, 36, and Geoffrey Keaton, 32, were killed when their truck rolled off the road after hitting a fallen tree.

The couple say they do not know where they will live now their home has been razed to the ground

Their colleagues were seen sharing embraces and wiping away tears at Horsley Park Rural Fire Brigade in Sydney on Friday.

NSW firefighters are bracing for yet another grim day as the thermostat peaks at 47C in Penrith, west Sydney on Saturday and two mega-blazes rage on, sending a cloud of smoke and ash over Sydney.

A total fire ban is in place across New South Wales and catastrophic fire danger warnings are in place for greater Sydney and the surrounding regions.