A Hermes customer has claimed that her Christmas presents burst in to flames after a delivery driver dumped the package in a hot ash bin.

Courtney Ball said that she returned to her grandparents' house in Trusthorpe, Lincolnshire, to find her £75 parcel smouldering in a metal bin near the front door.

The 21-year-old said that it contained her three-year-old son's Christmas presents from JD Sports and that when she went to retrieve the package, it then reacted with the extra oxygen and burst into flames.

Courtney Ball said that she returned to her grandparents' house in Trusthorpe, Lincolnshire, to find her £75 parcel smouldering in a metal bin near the front door

The 21-year-old said that the package contained her three-year-old son's Christmas presents from JD Sports and that when she went to retrieve it, it reacted with the extra oxygen and burst into flames

The goods inside were completely destroyed and to make matters worse Ms Ball says she will now not be able to have the tracksuit and trainers redelivered in time for Christmas.

This will mean that her son, Logan-James, will have no presents to open on the big day.

The furious mother quickly took to social media to make a complaint about the Hermes delivery service.

Courtney Ball (alongside her son Logan-James) says she will now not be able to have the tracksuit and trainers redelivered in time for Christmas

She shared the images alongside the caption: 'Absolute joke I tell you!

'Who in the right frame of mind puts a parcel [in a bin] full of ash... never mind my child's Christmas present.

'Well done to you Hermes. Very lucky we got back when we did!

'I'm now £75 short. And as being a single mum it took me a lot to get these for my boy.

'And now he won't receive them for Christmas nor will be getting a refund til the new year.'

Other social media users were quick to comment on the post.

One said: 'Absolutely disgusting.'

And another added: 'Omg - stupidity is obviously not a word they know.'

Courtney, who said the ashes were from a log burner at her grandparents' home, said today: 'I agreed for it to be left in a safe place.

'My grandparents live in a big house on its own so plenty of safe places for it to be left.

'I got home to notice that the hot ash bin was smoking. I found the card to say where they had left parcel and of course they had decided to leave my parcel in a bin full of hot ash.'

She added: 'My parcel was now starting to burn. As soon as the parcel was taken out of the bin and got in to more oxygen it immediately set alight.

'I'm a single parent that doesn't work at the moment so to us is a lot of money to lose.

'The only thing Hermes have said to me is that it is not their responsibility and is JD's fault but they did this and nobody else.

'So I'm absolutely fuming so I have no present and no money now because of them.'

Hermes has since contacted Ms Ball to organise re-delivery and offer her a £50 voucher in gesture of goodwill

A spokeswoman for Hermes said: 'We would like to apologise to Ms Ball for the inconvenience caused and have been in contact with her to discuss her re-delivery options and to provide a £50 gesture of goodwill.

'We have around 20,000 couriers delivering for us during the busy seasonal period and these kind of incidents are extremely rare.

'In fact, our successful delivery rate is 99 per cent.

'However, we recognise that these incidents are absolutely unacceptable.

'When we are made aware we always take immediate action including retraining.

'We would also urge people to make sure they are available to receive deliveries they have ordered or make alternative arrangements either through our app or via the retailer.'