The Trump family kicked off the holiday season by taking photos with Santa Claus and sharing pictures of their decorative Christmas trees, which includes Trump-themed ornaments.

On Friday, Kimberly Guilfoyle shared family photos from the Trump Christmas Party at Trump Tower in New York.

'So nice celebrating with the hard working and great people who make up TrumpOrg! I hope everyone has a very merry Christmas and blessed New Year!' she wrote in the caption of two photos.

The pictures showed Guilfoyle, her boyfriend, Donald Trump Jr, Eric and Lara Trump, posing with Santa Claus.

The Trump family kicked off the holiday season with several photos with Santa Claus. Eric and Lara Trump (right) are pictured with Donald Trump Jr and his girlfriend, Kimberly Guilfoyle (both left)

'So nice celebrating with the hard working and great people who make up TrumpOrg! I hope everyone has a very merry Christmas and blessed New Year!' Guilfoyle (right) wrote in the caption of two photos

In a separate set of photos, taken last weekend, Eric and Lara are seen posing with Judge Jeanine Pirro on Santa's chair while holding their children, Carolina and Eric Luke Trump. A second photo shows the couple's son laying on the floor (right)

Ivanka shared a photo of her daughter Arabella as she prepared to light the first candle on the menorah on Sunday

Trump Jr shared multiple photos of his Christmas tree that has been decorated with 'Make America Great Again' hat ornaments.

Another image shows presents wrapped in paper featuring President Donald Trump's face, his name and Vice President Mike Pence's name.

'So everyone loved the post that I put up the other day with the Trump wrapping paper and Trump ornaments. To answer all of your questions at once you can get it at the campaign store at DonaldJTrump.com,' Trump Jr wrote in the caption of the photos.

A third image also showed red, white and blue hats placed in the center of the tree as elaborate decorations.

In a separate set of photos, taken last weekend, Eric and Lara are seen posing with Judge Jeanine Pirro on Santa's chair while holding their children, Carolina and Eric Luke Trump.

Meanwhile, Ivanka and her family celebrated the first day of the eight-day Jewish holiday, Hanukkah.

Trump Jr shared multiple photos of his Christmas tree that has been decorated with 'Make America Great Again' hat ornaments

Another image shows presents wrapped in paper featuring President Donald Trump's face, his name and Vice President Mike Pence's name

A third image also showed red, white and blue hats placed in the center of the tree as elaborate decorations

Ivanka shared a photo of her daughter Arabella as she prepared to light the first candle on the menorah on Sunday.

Earlier on Sunday, the president played golf with Rush Limbaugh, his son Eric, and professional golfer Jim Herman, in West Palm Beach.

The president, First Lady Melania Trump and Barron, began their holiday on Friday when they arrived at the Mar-a-Lago resort.

But his holiday travel didn't prevent him from tweeting about his recent impeachment by the House of Representatives, which he termed a 'Democrat hoax'.

Lawmakers who control Trump's fate also left Washington for a holiday break on Friday with no agreement over how they will handle the Senate trial to consider his impeachment charges in January.

Trump stands little chance of being convicted and removed from office by the Republican-controlled Senate, which will weigh the two impeachment charges that were passed on Wednesday by the Democratic-led House of Representatives.

Democrats want to call top Trump aides as witnesses, and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has not yet sent the impeachment package to the Senate, a bid to increase pressure on Republicans in the upper chamber.