Shaun Dyson wiped a tear from his eye as he was today told he will spend a minimum of 17 years in jail for the 'ferocious' onslaught

A jealous husband who demanded his estranged wife swallow her wedding ring before causing her to suffer a 'miserable, wretched and drawn out death' has today been jailed for life.

Controlling Shaun Dyson, 28, repeatedly stamped, kicked and jumped on Lucy-Anne Rushton's body in a 'breathtakingly brutal' attack six months after their 'toxic' relationship ended.

With her children in the house, he ordered the 30-year-old mother-of-five to swallow her wedding ring because they 'were not together anymore', just hours before murdering her in her home in Andover, Hampshire.

Just a week before the killing, Dyson - who a judge said sought to 'control, harass, humiliate and frighten' his ex - also pushed a lemonade bottle into her mouth and left her with a bloody fat lip.

Dyson wiped a tear from his eye as he was today told he will spend a minimum of 17 years in jail for the 'ferocious' onslaught.

Dyson (left) repeatedly stamped, kicked and jumped on the body of Lucy-Anne Rushton (right) in a 'breathtakingly brutal' attack six months after their 'toxic' relationship ended

His 'extremely violent' attack left Ms Rushton with 37 broken ribs, a fractured breastbone and collapsed lungs.

She also had more than 70 bruises and suffered a 'miserable, wretched and drawn out death'.

The victim had been dead for 'some time' before Dyson decided to dial 999, initially claiming she was not breathing and had drowned.

In messages sent to his mistress after the murder, he also claimed Ms Rushton had marks on her neck because 'he choked her during rough sex'.

Dyson, of Andover, maintained he never intended to kill her, denying murder and admitting manslaughter after claiming he 'lost it'.

But he changed his plea part-way through his trial at Winchester Crown Court on Wednesday.

Sentencing, Mr Justice Akhlaq Ur-Rahman Choudhury said: 'The relationship was tainted by regular violence on your part which, I have no doubt, was borne out of your desire to control Lucy and to make her behave in a way you thought appropriate.

'You were wholly intolerant of Lucy having dealings with other men, even after you had separated, and you frequently sought to control, harass, humiliate and frighten her.

The couple married in 2010 when they eloped to Gretna Green but split up in January 2019

'Your jealous, controlling and violent nature which demanded that Lucy could not be with other men, all the while conducting a secret affair yourself, culminated that night in an attack that is breathtaking in its brutality.'

He added: 'The pathologist concluded that the attack was such that Lucy did not suffer a sudden death but a miserable, wretched and drawn out death.'

Dyson is thought to have killed Ms Rushton (above) between 4am and 5.50am on June 23

Dyson is thought to have killed Ms Rushton between 4am and 5.50am on June 23.

The pair were at Ms Rushton's home when he became 'enraged' after she spoke on the phone to a man she had been sleeping with.

A child in the house later heard him telling Ms Rushton to swallow her wedding ring but the victim pretended and put it in her mouth.

The child was then woken up in the early hours of the morning by 'loud noises' and heard Dyson hitting Ms Rushton.

She also saw the defendant, who was in a 'mean mood', fill a jug of water and splash it over the victim who said 'ow in a sad voice'.

Neighbours were also woken by screaming, with one claiming she heard 'no no' before 'it went very quiet'.

Prosecutor Simon Jones said: 'This was a brutal, violent and unlawful attack. The pathologist confirmed that this was a prolonged and very severe beating - repeatedly stamping, jumping and kicking.

Miss Rushton was found dead in her home in Andover, Hampshire, on June 23 this year

'This was a ferocious attack on a vulnerable victim. The pathologist went on to confirm the force required to inflict such force would have been severe, bordering on extreme.'

Mother Myra Simpson recalled seeing her daughter being attacked by Dyson during a FaceTime call - with him threatening to kill his victim if police were called.

The couple got together in 2010 and married four years later after eloping to Gretna Green

She said the killer had taken her beloved daughter's life in the 'most violent way' and 'cruelly snatched' her from her family.

In a statement read to the court, she said: 'As a family, Shaun Dyson has destroyed us, completely broken every single one of us. Our lives will never be the same.

'He has ruined her children's lives forever. They no longer have a mother to watch them grow up, get married and have their own children.

'It's heartbreaking that they will never see their mother again. Our hearts actually ache with pain and sadness that he has taken away our beautiful Lucy.

'No family should have to go through what we are going through. Her children did not deserve to have their mum cruelly snatched away from them. She had her whole life ahead of her.'

Defence barrister Sarah Jones claimed domestic violence in the family home, with children nearby, was not 'entirely' Dyson's fault.

She said: 'The sad truth is, this relationship and of those in this family around it, conducted their frustrations, sadnesses and problems that they had in front of whoever may be present, and if that was the very young, then so be it.

'That was a decision made by both sides and does not fall purely or entirely on the shoulders of Shaun Dyson. It was how he and his extended family has lived.'

Family and friends pleaded with Ms Rushton to leave Dyson (pictured together) sooner, but she refused and declared 'she loved him'

Ms Rushton confided in loved ones about the couple's 'volatile' relationship and was convinced Dyson would end up killing her, jurors were told.

The couple - who got together in 2010 and married four years later after eloping to Gretna Green - frequently argued but had split by the beginning of this year.

Family and friends pleaded with Ms Rushton to leave Dyson sooner, but she refused and declared 'she loved him'.

Sister Lola Simpson recalled receiving a call from the 'hysterical' victim declaring Dyson was 'going to murder her' just one month before she was killed.

Dyson said he had a bag with clothes, petrol and weapons hidden near their home - with Ms Rushton adamant he was going to 'do something bad to her' just three months before she died.

Ms Simpson also told police Dyson strangled her sister until she lost consciousness three years ago and that Ms Rushton wanted to write a will just nine days before she died.

The jury of six men and six women were also shown CCTV footage of Dyson kicking, punching and spitting at Ms Rushton outside Britannia Hotel, Bournemouth, Dorset, last September.

But officers were never made aware of the history of the domestic violence until after Ms Rushton's death.