She dropped eight kilos in time for her televised November wedding.

And Married At First Sight's Jules Robinson showed off her incredible transformation in a series of before and after photos shared to Instagram on Friday.

The 37-year-old, who just tied the knot with her 'TV husband' Cameron Merchant in a legally-binding ceremony, said she was on a 'health mission' prior to the nuptials.

Transformation: MAFS' Jules Robinson, 37, showed off her 8 KILO weight loss, in an Instagram post on Friday. Pictured on the left in August at the 3kg mark, and on the right in December at the 8kg mark

Jules shared a photo of herself in a black one-piece swimsuit in August, where she had lost three kilos at the time.

The brand ambassador compared this to photos taken during her December honeymoon in Vanuatu, where she had dropped a total of eight kilos.

Alongside additional honeymoon pictures of herself in two-piece swimsuits, Jules spoke about her health and fitness journey in the post's caption.

Love looks good on her: Jules shared photos of herself on her December honeymoon in Vanuatu (pictured after her eight kilo weight loss)

Dedicated: 'I made it no secret that I was on a health mission before my wedding,' the brand ambassador told her followers in the post's caption

'I made it no secret that I was on a health mission before my wedding,' she began.

'I can honestly say I've always been comfortable and confident in my own skin, but now I feel all that and healthier and stronger.'

The Channel Nine star told her followers that she's never 'been obsessed with losing a number' on the scales, as 'how you feel' is what's most important.

Body positive: The Channel Nine star has never 'been obsessed with losing a number' on the scales, instead choosing to focus on how she feels

Content: 'I embrace my curves. I love being curvy, and I choose a healthy mind to go with my health choices for the future,' Jules proudly stated online

'Over the past 12 months, somehow I put on 10 kilos,' Jules candidly revealed. 'I can proudly say I've never dressed differently because of a dress size or felt the need to cover up because of what size I am.'

'I embrace my curves. I love being curvy, and I choose a healthy mind to go with my health choices for the future.'

Jules concluded by saying that she's getting her body prepared for motherhood, and all that matters is how she feels.

'I still have cellulite, this is normal, I'm still "fat" in some people's eyes, but that's OK!' she penned.

Televised nuptials: Jules vowed to lose the weight in time for her November televised wedding with Cameron Merchant, 35

How she did it: Jules told New Idea in December, that alongside a Weight Watchers diet (that still includes carbs), she lost the weight with a varied fitness regimen. Pictured with Cameron

'I'm not! I'm proud of me and how I feel about my body is all that matters! Size does not define you!'

Jules told New Idea magazine in December, that alongside a Weight Watchers diet (that still includes carbs), she lost the weight with a varied fitness regimen.

'On the run-up to the wedding, I was seeing my personal trainer, Nat, as often as I could, attending her paddleboarding and boxing on the beach classes too.

'My love of boxing has really grown over the last few months, and I'm much better at it now than when I first started.'