Today's Birthday, December 21: French President Emmanuel Macron (1977 - )

French President Emmanuel Macon rose to power in May 2017, becoming the youngest president in French history at age 39.

Macron was born in Amiens in 1977, where he was raised and educated until his final year of high school, which he completed in Paris.

Macron's parents reportedly sent him away out of concern over his bond with Brigitte Auziere, a married teacher with three children.

Twenty four years his senior, Brigitte, whom Macron met when he was 15, would in 2007 become his wife.

After high school, Macron received master's degrees in public policy and philosophy, before completing further study at the prestigious Ecole Nationale d'Administration.

After his graduation in 2004, he began working as a finance inspector for the French Ministry of Economy and Finance.

Four years later, he switched to the private sector, joining Rothschild & Cie Banque as an investment banker.

After Francois Hollande won the 2012 election, Macron became his deputy chief of staff and economic advisor. By 2014, Hollande had promoted him to finance minister.

In the lead up to the next election, France's poor economic performance and Europe's ongoing migrant crisis bolstered the popularity of nationalist anti-immigrant party National Front and it's leader Marine Le Pen, and saw Hollande's popularity plummet.

Macron began to distance himself from Hollande, and in April 2016 he announced the creation of his "centrist" political movement, La Republique En Marche!.

Macron soon resigned from government, and formally announced his presidency bid in November.

After a campaign in which his opponents were plagued with scandals, Macron defeated his biggest contender, Marine Le Pen, in the second round of voting in May.

He became the first person to win the French presidency without a political party or parliamentary base since the Second World War.

Since taking office, Macron has been a staunch advocate for action on climate change, and a key figure supporting the European Union in the face of anti-EU sentiment.

He has also grappled with appeasing the yellow vest movement, which has seen sometimes violent protests against economic injustice take place across France.