They're hot on the promotional trail for their critically- panned film.

And the cast of Cats and director Tom Hooper took part in a bizarre a skit on The Late Late Show with James Corden on Thursday, which saw Taylor Swift drink milk from a giant saucer.

Taylor was joined by Jennifer Hudson, Rebel Wilson, Jason Derulo and Francesca Hayward and James during the segment, and they had to show off their best feline impression skills to earn the prize for 'best in show'.

Amusing: Taylor Swift joked her Artist Of The Year award would be 'taken away' after she drank milk from a saucer during Cats skit alongside her co-stars on the Late Late Show on Thursday

During the bizarre yet amusing skit, the cast were put through awkward situations, and Taylor, Rebel and Francesca even had to drink from a saucer of milk.

Taylor was drinking from a flask when James asked her what she was doing, and when she claimed she was 'drinking water', he pointed towards the huge saucer of milk and said: 'If you want to drink its over there.'

Distracting him by saying Idris Elba was in another room, Rebel seemingly filled the saucer with alcohol, before the trio crouched beside the dish and lapped up milk.

Making fun of the situation off camera, Taylor claimed: 'I was just recently named artist of the decade, but after people see me lap up milk from that giant saucer I'm pretty sure they'll take that away.'

Bizarre: Rebel seemingly filled the saucer with alcohol, before the trio crouched beside the dish and lapped up milk

Awkward: Making fun of the situation, Taylor claimed: 'I was just named artist of the decade, but after people see me lap up milk from that giant saucer I'm pretty sure they'll take that away'

The cast were all dressed as cats for the segment, as Taylor wore a black hat with cat ears and a matching onesie, while Rebel wore cat ear mufflers, and Francesca and Jennifer also wore cat ears.

Other bizarre parts of the Cats School segment saw the cast crawl through a large cat flap and also do their best 'meows' in front of the camera, while Jason pretended to use a litter box.

The movie adaptation of popular stage musical Cats has been universally savaged by critics, even receiving one reviewer's first ever zero-star rating.

Meow! The cast were all dressed as cats for the segment, as Taylor wore a black hat with cat ears and a matching onesie, while Rebel, Francesca and Jennifer also wore cat ears

Strange: Other bizarre parts of the segment saw the cast crawl through a large cat flap and also do their best 'meows' in front of the camera, while Jason pretended to use a litter box

The film has been branded an 'all-time disaster' by one critic, the film was slammed as 'jarring', 'a huge failure', 'soulless' and just plain 'wrong' by movie buffs on both sides of the Atlantic.

With an estimated $95 million budget it's a worrying portent for a film so long in the making, but the warning signs were already in evident when fans lambasted its first theatrical trailer, with poor animation cited as its number one flaw.

Critics would argue that CGI is the least of its worries, with the Daily Telegraph branding Hooper's film 'an all-time disaster' and giving it the ignominious honour of zero stars - the first in the publication's history.

Cats has been released in cinemas across the UK and USA.