There is a chill in the air that only snuggling down at home in front of a warm fire will resolve.

And while woodburners are still fantastically popular — more than one million UK homes use wood-burning stoves and fireplaces, according to the Stove Industry Alliance — there has been a surge in those seeking eco-friendly substitutes.

'People are looking for an alternative to burning solid fuel on open fires due to environmental concerns,' says Paul Chesney, managing director of Chesneys, the British fireplace firm.

Hot stuff: The White Modern Cylinder Bioethanol stove, £695

Some scientists believe traditional woodburners are more harmful than traffic pollution.

That's because wood-burning produces particulates — tiny, toxic particles that get into the lungs, the blood and even the brain.

The Government's Clean Air Strategy, revealed earlier this year, means only the greenest stoves which release fewer emissions will be sold from 2022 and some fuels such as wet wood, which produces more smoke and releases more particulates — commonly sold on garage forecourts — may be banned.

As a result, the designs and technology behind electric, gas and bioethanol fires — which burn renewable fuel — have improved drastically.

High-end interior designer Elnaz Namaki often uses gas fires — and even has a contemporary model in her own home in Notting Hill. 'A fire makes the space so much cosier and provides a focal point for the room, giving off such a warm light. I always put them in my projects,' she says.

Namaki adds that in an apartment, where space is at a premium, it can be useful to build the fire into joinery (taking care of fire regulations) to integrate it into the room.

TURN UP THE GAS

The most realistic alternative to burning logs and coal is a gas fire. The flames can be turned on at the flick of a remote control, meaning no bending down to start the fire.

Namaki recently worked on a penthouse in Chelsea.

'The client wanted the apartment to have a chalet theme, so I designed a textured slate chimney breast and we installed a modern pebble fireplace with a glass surround,' says Namaki.

Black Wood Bioethanol stove, £595, from Bio Fires

Chesney has a range of contemporary gas fires, while also stocking traditional styles, such as its Alchemy Log Effect fire (£1,295, chesneys.co.uk).

Many gas fireplaces require a chimney and working flue, as well as a gas supply, although the Hambleton flueless gas stove (£695; superiorfires.co.uk) looks and feels like a real woodburner, but only needs a 100cm² air vent installed somewhere in the room.

ECO-FRIENDLY

Bioethanol fires give a live flame, created by burning ethanol, a fuel derived from the fermentation of crops and food waste. It is a renewable and green product.

They are suitable for a wider range of properties, including rental homes, as they do not need a chimney or flue (although you do have to consider ventilation). The chef Rosie Birkett recently put a new bioethanol fire in her rented cottage in Deal, Kent. 'We are so happy with the results. It's the closest thing to a real fire and much greener and cleaner than gas,' she says.

There has been a surge in — particularly younger — customers interested in bio fires. 'Bioethanol fires are eco-friendly, very easy to use, require no or very little installation and are perfect for customers who want a lovely fire without any hassle of woodburning or gas fireplaces,' says Mayleen Trampus, from Bio Fires (biofires.com).

Along with fire baskets and contemporary ribbon burners, you can buy bio fire stoves that look like real log burners — like Rosie's — but without the expense of lining a chimney or the mess of cleaning it out; Trampus says the stoves are the most popular in the collection. 'They're ideal for renting, as they don't require a chimney and you can easily take them with you,' she adds.

Try a Black Wood Burner Style Traditional Bioethanol Stove with Logs (£595; biofires.com) or an EFBXS Bioethanol burner (£930; chesneys.co.uk).

GO ELECTRIC

Electric fires — which produce simulated flames — are low maintenance: you don't need a chimney, or a complicated installation and they are just plugged into a socket. Forget unsightly images of the kind of fire your granny used to have; today's designs look like the real thing, whether you want a modern or traditional design.

'Electric fires have advanced a great deal over the past five years,' says Louis Boothman from the fire company Real Flame. 'Most notably this comes from the movement to LEDs, which drastically dropped the energy consumption as well as being able to provide a far more realistic flame.

'This also gave the ability to provide more interesting and realistic effects with different colour shades and also providing more sleek modern fires as a whole.'

Try the Stockton Electric Stove (£855; realflame.com) for a stove that looks like a log burner, or the Olympus range from Chesneys for minimal log baskets (from £1,105).

All that remains is to buy a nice cosy chair, pour yourself a glass of something and snuggle down for the cold snap.