Former Gogglebox Australia star Wayne Mott has revealed he and partner Tom Walsh are about to become grandparents.

After celebrating his milestone 50th birthday party in Melbourne, the TV star revealed the news to Woman's Day magazine.

Wayne is close to partner Tom's children, with the eldest Jade, 30, announcing she and her partner are going to adopt a child.

Gogglebox Australia couple Wayne Mott (L) and Tom Walsh (R) have revealed they are going to be grandparents in an interview with Woman's Day magazine on Monday

'To be told that on my birthday was one of the best presents I could have been given,' Wayne told the publication.

Wayne is close to Tom's kids Jade, Zac, 28, and Tegan, 25, with him loving the trio like his own.

Wayne has spoken himself about his adoption story, with partner Tom saying he has always told their kids plenty of children need love.

'He always told our kids there are so many children out there in need of love,' Tom said.

'To be told that on my birthday was one of the best presents I could have been given,' Wayne (R) told the publication. Here alongside Tom (L)

He added how proud the pair were that daughter Jade chose to adopt.

'So when Jade said she wanted to give somebody else the love Wayne brought to us, I was never more proud. Sh*t they're good kids!'

It comes as Wayne celebrated his 50th birthday with a star-studded bash at Melbourne's iconic DT's in Richmond.

Star studded: It comes as Wayne celebrated his 50th birthday with his Gogglebox co-stars

The star-studded bash included Neighbours star Sharon Johal, Susie McLean from Real Housewives of Melbourne and beloved entertainer Rhonda Burchmore.

Gogglebox Australia co-stars including Lee and Keith Lee, and siblings Tim and Leanne Lai also attended the bash.

Ensuring the festivities were plenty of fun, hunky topless waiters served mimosa cocktails and shots of peppermint schnapps.

Dancing: The star-studded bash included Neighbours star Sharon Johal, Susie McLean from Real Housewives of Melbourne and beloved entertainer Rhonda Burchmore

Spread: Ensuring the festivities were plenty of fun, hunky topless waiters served mimosa cocktails and shots of peppermint schnapps

The outspoken couple revealed they quit Gogglebox in October 2018, telling Word For Word podcast they only had three episodes left.

'I've had a lot of fun. And I think its just time. Me and Wayne are ready to retire. We're ready to buy a farm and go bush,' he said.

Tom also admitted that even if he were to be offered a salary increase, the pair's time on the show has come to an end and they don't wish to return.

The couple starred on eight seasons of Gogglebox.