She's preparing to take her ex Paul Hollywood to court for £4,000 over her two horse shelters.

But Summer Monteys-Fullam appeared to be partying away her woes as she attended the Off Limits Entertainment Christmas bash at Savage Garden in London on Wednesday night.

The former barmaid, 24, looked fantastic in a white Balmain T-shirt and skinny jeans as she enjoyed her evening out amid the latest drama with her TV star ex, 53.

Partying away her woes: Summer Monteys-Fullam attended the Off Limits Entertainment Christmas bash at Savage Garden in London on Wednesay night

Summer flaunted her toned figure in a pair of blue skinny jeans and added some height to her frame with tan suede boots.

Adding a touch of sparkle, the beauty donned a pair of pretty earrings and a silver necklace as well as a glam watch.

Summer wore her auburn locks perfectly styled into loose curls before applying a touch of blusher and a pink lipstick to accentuate her pretty features.

The beauty's management company also shared a snap of their bash, saying the festive evening the night before had been 'fantastic'.

Party time: The former barmaid, 24, looked fantastic in a white Balmain T-shirt and skinny jeans as she enjoyed her evening out amid the latest drama with her TV star ex Paul Hollywood, 53

Stunning: Summer flaunted her toned figure in a pair of blue skinny jeans and added some height to her frame with tan suede boots

It comes after Summer told MailOnline she's preparing to take Paul to court for £4,000 over her two horse shelters, built at his £800,000 Kent farmhouse earlier in the year.

Summer claimed she'd been left with 'no alternative' but to take legal action against the Bake Off judge four months after they ended their two-year relationship.

She told MailOnline: 'All I have ever wanted was to get back what is rightfully mine - stuff I bought with my own savings... he's punishing my horses with his spite.'

The social media influencer purchased the first stable when she moved her horses to his Grade II listed home in January, and built the second in March for her mare who was pregnant.

Work it: Adding a touch of sparkle, the beauty donned a pair of pretty earrings and a silver necklace as well as a glam watch

Night out: Chris Hughes, Maura Higgins, Kendall Rae Knight and Jack Charles were also seen at the party thrown by their mutual management

'I'm incredibly disappointed that I've had to choose this course of action against Paul', she said. 'Dealing with Paul is a nightmare - everything is done through his lawyers.'

Summer - who dropped a previous lawsuit against Paul in September - also claimed he offered to pay a 'derisory' sum of £1,000 to leave her property on his land.

She also alleged Paul is 'punishing' her animals by not returning the stables, but is not accusing her ex of endorsing animal cruelty.

'This is a very disappointing matter. On top of this, he has no need for the shelters whatsoever and is punishing my horses with his spite.

Exclusive: Summer revealed on Thursday she is gearing up to take ex Paul to court for £4,000 over her two horse shelters, built at his £800,000 Kent house earlier this year (pictured in July)

Ownership: The ex-barmaid purchased the first stable when she moved her horses to his Grade II listed home in January, and built the second (pictured) in March for her pregnant mare

'When we first split up, it was absolutely accepted by him that they were my shelters and I could pick them up at an agreed day.

'His next position he offered me a derisory sum of £1K to leave them on his land which further served confirmation that they were in fact mine.'

She later revealed she declined his offer, and was met with a legal letter challenging her ownership just moments before the shelters were scheduled to be removed from Paul's home.

The animal enthusiast explained: 'I declined his offer and it was agreed that I'd pick the shelters up. Two days before my workmen were due to pick up the shelters, I received yet another legal letter challenging my ownership.

Hitting back: Summer exclusively told MailOnline she's been left with 'no alternative' but to take legal action against the Bake Off judge four months after they ended their romance

'He's punishing my animals with his spite!' Summer was met with a letter challenging her ownership moments before the shelters were due to be removed (pictured in September)

'I feel I have been left with no alternative but to take it to the small claims, sadly', she added.

On the report, a source close to Paul told The Sun: 'Paul's legal team have repeatedly asked for the proof of purchase but Summer has failed to hand it over. What she’s saying is meritless.'

MailOnline contacted Paul's representatives for further comment.

Earlier this year, Summer planned to sue the TV judge after he alleged on social media that she had been 'making money selling stories and continuously courting paps'.