This is the hilarious moment a man is spotted washing his car in spite of the unforgiving torrential rain falling down on him.

The footage, which was uploaded to social media by the Facebook user Black Jack UK, shows the anonymous driver spray his black car with a pressure washer at a petrol station in Farnworth, Bolton.

The man keeps the hood of his waterproof jacket up as he uses the powerful hose to remove the dirt and grime from his vehicle.

The anonymous driver cleans his car with a pressure washer at a petrol station in Farnworth, Bolton

Facebook user Black Jack UK, a music artist from Wythenshawe, Manchester, cannot stop laughing as he films the scene

During the clip, which was filmed on December 10, Facebook user Black Jack UK, a music artist from Wythenshawe, Manchester, provides a glimpse of the relentless rain before telling viewers: 'Right check this out. Check the weather. Absolutely crazy.'

He then sweeps the camera over to a man cleaning his car in the far corner of the petrol station and says: 'Check this guy over there though. Guy's washing his car.'

After chucking to himself at the comical scene, Black Jack UK continues: 'What a flipping member!'

Following the funny encounter, Black Jack UK said: 'I do not know the man I found it hilarious.'

He later uploaded the footage, which has since received more than 3,000 views, to his Facebook page along with the caption: 'I was at a garage yesterday, the weather was mad. I looked to my right and seen the world's dumbest man in the flesh.'

The mysterious man keeps the hood of his waterproof jacket up as he uses the powerful hose to remove the dirt from his car

Following his post, Facebook users rushed to the social media platform to share their thoughts on the anonymous driver's unusual cleaning technique.

One user wrote: 'Don't know what's worse the guy cleaning his car in that weather or the guy with his phone out in a petrol station.'

While another commented: 'I'm extremely particular about keeping my company motor spotless, but not even I'm that committed.'

Another startled viewer simply wrote: 'Unreal.'

Facebook user Black Jack UK took to social media to share the comical scene with his fans

Following the post, some Facebook users poked fun at the anonymous driver's cleaning technique

Meanwhile other viewers felt that driver was smart to use the rain to his advantage, with one stating: 'Guy's a genius...best value wash. He can run with the soap till the very end then the rain rinses off...he'll be soaked but save a couple of quid.'

Another wrote: 'Can't say that I haven't ever done this.'

While another person added: 'Best time to clean your car least all the dirt had a good soak, get that bucket and sponge out.'