Mario Balotelli has made clear he wants to stay at Brescia unless president Massimo Cellino doesn't want him.

The striker has scored four times in 12 Serie A outings for the club this season but Cellino said earlier this month that he could leave on a free transfer in January because he is not suited to a relegation scrap.

But Balotelli is keen to remain at Brescia, who are currently in the Serie A relegation zone but just one point from safety.

Mario Balotelli wants to stay at Brescia despite the club's president saying he could leave

Balotelli scored as Brescia picked up a point away to Parma on Sunday evening

'I felt good here right away, we won't be Juventus, but the quality is not lacking. By staying United, the results will come,' Balotelli told Sky Sport Italia after scoring in Sunday's 1-1 draw against Parma.

'I thought we would be a little higher in the league, but it isn't a problem. We will secure safety before the end of the season.

'For Christmas I ask for good health for me and my family. I want to remain at Brescia, unless the President doesn't want me anymore.

'I have all the intention to stay. I am at home. I need a year that's a little calmer.

'I want to score a lot of goals, I was also unfortunate this year, between hitting posts and wasted chances.'

Massimo Cellino signed Balotelli for Brescia in the summer but said this month the striker didn't have to remain for their relegation fight

Balotelli, who has four goals this season, has committed to staying if the president wants him

It comes after Cellino said Balotelli needed to 'choose which road is best for him' and could leave Brescia on a free once the transfer window opens.

'Mario is sad because he is unable to play his game,' Cellino said. 'Fighting for survival in Serie A requires a huge sacrifice and perhaps he thought it would be much more simple.'

It has also been a turbulent first half of the season for Balotelli, who was subjected to racist abuse when Brescia played in Verona.

He was also dropped by former manager Fabio Grosso, who was in charge for just three games before Cellino restored Eugenio Corini to the job, having sacked him just a month earlier.