They have been dating since May 2017 and have kept their romance largely out of the public eye.

And Joe Alwyn has made a rare comment about his relationship with Taylor Swift as he discussed her love songs about him in a new interview with the Sunday Times.

When the British actor, 28, was asked if he minded Taylor, 30, 'dedicating entire love songs to him' on Lover, he responded: 'No, not at all. No. It's flattering.'

Low-key love: Joe Alwyn has made a rare comment about his relationship with Taylor Swift as he discussed her love songs about him in a new interview with the Sunday Times (pictured December 2019)

London Boy: When the actor, 28, was asked if he minded Taylor 'dedicating entire love songs to him' on Lover, he responded: 'No, not at all. No. It's flattering' (pictured December 2019)

The Favourite star also debunked one myth about their romance, saying that Taylor doesn't take private jets to see him whenever she wants.

He added: 'I just don't pay attention to what I don't want to pay attention to. I turn everything else down on a dial... I know what I want to do, and that's this, and that's what I am doing.'

The songs Cornelia Street and London Boy off the Bad Blood hitmaker's latest album are rumoured to be about Joe, with the latter containing lyrics such as 'You know I love a London boy. boy, I fancy you.'

The song Gorgeous off Taylor's 2017 album Reputation was also said to be about Joe in the early days of their romance.

High-profile: The Favourite star also debunked one myth about their romance, saying that Taylor doesn't take private jets to see him whenever she wants (pictured February 2019)

On Monday, Taylor and Joe put on a rare PDA as he supported her at the world premiere of her film Cats in New York City.

The couple were seen holding hands as a proud Joe escorted a glamorous Taylor out of the bash.

During their three-year romance, the Blank Space hitmaker has reportedly been spending a lot of time in London where Joe lives.

According to The Sun, the singer had been renting a house in North London for their rendezvous and they are rumored to use disguises while going out and about in the city.

An insider told E! last year: They're clearly serious... Taylor's met all of Joe's family. They've done many a Sunday roast together — in fact it happens without fail if she's here over a weekend—and they seem very comfortable around her.'

Her inspiration: The songs Cornelia Street and London Boy off the Bad Blood hitmaker's latest album are rumoured to be about Joe, with the latter containing lyrics such as 'You know I love a London boy. boy, I fancy you' (pictured December 2019)

'His brothers all seem to be fans of them together as they've hung out with Taylor and Joe on several occasions.'

Taylor previously dated British actor Tom Hiddleston for three months, with the couple not shying away from showing off their romance with lots of public outings.

The short-lived relationship followed Taylor's split from Scottish DJ Calvin Harris in June 2016 after 15 months together.

Love Story: They have been dating since May 2017 and have kept their romance largely out of the public eye (pictured December 2018)



