A royal expert has suggested that Prince William and Kate Middleton will take the opportunity to 'project their children forward' and 'steal the show' in Prince Harry and Meghan's absence on the walk to church at Sandringham.

Camilla Tominey appeared on This Morning and predicted Prince George, 6, and Princess Charlotte, 4, will their parents, both 37, on Christmas Day.

'The Sussexes aren't going to be there, so this may be an opportunity for the Cambridges to project their children forward,' she said.

The royal expert also revealed there was still 'more exciting festive imagery' of the royal family to come at the weekend, after the Cambridge's Christmas card leaked online earlier this week.

Royal expert Camilla Tominey suggested Prince William, 37, and Kate Middleton, 37, would take the 'opportunity to project Prince George, 6, and Princess Charlotte, 4, 'forward' into the spotlight on Christmas Day (pictured in Berkshire on Christmas Day in 2016)

She suggested that the fact the Duke and Duchess of Sussex wouldn't be with the royal family on Christmas day was 'an opportunity for the Cambridges to project their children forward.'

Camilla told This Morning hosts Eamonn Holmes and Ruth Langsford that it wouldn't surprise her if Prince George and Princess Charlotte appeared with other members of the royal family on the walk to church.

She added: 'Maybe not Prince Louis because he is a toddler and we all know how toddlers can be in church.'

What is certain, is that the Sussexes will not be joining the royal family on Christmas day.

Prince Harry and Meghan are having a six-week break from royal duties to spend time with baby Archie in an undisclosed location, and will celebrate Christmas with Doria Ragland.

The royal expert hinted the Cambridges would release a second image 'more endearing' image over the weekend

Seven-month-old Archie will be missing out on some fun family time with his new cousins Prince George, Princess Charlotte and Prince Louis, whom he has barely seen since his birth in May.

Camilla suggested their absence on Christmas day would give the Cambridges an opportunity to shine the spotlight on their own children, Prince George and Charlotte.

And she said the spotlight on the family would likely continue into the new year, with 'momentum building' around the Cambridges.

She explained: ‘Looking into 2020, we see the Cambridges as the star couple of the next decade.'

Camilla said she hoped that Meghan and Harry would 'look at the Queen's example' and 'put duty first'

And after Eamonn asked about the 'trouble couple' Prince Harry and Meghan, Camilla explained: 'They’ve had a period of reflection and I hope that they look at the Queen's example through good times and bad she's always put duty first and that’s why she’s so endearingly popular.

'Perhaps that duty first message needs to be absorbed by all other members of the royal family.'

And Camilla hinted royal fans will be delighted with another festive image of the Cambridges this year, adding: 'There is going to be some quite exciting festive imagery of the weekend and in the run up to the big day.’





Many followers went wild over the weekend after the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge's 2019 Christmas card featuring their children Princess Charlotte, Prince George and Prince Louis was shared online.

The royal expert also hinted that Prince William and Kate Middleton would release more festive images over the weekend

In the adorable snap, posted by Air Commodore Dawn McCafferty CBE RAFR on Twitter, Kate can be seen holding onto the handlebars of a vintage khaki-coloured motorbike, while Prince William, sits on the seat with a bemused Prince Louis, one, on his lap.

Meanwhile, big sister Princess Charlotte, four, is photographed standing in the sidecar next to them, while Prince George, six, clad in a pair of red and blue checked shorts, appears to be rubbing his ear at the back of the shot.

Camilla suggested that Kensington Palace are going to release another ‘more endearing image of the Cambridges’ at the weekend.