A complaint made about the Commissioner of the Met Police, Dame Cressida Dick, has been referred to the police watchdog, the Independent Office for Police Conduct.

The IOPC complaint concerns Operation Midland, the Met's disastrous and costly investigation into the lies spun by NHS manager Carl Beech, and the Commissioner's decision not to ask an officer to retract the infamous statement that Beech's tale was 'credible and true'.

Scotland Yard launched the £6m Operation Midland investigation into claims made by fantasist Beech – formerly known as Nick – that he had been sexually abused and tortured by a former prime minister, home secretary and the heads of the Army and intelligence services.

Cressida Dick has faced criticism over Operation Midland, which cost £6m and bore no arrests

The complaint was referred by the Mayor's Office for Policing and Crime.

It comes six weeks after Dame Cressida admitted she should have told a senior officer to withdraw his comment that Beech's false claims of a Westminster paedophile ring were 'credible and true'.

Dame Cressida has previously said she knew immediately that the remark, made at a press conference by Detective Superintendent Kenny McDonald, was a 'mistake'.

Asked if she raised concerns at the time or asked him to withdraw the comment, she told London Assembly Members in October: 'No, I didn't... and perhaps in retrospect I could or should have.'

Dame Cressida said that she 'endorsed' the establishment of the disastrous Operation Midland by Steve Rodhouse while she was assistant commissioner in 2014.

Prior to Beech's trial this summer the Met had been forced to make payouts to some of the men whose houses they raided in a storm of publicity, including former army head Lord Bramall and former MP Harvey Proctor.

Mr Proctor accepted a payout of almost £1 million from Scotland Yard in September over its disastrous handling of Operation Midland, but still demanded that the Commissioner resign.

Carl Beech's obvious lies - including claims he had endured years of beatings and burnings which left no medical evidence - went unchallenged by the Met for months

Mr Proctor lost his job and home after being investigated on the basis of outrageous false accusations and has received a payout of nearly £1m from the Met

Carl Beech's victims Lord Bramall Edwin Bramall joined the Army in 1943 and stormed the beaches of Normandy as a 2nd Lieutenant. He fought until the end of the war and was awarded a Military Cross. He rose steadily through the ranks and became a general in 1972. From 1979-82 he was Chief of the General staff, head of the Army, and from 1982-85 he was Chief of the Defence Staff, head of Britain's armed forces. Sir Michael Hanley Michael Hanley was the head of MI5 from 1972-1978 after serving in the Army in the Second World War. He died in 2001. Sir Maurice Oldfield Maurice Oldfield was the head of MI6 from 1973-1978. He served in Egypt, Singapore and Washington. He died in 1981. Lord Brittan Leon Brittan became a Conservative MP in 1974 and was appointed Margaret Thatcher's Home Secretary in 1983. He was appointed a commissioner at the EU in 1989 and served until 1999. He was made a Lord in 2000 and was vice chairman of UBS AG investment bank. He died in 2015 under a cloud of suspicion. Ted Heath Was prime minister from 1970 to 1974, and a Conservative MP from 1950 to 2001. He died aged 87 in 2003. Harvey Proctor Harvey Proctor was a Tory MP from 1979-1987. In 1986 a newspaper reported that he had sexual relationships with men under 21, which was then the age of consent for homosexual relationships. He resigned and started a shirt company. Greville Janner Greville Janner was a Labour MP from 1970 until 1997, when he became a Lord. He died in 2015 before the investigation into Nick's claims was dropped

The 72-year-old, who was investigated by the force for more than a year after being falsely accused of child murder by the fantasist, Carl Beech will receive £500,000 damages and £400,000 in legal costs.

It is believed to be the biggest ever payout by a police force over negligent behaviour which did not result in wrongful imprisonment.

But in a withering statement Mr Proctor, who lost his home and his job as a result of the police investigation, said: ''Cressida Dick failed abjectly in her duty and should resign.'

Today the IOPC issued a statement to say: 'The IOPC has received a voluntary referral from MOPAC regarding a complaint about public comments made by the Metropolitan Police Commissioner about Operation Midland.

'The referral also alleges the Commissioner failed to take action to correct a statement made to the media by an Operation Midland detective.

'We are assessing the information provided to determine whether an investigation is necessary and if so, what level of involvement is required by the IOPC.

'We will provide a further statement once our decision is made.'

MOPAC said: 'The Mayor's Office for Policing and Crime (MOPAC) has today made a voluntary referral to the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) following the receipt of a public complaint concerning the Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police.

'The complaint was passed to MOPAC by the Metropolitan Police Service on 18 November 2019 and relates to matters associated with Operation Midland.

'Under the Police Reform Act, MOPAC is the appropriate authority for dealing with complaints against the Commissioner. These responsibilities are discharged by MOPAC's Chief Executive.

'MOPAC has reached a decision that the complaint should be recorded. 'Recording' in this context means that a record is made of the complaint giving it formal status as a complaint under the Police Reform Act 2002.

'MOPAC considers that the exceptional circumstances of this case, together with the fact that the IOPC have recently conducted an independent investigation into closely related matters, justifies voluntary referral to the IOPC.

'The IOPC encourages appropriate authorities to refer complaints or recordable conduct matters that do not have to be referred but where the gravity of the subject matter or exceptional circumstances justifies referral.

'In recording the complaint and subsequently deciding to voluntarily refer the complaint to the IOPC, MOPAC is making no judgment about the validity or otherwise of the complaint. Nor has an investigation into the complaint been conducted at this stage.

'MOPAC is asking the IOPC to determine whether or not it is necessary for the complaint to be investigated.'