Rebecca Taylor, 45, (pictured) is believed to have suffered a heart attack following immense grief

A devastated mother suffered a heart attack days after burying her teenage daughter.

Katie Robley, 19, died after a horrific car crash weeks before her birthday on the Isle of Man.

And just days after her funeral her mother Rebecca Taylor, 45, was taken to hospital with chest pains.

Katie's older brother Brandon said: 'Mum suffered a heart attack because of the overwhelming grief. It has been an utterly chaotic time for us.

'One of the doctors even said it was what they call 'broken heart syndrome'.

Brandon said he had to ring the ambulance when he noticed a change in his mother.

The 22-year-old said: 'She was very pale and very tired and was taking a long time to do things and I had a gut feeling she was having a heart attack.

'She did say she was having chest pains. She wouldn't let me call an ambulance at first because she is so stubborn but I called and they took her to hospital.'

Tragic Katie Robley (pictured left) died after a horrifying car crash weeks before her 20th birthday on the Isle of Man. Her boyfriend Jay Waters (pictured right) suffered a brain injury and is still being treated in a neurological unit

He added that his mother was now doing better and was recovering at home.

Katie's boyfriend Jay Waters was driving her home from a date at 10.30pm on October 25 when he lost control of his car and smashed into a van.

He suffered a brain injury and is still being treated in a neurological unit. Katie died in hospital hours after the accident.

Rebecca Taylor (pictured left) with her daughter Katie Robley (pictured right)

Brandon paid tribute to his younger sister who he described as an angel.

He added: 'She was so generous and loving to everybody.

'She used to reach out to random people on Facebook just to make sure they were OK and would send them lovely messages.

WHAT IS 'BROKEN HEART SYNDROME'? Although it's best known as 'broken heart syndrome,' the condition also has another two names: Stress cardiomyopathy and taksubo syndrome. The latter name comes from the shape the heart takes during an episode of 'heartbreak.' The left pumping chamber of the heart stretches outward like a balloon, while the base of the muscle inverts, pulling inward. The combined effect renders the heart too weak to pump blood properly. And, according to the Japanese scientists that first discovered the phenomenon, the contorted heart resembles a 'taksubo,' an octopus-catching pot. The sudden heart syndrome causes symptoms similar to those of a heart attack, like chest pain and shortness of breathe. Broken heart syndrome's exact cause and mechanisms aren't clear. But it tends to happen after shocks, like physical injury or infection or the news of a loved one's death. Scientists think that a sudden influx of stress hormones like adrenaline and cortisol cause the heart to go haywire. The condition strikes over one million in the US a year, and is life-threatening.

'There are tonnes of comments on her FB page about her character. She was a really strong girl and she preserved through so much.

'Katie would drop whatever she was she was doing for anybody if they needed it.'

Brandon was back home playing Xbox with his friends when he heard about the tragic crash.

He said: 'A knock on the door came and I went down and answered it and it was a police.

'They told me to go get my mum and I did and I went back upstairs but I heard the word accident.

'I just ran downstairs burst into the room and said 'What's happened?'

'They told us to get to the hospital immediately.'

He added: 'The last month and a half has just felt like one long day.'

Katie's funeral was on November 18 and since her death her former boss at Manx Telecom has paid tribute to her.

Chief executive Gary Lamb said: 'We have sent our deepest condolences to Katie's family.

'Katie had part of the Manx Telecom family for three months, working with our close-knit shop team as a sales and technical consultant.

'Her colleagues grew accustomed to Katie's kind heart and loving personality and she was cherished by her shop colleagues who describe her as a 'mother hen'.

'Katie will be truly missed by all who knew her at Manx Telecom and everyone in the company will mourn the loss of this young life, full of hope and promise.'

Katie's family, including her older sister Sophie, 27, are now preparing for their first Christmas without her.