Raymond Harry, 35, from Spotsylvania in Virginia, raped a child five times in his caravan

A pedophile who raped a child five times in his squalid mobile home has been handed five life sentences and an additional 100 years in jail.

Raymond Harry, 35, had photos and videos of himself drugging the child with meth before carrying out the rapes, in which he used sexual toys, duct tape, bondage devices and a cage.

He was caught after asking his sister to go to the disintegrating RV to delete data from his phones and email accounts.

She saw the material and told their father who reported it to the police.

Harry was convicted of four counts of rape of a child, one count of forcible sodomy and 50 counts of production of child pornography at a court in Louisa County, Iowa.

Prosecutor Rusty McGuire said Harry is 'one of the vilest and most disgusting' criminals he'd ever investigated, reports the Metro.

'The defendant stole the child's innocence and we are happy the court appropriately sentenced the thief to five mandatory life sentences and an additional 100 years of mandatory time in prison.'

It was only discovered after his sister visited the caravan, pictured, because Harry had asked her to delete data on his mobile phones and computer. When she saw the footage she contacted their father, who told the police

Harry, from Spotsylvania, Virginia, was jailed after admitting the charges shortly before the case was due to go to trial, the Daily Progress reported.

He was first arrested in October 2018 for transporting large amounts of crystal meth.

Harry then texted his sister from jail to ask her to destroy the evidence in his RV. However, by the time their father had reported what she found Harry had already been released on bail.

He fled with the RV before investigators were finally able to catch up with him on December 1 last year.

Harry had a pistol and cell phone in his coat pocket when they were arrested, reports News Channel 9.

Harry was arrested for drugs charges in October 2018. After his sister found evidence of pedophilia he fled in his caravan to Iowa before he was caught by police on December 1

'Detectives searched his RV and found numerous cell phones, digital media storage devices, drugs, drug paraphernalia, guns, and observed a den of hell,' said Robert Wood, Deputy Louisa Commonwealth's Attorney.

'The evidence revealed that his RV and places he stayed were his dungeons of abuse.'

'He set up cameras, produced, directed, and carried out violent rape and sexual abuse of the child.

'The videos and photos documented his crimes and his almost head to toe tattoos identified him in the photos and videos.'

The age and gender of the child have not been released to protect its identity.