Tesla now has 500 Supercharger stations across Europe, with the landmark achieved with a new installation in London.

The American firm's service centre in Park Royal is the destination of the 500th Supercharger location on the continent, but also debuts Tesla's latest - and fastest - devices.

The first eight V3 Superchargers available outside the US will be located at the West London station - and they claim to be able to replenish flat batteries in just 15 minutes.

Fastest charging yet: The first Tesla V3 Superchargers have been installed in London this week, offering charge times of 15 minutes for the American brands' cars

The 500th Supercharger installation means there are now more than 4,700 individual devices across 24 countries in Europe to cater for growing demand.

The first of these was installed in Norway in 2013, which is also home to the largest station in Europe with 44 stalls at the Eidsvoll Verk, Nebbenes destination.

The UK is home to 55 of these stations, with 432 chargers in total.

Having recently upgraded its V2 stations' peak power from 150kW to 120kW to reduce charging times, Tesla owners in the capital will now get to benefit from even shorter plug-in periods.

That's because the Park Royal location also marked the first deployment phase of V3 Superchargers outside Tesla's home nation.

The 500th Supercharger installation means there are now more than 4,700 individual devices across 24 countries in Europe

With peak power of 250kW, a V2 Supercharger can provide a Model 3 with 75 miles of charge in just 5 minutes

The Park Royal Tesla service station is the 500th European location to get Superchargers

V3 is a completely new architecture with technology designed for the next wave of the electric vehicle revolution.

With peak power of 250kW and a smooth power delivery that eliminates power-sharing, Tesla says it anticipates that the typical charging time at a V3 Supercharger will drop to around 15 minutes.

It states that a Model 3 Long Range operating at peak efficiency can recover up to 75 miles of charge in just five minutes and charge at rates of up to 1,000 miles per hour.

There will be 16 Superchargers in total at the West London Tesla branch - one half being V2 chargers and the other the latest V3 devices

The first eight V3 Superchargers will be located at the Park Royal station alongside eight V2 Superchargers.

A spokesman for the brand said: 'We are excited to continue to build the most extensive and advanced network in Europe whilst keeping the charging experience as affordable and convenient as possible for all our customers.'