Her beloved sister tragically passed away in September 2015 after a secret battle with breast cancer.

And Joan Collins was sweetly gifted a picture of her late sibling Jackie during dinner out with her husband Percy Gibson, 54, at Craig's in West Hollywood, California, on Thursday night.

The Hollywood legend, 86, proudly carried and posed for photographers with the thoughtful snap as she cherished Jackie's memory.

Gift: Joan Collins was sweetly gifted a picture of her late sibling Jackie during dinner out with her husband Percy Gibson, 54, at Craig's in West Hollywood, California, on Thursday night

Joan looked effortlessly chic in a pair of black velvet flared trousers with a matching coloured sheer top.

Adding some lavish accessories, she teamed the items of clothing with a red and gold beaded cropped jacket, oversized gold pendant earrings, a stylish handbag and black heels.

Joan styled her brunette locks into a curly blow-dried hairdo, she added a slick of glamorous make-up which included smokey eye shadow with glossy red lipstick.

Smitten: The Hollywood legend, 86, looked effortlessly chic in a pair of black velvet flared trousers with a matching coloured sheer top

Heartbreaking: Her beloved sister tragically passed away in September 2015 after a secret battle with breast cancer (pictured together in 2009)

In memory: Joan proudly carried and posed for photographers with the thoughtful snap as she cherished Jackie's memory

The American Horror Story actress was joined by husband Percy who looked dapper in grey chequered trousers with a black polo neck jumper and navy patterned suit jacket.

Later in the night, the producer who accessorised his look with a blue Hermes belt and black brogues, carried the picture of Jackie.

Novelist Jackie was diagnosed with stage 4 breast cancer in 2009, but it was only in the month leading up to her death that she told her sister she was ill because she didn't want to burden her.

Jackie tragically passed away in September 2015 aged 77 just two weeks before her 78th birthday.

Details: Adding some lavish accessories, she teamed the items of clothing with a red and gold beaded cropped jacket, oversized gold pendant earrings, a stylish handbag and black heels

Glamorous: Joan styled her brunette locks into a curly blow-dried hairdo, she added a slick of glamorous make-up which included smokey eye shadow with glossy red lipstick

In 2018, Joan revealed how she believes her late sister Jackie may be keeping up the communication between them from beyond the grave.

The actress told the Observer that a fly appears next to her 'all the time' and she believes it could be Jackie.

'Do you believe that little flies or butterflies or something can be old souls, people that you knew? I have this little fly that comes near me all the time. It's really strange. I think it might be my sister.

Cherishing her memory: The American Horror Story actress was joined by husband Percy who looked dapper in grey chequered trousers with a black polo neck jumper and navy patterned suit jacket

'I know that sounds weird, and I don't know whether I believe in the afterlife or not, my opinion is still out to lunch about that, but it is weird that wherever I go, at least two or three times a week – wherever I am, France, London, here – this little fly comes.'

Jackie, who spent most of her life in America and became a US citizen in 1960, wrote 32 books - all of which made it onto the New York Times Bestsellers' List.

The 'queen of the bonkbuster' stayed busy even in her final days, travelling to London to appear on Loose Women just nine days before her death.