Nearly three quarters of a million Royal Bank of Scotland customers who were overcharged on international payments for four years are due £40million in compensation, the bank has said.

The taxpayer-owned bank incorrectly adjusted its foreign exchange fees by 0.06 per cent between March 2010 and May 2014, meaning those who sent money abroad were charged an extra 60p for every £1,000 sent than they should have been.

The total compensation figure includes 8 per cent interest as well as the amount they were overcharged, and suggests the average customer will receive £54.80.

RBS overcharged customers on foreign money transfers for 4 years

However, this will vary and one customer is believed to be due a refund of £70,000, according to The Telegraph.

Of the 730,000 affected customers, 573,000 are personal account holders and the rest are business banking customers.

RBS expects to finish issuing refunds by the third quarter of next year. Those affected will receive refunds automatically, and do not need to contact the bank.

Those who have switched away or changed their details will receive a cheque, as the bank will still contact them.

It is the second chunky payout the bank has had to organise in the last four months, after it was ordered by the Competition and Markets Authority to pay back £1.5million to 10,370 mortgage customers after they did not receive annual PPI reviews for six years, after RBS sent them to the wrong address.

The bank also had to put £900million towards a last-minute rush of PPI claims, which helped it swing to a loss of £8million in the third quarter of 2019.

The chief executive and chief financial officer of its under-performing investment banking arm stepped down this week, as part of a shakeup by new RBS chief executive Alison Rose.

RBS told This is Money in a statement: 'We are proactively refunding the difference, with interest, for incorrect foreign exchange rates that were applied to some international payments for certain customers between 2010 and 2014.

'We identified and addressed the source of the incorrect exchange rates in 2014, and put in place additional checks and controls to prevent this happening again.

'We apologise to those customers impacted.'