Maura Higgins and Kendall Rae Knight really pulled out the stops when they attended the Off Limits Entertainment Christmas Party on Thursday.

The Love Island stars complemented one another as they wore very sexy metallic outfits to the bash.

Former ring girl, Maura 29 wore a sequined silver blazer which had an extreme plunging necklace and was short in length.

Glamorous: Maura Higgins, (left) and Kendall Rae Knight, (right) wore sexy metallic outfits as they enjoyed a night out at the Off Limits Entertainment Christmas Party on Thursday

She emphasised her toned pins in the thigh-grazing silver dress and added height with a pair of black boots.

Her brunette tresses were pulled back into an elegant ponytail and winged eyeliner completed the look.

Meanwhile, Kendall, 27, exuded glamour in a ruched rose gold lamé minidress teamed with a white handbag.

Chic: Maura displayed her ample assets in a plunging blazer ensemble as she enjoyed her evening out

Beauties: The former ring girl (left), 29, and reality star, 27, dressed up for the occasion in metallic dresses as they joined a host of other celebrities on Thursday

Lithe: She emphasised her toned pins in the thigh-grazing silver dress and added height with a pair of black boots

She added height with perspex heels and straightened her locks, letting them fall across her shoulders before accessorising with diamond earrings.

The former beauty queen finished with a nude lip and purple makeup.

It comes after rumours Maura was taking Caroline Flack's place on Love Island were put to bed after it was confirmed that Laura Whitmore was handed the job.

Casual: Summer Monteys-Fullam cut a casual figure in a pair of faded blue jeans and a Balmain t-shirt

Svelte: Paul Hollywood's ex, 24, held her jacket slung over her arm as she posed up a storm outside the party

Maura first dropped a hint she could be stepping in for embattled Caroline as the presenter of Love Island's first winter edition last weekend, although she's set to compete on Dancing On Ice in the new year.

Irish beauty Maura led fans to believe she had landed a role when she shared a picture of a private jet, while adding the caption: 'off to the sun to shoot something very exciting.'

MailOnline contacted ITV representatives for further comment.

Excited fans quickly questioned the star's reason for the post, with many suggesting that she could be set to present Love Island.

Dapper: Former Love Islanders Jack Fincham, (left) and Sam Bird dressed up for the occasion in black jeans

One simply wrote: 'Love Island' and added a winking emoji. Another asked: 'Are you heading down to SA by any chance miss Higgins'.

Someone else wondered: 'New love island presenter?'

Caroline resigned from hosting the sixth season of the show after she was charged with assault after an incident during the early hours of Thursday, December 12.

But on Friday, Laura was announced as the show's stand-in host. She took to social media and released an official statement to confirm the news.

Well-dressed: Love Island's Chris Hughes, (left) cosied up to TOWIE's Liam 'Gatsby' Blackwell as the pair headed inside the event

Referencing both her friendship with Caroline and the host's efforts to get her the job, Laura said in her statement:

'To say I'm excited to be heading to Cape Town to host Love Island, the biggest show on television, is an understatement...

'I want to thank ITV for trusting me at the helm of this huge show. I wish it was in better circumstances; Caroline is a brilliant host and also a friend.

Really? Love Island's Maura shared this post previously as she hinted she could be replacing the embattled Caroline Flack as the presenter of the show's winter series in South Africa

'We've spoken a lot in the last few days since she stepped down. She has been very kind to me and strongly pushed me for this role. I've watched her host every series and know I have big boots to fill. I will try and do it justice...

'Above all, I am a massive fan of this show. I've never been to a Love Island villa, and I can't wait to get in there to meet all the new Islanders looking for love.'

'The Love Island team are the best in the business… including the voice and heart of the show, Iain. He thought he was getting a holiday away from me… not a chance!'

Shock: Caroline's role on the ITV show was called into question on Friday after she was charged with assault following an alleged bust-up with her boyfriend Lewis Burton, 27

Shortly after the announcement, Caroline took to Instagram to pen: 'I'm glad it's Laura... She loves the show as much as I do... again...

'Thank you for your continuous messages of support... it's a really rough time... but I'm doing all I can to keep my head above water and sort this all out...

Head of Digital Channels and Acquisitions, Paul Mortimer, said: 'I'm delighted that Laura is able to step in this winter on ITV2's biggest show.

What does this mean? To set fans' pulses racing, Maura added wrote a cryptic message in the photo's caption

She is the best person for the job and is a popular and experienced presenter of live television. Whilst Caroline is away, we know that Love Island will be in very safe hands.'

Caroline was said to have needed hospital treatment after cutting her hand on broken glass after an alleged fight.

It was reported her boyfriend Lewis Burton shouted 'I was normal till I met her' as she was arrested by police. However, a friend today confirmed exclusively to MailOnline that he would not be pressing charges.

This could be big: Excited fans quickly questioned the star's reason for the post, with many suggesting that she could be set to present Love Island

The friend said: 'Lewis is very upset and embarrassed about how this situation has blown up. It was a tiff between a couple that love each other and should never have ended up in the public domain.

'He has not - and is not pressing charges. He loves Caroline and wants things to be back to normal as soon as possible.'

She will appear at Highbury Corner Magistrates Court on December 23 charged with assault by beating.