Julian Assange has been pictured for the first time in months being whisked from court in a prison van after claiming his Ecuadorian embassy room had been bugged by security forces.

The Wikileaks founder, 48, appeared more well-groomed than he did when he was last snapped in May in the wake of being kicked out of his embassy bolthole.

He was seen in the maximum security vehicle - believed to be travelling back to Belmarsh Prison in southeast London - wearing a dark jacket and white shirt.

Today's hearing was held in secret and journalists were barred from observing on national security grounds.

Assange is fighting extradition to the US where he would stand trial for conspiring with army intelligence analyst Chelsea Manning to expose military secrets between January and May 2010.

Edward Fitzgerald QC, representing the Australian, yesterday told Westminster Magistrates' Court material would be submitted relating to alleged 'bugging of the conversations with his lawyers in the Ecuadorian embassy'.

Medical documents and evidence of Assange's prison condition would also be submitted.

Julian Assange claims his rooms at the Ecuadorian embassy were bugged by security forces as he battles extradition to the US (pictured being whisked back to maximum-security Belmarsh Prison in southeast London after the hearing)

Assange in a prison van leaving the hearing where he claimed his rooms at the Ecuadorian embassy were bugged by security forces as he battles extradition to the US

It is understood the former Wikileaks editor today gave evidence about matters concerning conversations he held with his lawyers while he was residing at the Ecuadorian Embassy.

But reporters were not admitted into the hearing because it concerned matters of national security.

On the walls outside the courtroom a sign read simply: 'Closed court'.

Mr Fitzgerald told the court yesterday: 'There is a bundle with the revelations in the Spanish proceedings in regards to the ongoing evidence of the bugging of the conversations with his lawyers in the Ecuadorian embassy.'

Assange's supporters held a demonstration outside the court handing out leaflets and chanting various slogans.

His full extradition hearing will be heard at Belmarsh Magistrates' Court on February 24 next year and will last up to four weeks.

Julian Assange arriving at Westminster Magistrates' Court in London in April this year

Julian Assange supporters outside Westminster Magistrates' Court in London, December 20

A protester wears a mask of Wikileaks founder Julian Assange and prison overalls as he poses outside Westminster Magistrates Court in London on December 19

Assange's supporters held a demonstration outside the court handing out leaflets and chanting various slogans

District Judge Vanessa Baraitser said she understood the UK government was keen for proceedings not to be delayed and for the matter to be resolved within the allotted time.

There will be a brief administrative hearing back at Westminster Magistrates' Court on 18 January.

Last month Swedish authorities dropped rape allegations made in 2010 against Assange.

He took refuge in a small office, converted into a bedroom in Ecuador's embassy since 2012 before he was finally evicted earlier this year.

Assange was then jailed for 50 weeks for breaching bail on 1 May.