While he insists all the focus should be on his players, and not him, during his time at Tottenham, Jose Mourinho will not need reminding of the starring role he will play on Sunday afternoon.

Not only are Spurs' hosting Chelsea in a bitterly-contested London derby, but this is a meeting between Mourinho's current employers and the side where he built his world-class reputation.

In fact, he was quick to send a not-so-subtle reminder to Chelsea's fans during his last game against them, when he was Manchester United manager, as he walked off the pitch holding up three fingers, the number of titles he delivered to west London.

Jose Mourinho reminded Chelsea fans how many Premier League titles he won on his last visit

But reunions with his old side have more often than not been difficult for Mourinho's squads

JOSE MOURINHO'S RECORD AS A MANAGER WHEN TAKING ON CHELSEA Season Competition Round Date Team Opponent For Against Venue Result Opposing Manager 2010 Champions League Round of 16 24/02/2010 Inter Milan Chelsea 2 1 H W Carlo Ancelotti 2010 Champions League Round of 16 16/03/2010 Inter Milan Chelsea 1 0 A W Carlo Ancelotti 2017 Premier League 9 23/10/2016 Manchester United Chelsea 0 4 A L Antonio Conte 2017 FA Cup Quarter-finals 13/03/2017 Manchester United Chelsea 0 1 A L Antonio Conte 2017 Premier League 31 16/04/2017 Manchester United Chelsea 2 0 H W Antonio Conte 2018 Premier League 11 05/11/2017 Manchester United Chelsea 0 1 A L Antonio Conte 2018 Premier League 28 25/02/2018 Manchester United Chelsea 2 1 H W Antonio Conte 2018 FA Cup Final 19/05/2018 Manchester United Chelsea 0 1 N L Antonio Conte 2019 Premier League 9 20/10/2018 Manchester United Chelsea 2 2 A D Maurizio Sarri

And so in what will be his 10th career meeting against the Blues, there is both vital points available and a chance to remind his cynics that he still has the Midas touch.

Tottenham-Chelsea is a game drenched in bile and vitriol between the two sets of supporters. Their dislike of each other seemingly shows no bounds. Such is the animosity between the clubs, Mourinho, while Chelsea boss, famously vowed to never manage Spurs. Famous last words, eh.

But this latest meeting will come with a caveat, and a potentially key one at that. For Mourinho, life against his old side has been tricky, with just two wins from the seven games he had against them while United boss.

He was stood motionless on the touchline in his first game against them with United as an Antonio Conte-led Chelsea ran riot in a 4-0 win. It was an humiliating return for the 'Special One'. Chelsea were ahead after 30 seconds and never looked back.

His first return to Chelsea with Manchester United was a disaster that ended in a 4-0 battering

Mourinho (right) got a warm embrace by John Terry (left) but his smile went with the game

Before the match Mourinho was unsure how he would be received by Chelsea's supporters, given he was now managing a direct rival.

He got a warm embrace from John Terry before kick-off and was mobbed when he arrived with the rest of the United squad but by the end of the game, battered and bruised from a devastating knockout, it was chants of 'you're not special anymore' that reverberated around Stamford Bridge.

'It is one of those days when you give the advantage to opponents by doing nothing,' he said at the time.

There also appeared to be an angry confrontation between Mourinho and Conte at the final whistle, with Italian TV reporting that the Portuguese questioned the scale of the Chelsea manager's celebrations at the end.

'You don't celebrate like that at 4-0, you can do it at 1-0, otherwise it's humiliating for us,' Mourinho is believed to have said. If the touch-paper between the duo wasn't lit already, it certainly was now.

And so it went on. Conte questioning why Mourinho overlooked Victor Moses, Mourinho snapping back a week or two later by calling Chelsea 'defensive', Conte criticising United's spending and perhaps the best, but most banal, of the lot when Mourinho made a subtle dig about Conte's hair transplant.

'I could answer in many different ways (about his criticism) but I'm not going to lose my hair to speak about Antonio Conte,' he said. Subtle, sure, but vintage Mourinho.

Antonio Conte (right) riled Mourinho (left) after a humiliating 4-0 return to Stamford Bridge

It was the match-up that dominated Mourinho's games against Chelsea and more often than not it was Conte that had the Portuguese's number on and off the pitch.

And all the jibes and jostling in 2017-18 came to a head when both faced off with a trophy on the line - the 2018 FA Cup final.

Mourinho had referred to Conte as 'a clown on the touchline' in the months prior to the Wembley showpiece but only one manager was made to look like a circus act as Chelsea robbed Mourinho of silverware in front of a packed house in north London.

A first half penalty by Eden Hazard, after Phil Jones made a mockery of the art of defending, ensured the victory and the touchline manner at the final whistle was striking. There was Conte, enthused from his trophy win against one of his biggest rivals, jumping around wildly with his coaching staff.

And there was Mourinho, stony-faced as he absorbed the defeat to a man he had called out for his fake hair and clownish behaviour. At best it was an irritating afternoon. At worst, it was a sign that Mourinho's crown was falling fast.

The Conte-Mourinho dynamic was box office, far greater than what was served up nine years ago with Carlo Ancelotti.

But fast forward to his last game against them, with Maurizio Sarri in the dugout this time for Chelsea, and Mourinho was biting back, tired of humiliation and sarcasm as he held up three fingers as a reminder to the home fans to be grateful for the three Premier League titles he delivered them.

Tensions spilled over with Mourinho (left) and Conte (right) as the fourth official intervened

The United boss was left raging at referee Michael Oliver after a hotly-contested FA Cup tie

There was a desperation sewn into Mourinho when he came up against bitter rival Conte (left)

It was the type of brashness that saw Mourinho saunter into the league and become the master when he first arrived.

His first visit received a mixed reception but these days he is Public Enemy No 1, unquestionably.

Take his last game against the Blues as a case in point. Mourinho was in the thick of the drama as his United side conceded a late equaliser to settle for a draw. United had come from a goal down to lead 2-1 before Ross Barkley scored in the 96th minute to rescue a point, sparking wild scenes on the home bench.

Chelsea's technical assistant Marco Ianni raced to celebrate Barkley's strike in front of Mourinho, a brave decision with the United boss not needing much to fly off the handle.

Mourinho lost his cool having held it together for large spells. He jumped up to confront Ianni and was then cooled down by United's staff members and substitute goalkeeper Sergio Romero.

He taunted the home fans at the final whistle with the now iconic image of three fingers, after chants of 'f*** off Mourinho' echoed around his former home.

Conte did not hold anything back in his touchline celebrations after Chelsea's FA Cup victory

The Portuguese tried to be gracious in defeat but losing to Conte in a final was painful for him

Mourinho got the better of Chelsea at the start of the decade when he was Inter Milan boss

'Sarri took care of the situation,' a riled up Mourinho said post match. 'They have both apologised to me. I accept. For me, the story is over.

'Don't do what everyone does and say: "It's Mourinho who does things." I don't know his name, I don't need to know. Everything is fine.'

And, while this latest meeting is not at Stamford Bridge, you can be certain the boos for Mourinho will be deafening from the away end. Any love left between Chelsea supporters and Mourinho has eroded in his years away.

It was different on his first couple of reunions, which started with his famed Inter Milan side back in 2010.

Goals from Diego Milito and Esteban Cambiasso cancelled out Salomon Kalou's strike and Ancelotti's Chelsea struggled to cope with the intensity of the Italians.

Inter had rarely looked better than they did at this point under Mourinho, with added flair to their die. Little did he and supporters know that this squad would go on to clinch a famous Treble.

The return leg in London was similarly impressive, a respect bestowed on Mourinho for what he achieved at Chelsea kept the atmosphere cordial until Samuel Eto'o fired in from the edge of the area to knock Chelsea out of the Champions League.

The game descended into chaos at the end as Mourinho (left) was embroiled in a bench row

Mourinho was angry when Chelsea's technical assistant Marco Ianni (left) celebrated Ross Barkley's late equalising goal wildly in front of the United bench, leading to the mini-fracas

There could be few complaints, even for the most partisan Chelsea fans, that Inter and Mourinho did not deserve it, although the boss did not want to milk celebrations at the end as a sign of respect. despite his player racing over to mark the moment with their manager.

That was where his record against Chelsea looked to have peaked. Thereafter, admittedly in the middle of a massive rebuilding job with Manchester United, things never quite went to plan.

Only twice did he beat arch-nemesis Conte, and both times it was inside the walls at Old Trafford. But when it mattered most in recent seasons, Mourinho struggled to find the formula from his Inter days.