An Ebola patient in the Democratic Republic of the Congo has fallen ill with the virus for a second time, making them the first in this outbreak to relapse.

The World Health Organization today confirmed that a survivor in a town called Mabalako had relapsed.

Around two thirds of people infected in this outbreak have died, but people do not tend to become sick a second time after they have recovered.

The rare occurrence was seen in the UK when Scottish nurse Pauline Cafferkey, who helped to tackle the 2014 Ebola outbreak in West Africa, relapsed after recovering from the illness.

Spread of the virus in the Congo has slowed down in recent months, with just 11 new cases recorded last week down from weekly tolls of more than 100 in the spring.

But the relapse has sparked fears returning infections may keep the outbreak rumbling on and make it even harder to control.

A health worker is decontaminated after visiting the home of a dead person suspected to have died of Ebola in the city of Beni in October. Health officials say they have now seen the first case of someone falling ill with the disease for a second time

The Ebola outbreak in Democratic Republic of Congo had, as of Wednesday December 18, infected 3,356 people and killed 2,220, making it the second-worst on record.

In early December, Congolese health authorities reported that a survivor in Mabalako, North Kivu province, had fallen ill with the virus again.

No details about the patient, other than their location, have been revealed.

Preliminary tests have since classified it as a relapse, the World Health Organization (WHO) said in a weekly report.

WHY IS THE SPREAD OF EBOLA SO DIFFICULT TO HANDLE IN RURAL AREAS? The 2014 Ebola epidemic in West Africa gave clues about why the killer virus is so difficult to control in rural areas. The worst outbreak in history started in the forested rural region of southeastern New Guinea and quickly spread to neighbouring countries Sierra Leone and Liberia. The spread to Sierra Leone can be traced back to an unsafe burial that happened in Sokoma, a remote village in Kailahun district, near the border with Guinea. The death of a respected traditional healer, who had been trying to cure others with Ebola in Guinea, brought hundreds of mourners from nearby towns. A traditional funeral and burial ceremony can lead to the spread of Ebola from a deceased person. Part of the burial may include the local custom of washing the body and then using the water as a blessing by putting it into the eyes and mouth. Investigations by local health authorities suggested that participation in that funeral could be linked to as many as 365 Ebola deaths afterwards. Meanwhile in Guinea, 60 per cent of all cases were been linked to traditional burial practices. Ebola virus disease escaped rural Sierra Leone into Foya District of rural Liberia and proceeded to enter the densely populated Monrovia, a city of over one million inhabitants. The first cluster was believed to be caused by a family trying to seek spiritual healing in the city. Researchers theorise that a lack of successful treatment in remote villages causes patients - who may believe Ebola is a supernatural cause confined to their home, such as a curse - to flee to families in other communities, infecting many more people. Although health workers tirelessly work to educate people on Ebola, many locals mistrust them - especially if they are Western. Experts urge the development of strategies which take the way locals think into consideration, such as using chiefs or leaders of a community to deploy a message in their own colloquial language.

'Rare cases of relapse – in which a person who has recovered from EVD (Ebola) gets disease symptoms again – have been documented during past outbreaks, but this is the first relapse documented in this outbreak,' it said.

Eleven new Ebola cases were confirmed in the past week, all of whom are believed to have caught the virus from the person who relapsed, according to the WHO.

Overall the case was a potential source of infection for 28 people, it said.

'It is a single transmission chain but it is worrying,' said Mike Ryan, head of the WHO's emergencies programme.

He said the situation in Mabalako was worrying partly due to its proximity to the town of Butembo, a populous trading hub and once the centre of the outbreak.

'We had a massive problem (in Butembo) only six months ago, so there is real concern that any continued transmission in Mabalako may potentially re-infect Butembo.'

Despite the development of an effective vaccine and treatments, a recent surge in violence by rebel militias and criminal bands near Congo's borders with Uganda and Rwanda has hampered efforts to contain the outbreak.

'That has created the perfect storm that has allowed virus to get away from us and go on underground,' Mr Ryan said.

Efforts to control the devastating outbreak have been held back by violence and political unrest from the start.

Dozens of people, including international health workers, have been killed by militant gangs and quarantine camps have been ransacked by criminals.

Suspected Islamist militiamen killed at least 22 people last weekend.

Infections have started to rise in areas health workers have been unable to access because of insecurity.

Similar attacks have killed at least 179 civilians, researchers say, since the Congolese army launched an offensive on October 30 against the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF), a Ugandan Islamist group active in eastern Congo.

Richard Kivanzanga, the deputy administrator of Beni territory, told Reuters he had counted 22 bodies on Sunday in the villages of Baoba and Ntombi.

'The assailants killed women, men and children,' he said. 'It wasn't possible to evacuate all the bodies today because we had to wait for an escort from the army.'

Almost a third of all people who have caught Ebola in this year's outbreak have died of it, but this patient is the first to suffer a relapse

The number of people being infected each week in the Congo's outbreak has dropped dramatically from more than 100 in the spring to just 11 last week (Pictured: Health workers in a tent in the city of Beni)

The surge in violence has lead to deadly protests against the army and UN peacekeepers for failing to protect them.

The US Food and Drug Administration this week gave approval for its first ever Ebola vaccine.

Drugmaker Merck & Co has now received both European and American approval for its jab Ervebo, which is administered as a single-dose injection and will help to prevent Ebola in patients aged 18 years and older, the regulator said in a statement.

In November, Merck received approval from the European Commission to market Ervebo, less than a month after a European medicines panel backed the first-ever vaccine against the virus.