Maya Jama has returned to work at the BBC following widespread speculation that she was set to replace Caroline Flack as Love Island presenter.

On Friday morning it was revealed that Laura Whitmore would be taking over from the embattled host, after she opted to step down following an argument with her boyfriend Lewis Burton which led to her arrest and charge for assault.

Amid the speculation over the replacement, Maya, 25, who was on holiday in Dubai at the time, refrained from comment and has now returned to work.

Shocker: Maya Jama has returned to work at the BBC following widespread speculation that she was set to replace Caroline Flack as Love Island presenter

When news of Caroline's departure arose, Maya was one of the forerunners for the role with her name sitting alongside Laura, Maura Higgins and Gemma Collins.

In support of Maya, one fan wrote earlier in the week: 'Caroline Flack has quit as Love Island host. That can only mean one thing... welcome Maya Jama'.

It has now been confirmed that Laura will replace Caroline as Love Island host.

Following Caroline's arrest and charge for assault after a fight with her boyfriend Lewis Burton, 27, last Thursday, the star, 40, announced earlier that she was set to step down as presenter for the sixth season of the show.

She's back: Amid the speculation over the replacement, Maya, 25, who was on holiday in Dubai at the time, refrained from comment and has now returned to work

Shock: Maya was wide awake ahead of the announcement due to her jet lag

On Friday morning, Laura was announced as host, with the Irish star, 34, taking to both social media and releasing an official statement to confirm the news, which was revealed exclusively by MailOnline on Wednesday.

Laura shared a snap on Instagram of a water bottle adorned with her name - one of the hallmarks of the show and a prop given to all contestants.

Referencing both her friendship with Caroline and the host's efforts to get her the job, Laura said in her statement: 'To say I'm excited to be heading to Cape Town to host Love Island, the biggest show on television, is an understatement...

New role: It has now been confirmed that Laura will replace Caroline as Love Island host

'I want to thank ITV for trusting me at the helm of this huge show. I wish it was in better circumstances; Caroline is a brilliant host and also a friend.

'We've spoken a lot in the last few days since she stepped down. She has been very kind to me and strongly pushed me for this role. I've watched her host every series and know I have big boots to fill. I will try and do it justice...

'Above all, I am a massive fan of this show. I've never been to a Love Island villa, and I can't wait to get in there to meet all the new Islanders looking for love.'

'The Love Island team are the best in the business… including the voice and heart of the show, Iain. He thought he was getting a holiday away from me… not a chance!'