Rob Burrow is determined to fight his illness after he broke down in an interview when discussing his motor neurone disease diagnosis.

The Leeds Rhinos legend, who won eight Super League titles, announced the devastating news on Thursday in an emotional statement.

The 37-year-old has received support from numerous people across the rugby family, including fellow MND sufferer and former Scottish rugby union international Doddie Weir, but couldn't hold back the raw emotion in an interview with the BBC.

Rob Burrow was visibly emotional when talking to the BBC about his MND diagnosis

The former England international had to be consoled by Kevin Sinfield during the interview

The Leeds Rhinos legend announced the diagnosis with a statement on Thursday

'Maybe it's the athlete in us all where you know you don't want to lie down and just take it,' Burrows said, resolutely.

'I'm taking it as a challenge, I don't intend to lie down, I want to get stuck into it a bit like my career you know.'

A crowdfunding page has been set up and has already hit over £65,000, with more than 3,400 people contributing.

The 37-year-old enjoyed a glittering career with the Rhinos - winning eight Super League titles

He posted this picture on December 19, 2017 with his wife and two daughters Macy and Maya

When asked the effect the news has had on his wife and three children, Burrow said: 'That's the emotional side.

'You know I suppose you have your good days, your bad days but...'

Burrow started crying at this point, and was soon comforted by Leeds Rhinos Director of Rugby and close friend Kevin Sinfield midway through the interview.

Burrow broke down in tears when asked the effect the news had on his wife and kids

Burrow pictured in 2017 with wife Lindsey (left) and friends James and Charlotte Broughton

However, he was able to continue and he emphasise his thanks for all the support he has received so far.

'I've tonnes of family support, my club and in particular Kev [Kevin Sinfield], you know can't do enough for me.

'When people want to help you, and you can't repay them. Very humbling, overwhelming, forever grateful, I can't thank them enough.'

Kevin Sinfield (second right) has expressed his heartache at the news about his close friend

Burrow only retired two years ago after winning his eighth Super League Grand Final and is currently Leeds' reserve team head coach.

He also won the Challenge Cup in 2014 and 2015, as well as three World Club Challenges and three League Leaders Shields.

MND has a two to five year prognosis, and the illness claimed the life of former Rangers defender Fernando Ricksen in September.

Former Rangers defender Fernando Ricksen lost his life to MND in September

Burrow said the first signs were a few months back after he started slurring his speech

Burrow admitted the news came as a huge shock when he was told by the doctor.

'Family were telling me I was slurring my speech a bit a few months back,' Burrow said.

'I've always been a bit short-tongued so I never really took notice or believed them.

'Then at that point I was seeing the doctor for my shoulder, an old injury so, I told him about my speech and from then it was really quick you know, three weeks had tests, saw a neurologist, MRI.

As well as their two young daughters, the Burrows also have a son called Jackson

Burrow was candid and honest in discussing the devastating news yesterday

'Just under three weeks, I got the results and diagnosed. When I went to see the specialist, we were expecting to be told, I've something which can be treated and move on and get on with your life.

'So when I went in the room and he told me, you know, I had it, bit of a shock.'

Weir, who stole the show with his emotional speech at the BBC Sports Personality of the Year awards last Sunday, said on Twitter on Thursday: 'I met with Rob Burrow last night and offered him whatever help and support he might need at what is a difficult time.

'Meeting another sportsman suffering from MND has strengthened my resolve to help find a solution to this condition.'

MND sufferer and former Scottish rugby union player Doddie Weir has spoken to Burrow

Tributes have poured in for Burrow - current England international Sam Tomkins announced on Friday that he would auction his England shirt from the recent World Cup 9s tournament, with all the money going to Burrow and his family.

Meanwhile, Harlequins player Danny Care tweeted: 'Devastating news. All of rugby union is behind you. Hero of mine growing up. Stay strong mate.'

Former Newcastle defender Ryan Taylor said 'so sad' on social media, while actor Matthew Lewis - who is a huge rugby league fan - said: 'Rob is one of the most inspirational men I've ever met.

Rob is one of the most inspirational men I’ve ever met. Humble and genuine, a childhood hero I’m fortunate enough to call a friend. This is heartbreaking. https://t.co/Hysa67v1M5 — Matthew Lewis (@Mattdavelewis) December 19, 2019

'Humble and genuine, a childhood hero I'm fortunate enough to call a friend. This is heartbreaking.'

Lastly, former Wales international and current BBC commentator Jonathan Davies said: 'This is dreadful news. My thoughts are with Rob Burrow, his family and friends.

'Hope the Rugby League family show what a great game it is and give him all the support he deserves. Just like rugby union are supporting Doddie Weir.'