Talented bakers have revealed the heart-stopping cake they created for their local hospital - a super-realistic depiction of open heart surgery.

The bloody concoction, which looks like a prop from a hospital drama, features a patient's chest in the operating theatre, with red-filled tubes and a rib spreader.

But it was actually a chocolate cake assembled by talented husband and wife team Nina and John Blackburn, both 45, from Auckland.

The main body of the cake was stuffed with a hazelnut truffle filling - not organs - and covered in a hazelnut ganache.

It was iced, airbrushed using edible skin tone paint, and decorated with diluted strawberry jam and red food colouring.

Even the tubes were filled with red jelly - and all the surgical tools and clamps were solid chocolate, painted over with edible dust.

Nina and John Blackburn, both 45, from Auckland, New Zealand baked a super-realistic depiction of open heart surgery cake for their local hospital

The main body of the cake was stuffed with a hazelnut truffle filling and covered in a hazelnut ganache (pictured)

The couple then iced, airbrushed using edible skin tone paint, and decorated with diluted strawberry jam and red food colouring. Pictured, the chocolate cake inside

The cake was gifted to the cardiac unit in Waikato Hospital, Hamilton, New Zealand, by cake decorator Nina, and fed 300 medical workers.

'It is my biggest chocolate piece challenge to date, and I was a bundle of nerves putting the final piece together on site,' explained Nina.

'I was contacted by Clinical Director and Cardiothoracic Surgeon David McCormack to create a cake for the 30th anniversary of the Waikato Hospital Cardiac unit.

'When I was speaking to David and listening to how passionate he was about his hospital team and what it meant to him, I was reminded about my own experiences.

Nina told how she was contacted by Clinical Director and Cardiothoracic Surgeon David McCormack to create a cake for the 30th anniversary of the Waikato Hospital Cardiac unit. Pictured, with John with the heart surgery cake

After being asked to make the cake, Nina told how she was reminded of the many the surgeries and hospital stays she'd had - and felt compelled to gift them a cake (pictured)

The bakers filled the tubes with red jelly, while the surgical tools and clamps were solid chocolate, painted over with edible dust (pictured)

She continued: 'My son and I had been in a freak accident, and I cracked my ribs and was unable to decorate cakes for a wee while.

'From there it seemed one thing after another went wrong health-wise, resulting in many surgeries and hospital stays. But I was always taken care of.'

'The surgeons were always so kind, as well as the scrub nurses and I was always treated with care and compassion in theatre and after. I was really touched, and felt compelled to gift them a cake.'

The body of the cake was made by another company, NZ Bakels, and decorated by Nina and her husband - aka Make Pretty Cakes.

She told how the cake was 'so realistic that it fooled experienced surgeons and theatre staff' - and that 300 staff devoured it within 24 hours.

'I worried I'd break it - or worse, spill melted chocolate all over the finished cake,' she explained.

Nina revealed the chocolate surgical tools took several days and many breakages to make. Pictured, the finished heart surgery cake

The mum-of-two - who runs Make Pretty Cakes - said the cake was 'so realistic that it fooled experienced surgeons and theatre staff'. Pictured with John

The body of the cake was made by another company, NZ Bakels, and decorated by Nina (pictured) and her husband - aka Make Pretty Cakes

'The chocolate surgical tools took several days and many breakages to make, but I was so happy with the final result.

'I made heaps, and John helped me shave the chocolate on every single piece!'

A message of thanks from the hospital said: 'The kindness and generosity of Make Pretty Cakes team is beyond description.

'Our entire hospital was touched by the kind gesture to support the 30th anniversary of cardiac surgery in Waikato Cardiothoracic Unit.

'Make Pretty Cakes we cannot thank you enough for the amazing gift that you provided us of you time and unparalleled skill.'

Creative Nina said she started decorating cakes for fun but went into the profession full-time after it became 'a full-blown love affair'.

She added: 'I love love making 3D cakes, and hyper-realistic cakes that people at parties won't forget in a hurry!'

The open heart surgery cake was baked for the 30th anniversary on December 14.

300 members of staff devoured the cake within 24 hours. Pictured, Nina with the heart surgery cake