Bachelor Matt Agnew made headlines last month when he announced his split from the show's winner Chelsie McLeod.

And co-star Nikki Ferris took a swipe at the 32-year-old astrophysicist in an interview with Daily Mail Australia on Thursday.

'I mean, there's a reason people haven't populated Mars yet, and that's because it's a bit dry like Matt!' the 24-year-old quipped.

EXCLUSIVE 'Mars is a bit dry like Matt!' Bachelor star Nikki Ferris (left), 24, took a swipe at Agnew (right), 32, and says 'resilient' Chelsie McLeod is doing well since their split

Hinting that he won't go far in his career in science, Nikki added: 'I wish him all the best in his NAB banking career.'

The New South Wales-based student did however say that Chelsie, 28, is doing 'good' in the wake of their split.

'I have reached out to Chelsie, she is doing good. She is one of the strongest and most resilient people I know, and beyond beautiful, inside and out.'

On November 17, Chelsie and Matt took to their respective Instagram accounts to announce their shock split, just weeks after the Bachelor finale.

Not a fan: 'I mean, there's a reason people haven't populated Mars yet, and that's because it's a bit dry like Matt! I wish him all the best in his NAB banking career,' she quipped

Announcement: On November 17, Chelsie and Matt (both pictured) took to their respective Instagram accounts to announce their shock split, just weeks after the Bachelor finale

Matt informed fans that their relationship did not 'translate from filming to the real, everyday world'.

The Sydney-based personality said he wants Chelsie to 'find the happiness she deserves' and added that there was no one else involved in the split.

Chelsie shared a number of pictures of the pair while thanking fans for support throughout their short-lived relationship.

Informing fans: Matt told his followers that their relationship did not 'translate from filming to the real, everyday world'. He added that there was no one else involved in the split

Meanwhile, Nikki told Daily Mail Australia that she hasn't given up on her own search for love, and is looking for Mr Right.

'I am currently studying important dates in history, and if you want to be one of them, hit me up,' the future graduate joked.

Nikki added that life has been 'crazy post Bachelor' and is 'so grateful to have been a part of this crazy experience'.