Neil Woodford's smaller fund Woodford Income Focus will be taken over by Aberdeen Standard Investments at the end of the year, its administrators have announced.

The £270million fund, which was suspended in October after Woodford quit before he could be fired, is expected to reopen in February under the name ASI Income Focus Fund.

It will be managed by Charles Luke and Thomas Moore, who will be supported by a 16-strong UK equity team led by Andrew Millington.

Failed fund manager Neil Woodford quit Income Focus in October before he could be fired

'We recognise the issues that may have weighed on the minds of investors in the fund over the past months and we are resolute in our determination to turn things around for them,' Millington said today.

'We will reposition the fund into a focused portfolio of our favoured, liquid UK equity income names aiming to generate sustainable long-term income growth for its investors.'

Administrators Link Fund Solutions said that ASI, which will take over management on December 31, was best placed to add value to the fund.

Link, ASI and custodian Northern Trust Global Services said they will waive their fees until May 2020.

Link, which oversees the management of the crumbling Woodford empire, ordered the suspension of Income Focus in October when the fund froze investors' money, as it feared that too many would try to pull their money out and cause the fund to run out of cash.

Link has since been trying to find a new manager to take over from Woodford, or arrange a merger with a rival fund.

Woodford has bagged a more than £280,000 in fees since the suspension on October 15.

He was sacked by Link from managing his Equity Income fund, which had been suspended since the beginning of June after a run of poor performance. It is being wound up by Blackrock and PJT Park Hill.

Before Woodford was humiliated further, he resigned from managing the Income Focus fund and the Patient Capital Trust, which will be taken over by Schroders from next year.

Ryan Hughes of AJ Bell said the two Aberdeen Standard Investments managers were experienced, but raised concerns about the fund being too concentrated.

Is Woodford plotting a Chinese comeback? Neil Woodford is looking into opportunities in China, according to reports. Woodford, along with business partner Craig Newman is meeting Chinese investors who are interested in early-stage assets, people familiar with the matter reportedly said. The reports added that Woodford has been co-investing with a number of Chinese investors for several years.

'Thomas Moore and Charles Luke are both experienced equity income managers but both have underperformed the FTSE All Share Index with their open ended funds over the past five years which may be cause for concern to some investors, despite Moore's longer term track record being impressive.

'One key issue is the type of fund that the duo will now run. The announcement states that the portfolio will be concentrated to around 30 high conviction positions, however, this is significantly more concentrated than the existing funds that they manage which contain around 60 stocks.

'Investors may be heartened to see that there is minimal crossover between Woodford Income Focus and the portfolios managed by Moore and Luke, however, this does indicate that a significant amount of portfolio adjustment will be needed that will result in costs being incurred by investors.'