Jessica Gomes announced on Instagram this month that she's leaving Australian department store David Jones, after eight years as brand ambassador.

And on Thursday, the 35-year-old turned the Los Angeles streets into her runway, as she stepped out for a beverage at a wholefoods market.

The model looked effortlessly chic in a grey sweater, teamed with a coordinating plaid trench coat and dark cuffed jeans.

Making the streets her runway! Model Jessica Gomes, 35, looked effortlessly chic in a trench coat and sneaker ensemble, as she stepped out in Los Angeles on Thursday

Jessica kept light on her feet in white sneakers and slung the latest 'it' bag, the $2,600 (AUD) padded Cassette bag by Bottega Veneta, across her frame.

The star of Portuguese and Chinese descent accessorised further with clear-rimmed glasses, and styled her brunette locks out and straight.

Jessica pared back her makeup look, opting for just defined brows and a natural lip.

On-trend: The brunette slung a $2,600 (AUD) padded Cassette bag by Bottega Veneta across her frame, and accessorised further with clear-rimmed glasses

Earlier this month, Jessica took to Instagram to announce that she's leaving retail giant David Jones as brand ambassador.

'Well, that's a wrap on eight amazing years as Brand Ambassador for David Jones,' she began her post.

'What a privilege and honour it has been to represent this iconic Australian brand that has and continues to be a pioneer in the world of retail and luxury experience.

New chapter: Earlier this month, Jessica took to Instagram to announce that she's leaving Australian retail giant David Jones, after eight years as brand ambassador

Grateful: The star of Portuguese and Chinese descent reflected on the many runways, shooting campaigns and store openings, and said she's thankful for those she has worked with

'It has been so wonderful to grow and evolve together on this collaborative journey, and we have done so creating many magical moments including the launch of my own beauty brand Equal Beauty!'

Jessica reflected on the many runways, campaigns and store openings, and said she's looking forward to 'the next chapter' that is 2020.

The brunette replaced Victoria's Secret model Miranda Kerr as the store's lead female ambassador back in August 2012.

Jessica - who hails from Perth - is now based in Los Angeles and is focussing on an acting career.