A grandmother has been besieged in her own home by hundreds of pigeons as they flock to her next door neighbour's bird feeder.

Kathy Waite began having problems at her home in Skegness, Lincolnshire, in 2017 when she noticed her neighbour had installed a bird feeder in his garden.

The 55-year-old said that she had tried to stop him from feeding the pigeons but that the pair have been embroiled in an ongoing spat ever since.

Kathy Waite has been besieged in her own home in Skegness, Lincolnshire, by hundreds of pigeons as they flock to her next door neighbour's bird feeder

The 55-year-old said that she has tried to stop him from feeding the pigeons since 2017 but that the pair have been embroiled in an ongoing spat ever since

Mrs Waite said that the bird feeder has led to a daily onslaught that left her house looking like something out of the Alfred Hitchcock film The Birds.

She added that for two years she has not had a proper night's sleep because of the 'persistent attacks' by flocks of birds outside her windows.

She claims that it has also rendered her garden unusable because the pigeons 's*** on every inch' of it.

Mrs Waite has reported her neighbour to East Lindsey District Council who have recently ordered him to stop feeding the birds for one month.

The sheer amount of droppings has caused Mrs Waite to avoid going into her garden out of fear of being pelted.

Mrs Waite said that the bird feeder has led to a daily onslaught that left her house looking like something out of the Alfred Hitchcock film, The Birds

The mother-of-six said: 'You can always hear them outside. And when they're approaching it's terrifying because they get louder and louder like war bombers.

'I haven't had a proper night's sleep in two years ever since we moved here.

'I feel completely helpless because for years nothing has been done. I feel under attack every day when they swoop in.

'I've been s*** on myself a couple times so now I'm afraid to go out into the garden.'

Mrs Waite, who works as a cleaner, said the extent of the damage was too much even for her to handle.

The pigeons even found a way to scatter their droppings through the chimney which left a mess in the fireplace.

She said: 'No matter how much or how often I try to clean the mess, it's never enough.

'Our windows are completely covered with their s*** all the time.

'It's not nice to look out and that's all you see.

'They're causing all sorts of damage to my home, corroding the pipes, the roof.

'It's all rotten and disgusting, infested with their s***.

'I had to put up a six-foot fence up just to protect us from those pigeons but they're always covered in bird s***.

'I've had to repaint it twice, but there's no point really. They're relentless.

'I've spent hundreds of pounds just fixing things around the house, in our garden, that they've damaged.

'They have s*** on literally every last inch of my home.'

Mrs Waite has reported her neighbour to East Lindsey District Council who have recently ordered him to stop feeding the birds for one month

Mrs Waite said her children are the ones who are suffering the most and avoid playing in the garden at all costs - despite having previously invested £1,000 into it.

Her 18-year-old son Zak suffers with allergies but has seen his dosage of antihistamine double since moving to the new house - and he now finds himself needing an EpiPen.

Mrs Waite, who is originally from Cambridgeshire, said: 'My son is having serious issues now. He always had allergies but it's much worse.

'He's doubled how much medicine he needs to take, been using his inhaler more often, and we've had to get him an EpiPen.

'My grandson Joe will sit by the window and look at me and say 'the pigeons are here again' and it breaks my heart.

'Not only that, but we've had to replace nearly £300 of toys in the last year.

'I got my grandkid a paddling pool and a bike, but he can't use either because even if they're out for less than a day they're completely covered.

'He's only three but he's too afraid to go outside and play because of the pigeons. He should be outside playing.'

The sheer amount of droppings has caused Mrs Waite to avoid going into her garden out of fear of being pelted. She said that her children are also suffering as they now avoid playing in the garden at all costs

She has now received an email stating that her neighbour will receive a Community Protection Notice from East Lindsey District Council.

The Council's Environmental Health Manager, David Dodds, said: 'The District Council is aware of this matter.

'As a result of further recent evidence of the extent of the feeding, the Council has used powers under the Antisocial Behaviour Crime and Policing Act 2014 in an attempt to reduce the extent of the feeding that is taking place.

'The problem with excessive bird feeding in this area of Skegness has led to high numbers of Pigeons congregating on roofs waiting for food to be distributed.

'This increase is now causing damage to buildings and property. We would ask members of the public not feed birds in this area of the town for the foreseeable future whilst we work to get the issue under control.

'We are not seeking to outlaw feeding of wild birds, particularly in the winter months, but where levels of feeding result in large flocks of the same type of bird this then becomes a problem.'