Elephants were dressed up as Santa Claus to give out presents and candy to students in Thailand in an annual Christmas tradition in the mostly Buddhist country.

The Christmas celebration at the Jirasartwitthaya kindergarten school in Ayutthaya, north of Bangkok, has run for 15 years.

This year four elephants and their mahouts, also wearing Santa hats, visited the school and gave away presents to the students, said Lardthongtare Meepan, owner of the Ayuttahaya Elephant Palace, an elephant camp.

An elephant and his Mahout dressed as Santa Claus perform after distributing presents to pupils during Christmas celebrations at a school in the world heritage city of Ayutthaya, north of Bangkok, Thailand on December 23

An elephant dressed in a Santa Claus costume presents gifts to schoolchildren

An elephant dressed in a Santa Claus costume presents gifts for kindergarten children

A Thai mahout (out of frame) adjusts decorations on the head of his elephant following a Christmas event at a school in the world heritage city of Ayutthaya

'The highlight is not only handing out presents, but also students and elephants are forming a Christmas tree together,' he said.

The elephants danced and showed off tricks to students.

'I'm very happy to see them and they are very cute. I love elephants because it dances very cute,' says Patcharamon Sukpiromsunti, a primary school student.

Mahouts dress their elephants in Santa Claus costumes before a gift presentation to schoolchildren

Elephants dressed in a Santa Claus costume presents gifts to schoolchildren. The Christmas celebration at the Jirasartwitthaya kindergarten school in Ayutthaya, north of Bangkok, has run for 15 years.

Students dress in Santa Claus outfits alongside elephants at a school north of Bangkok on Monday

Elephants perform during the gift-giving event at the Jirasartwitthaya kindergarten school in Ayutthaya

The elephant is Thailand's national animal and appears throughout history and literature.

'It makes me feel like I have a lot of friends. The elephants handing out candies, toys, dolls and so many other things,' student Pasitha Sithapak said.

Thailand is 98% Buddhist, but celebrates Christmas as part of the year-end holiday season.

The elephant is Thailand's national animal and appears throughout history and literature