Bernie Sanders branded Israeli leader Benjamin Netanyahu a 'racist' during last night's Democratic presidential debate.

The Vermont senator said he supported Israel's 'right to exist in peace and security' but said US policy should be both pro-Israel and pro-Palestinian, earning applause.

Sanders might have to work with Netanyahu if he is elected president - although the long-serving Israeli leader faces a battle on multiple fronts to stay in power.

Joe Biden was the only other Democrat to mention Netanyahu by name during the debate - saying that he knew 'Bibi Netanyahu' personally but considered his policies 'outrageous'.

Bernie Sanders branded Israeli leader Benjamin Netanyahu a 'racist' during last night's Democratic presidential debate (he is pictured during the debate in Los Angeles)

At the debate, moderator Yamiche Alcindor asked candidates about the Trump administration's recent pivot on Israel.

Secretary of state Mike Pompeo broke with decades-long precedent by declaring that Israeli settlements in the West Bank do not violate international law.

Sanders replied: 'Israel has - and I say this as somebody who lived in Israel as a kid, proudly Jewish - Israel has the right not only to exist, but to exist in peace and security.

'But what US foreign policy must be about is not just being pro-Israel. We must be pro-Palestinian, as well.

'We must understand that right now in Israel we have leadership under Netanyahu, who has recently, as you know, been indicted for bribery, who, in my view, is a racist.

'What we need is a level playing field in terms of the Middle East, which addresses the terrible crisis in Gaza, where 60 per cent or 70 per cent of the young people are unemployed.

'So what my foreign policy will be about is human rights, is democracy, is bringing people together in a peaceful way, trying to negotiate agreements, not endless wars with trillions of dollars of expenses.'

Israeli leader Benjamin Netanyahu (pictured) has been prime minister since 2009 but was indicted on corruption charges earlier this year

Arab leaders in Israel have also accused Netanyahu of racism after a fractious election campaign in which he questioned the loyalty of the country's Arab minority.

Netanyahu, who has been prime minister since 2009 and previously held the job in the 1990s, was indicted on corruption charges earlier this year.

He has refused to step down, and the country faces an unprecedented third election in a year after two polls in 2019 ended in deadlock.

At the debate, former Vice President Joe Biden said Trump was not being an 'honest broker' in Israel as he called for a two-state solution.

'Bibi Netanyahu and I know one another well. He knows that I think what he's doing is outrageous,' he said.

'What we do is, we have to put pressure constantly on the Israelis to move to a two-state solution, not withdraw physical aid from them in terms of their security.'

South Bend mayor Pete Buttigieg accused Trump of hypocrisy for claiming to be pro-Israel while 'welcoming white nationalists into the White House'.

Sanders gestures during last night's debate, flanked by former Vice President Joe Biden (left) and Minnesota senator Amy Klobuchar (right)

'What we are seeing in the Middle East and around the world are the consequences of this president's failure, this president's refusal to lead,' said Buttigieg.

'It's particularly disturbing in the case of Israel because he has infused domestic politics, making US foreign policy choices in order to effectively interfere in Israeli domestic politics, acting as though that somehow makes him pro-Israel and pro-Jewish, while welcoming white nationalists into the White House.'

The other candidates on stage - Elizabeth Warren, Andrew Yang, Tom Steyer and Amy Klobuchar - were asked different foreign policy questions and did not address Israel.

Biden also voiced regret at the Obama administration's failure to close Guantanamo Bay, calling it an 'an advertisement for creating terror'.

'We attempted to close Guantanamo Bay, but you have to have congressional authority to do it. They've kept it open,' he said.

Warren also called for the camp's closure, saying: 'It not only costs us money, it is an international embarrassment.

'We have to be an America that lives our values every single day.'