Myleene Klass has lost 3st since giving birth to her baby son Apollo four months ago.

The broadcaster, 41, took to Instagram to post a snap as she had her hair done on Thursday, telling her fans she'd promised to treat herself after losing more than half of her 5st weight gain during pregnancy.

The mother-of-three wrote: 'After putting on five stone with my pregnancy, I said I'd get my hair cut after losing three!'

New look: Myleene Klass, 41, has lost 3st since giving birth to her baby son Apollo four months ago (left last month), after gaining five stone during her pregnancy (right in July)

Myleene balanced her adorable baby son on her knee as her hairdresser tended to her locks in the off-guard image.

The TV and radio presenter and her long-term partner Simon Motson welcomed their first child together in August.

Apollo was both Myleene and Simon's third child, but their first as a couple.

The classically-trained musician has two daughters, Ava, 12, and Hero, eight, from her marriage to ex-husband Graham Quinn, 45, while Simon has a son and a daughter from his previous marriage, who are the same age as Myleene's girls.

Transformed: The star shared a snap from a recent trip to the hairdressers telling her fans she'd promised to treat herself after losing more than half of her weight gain

The couple have been together for four years after being introduced through a mutual friend, and Myleene has previously referred to the PR executive as 'the love of my life'.

Myleene recently discussed 'navigating the complexities of a blended family', saying their 'love is very special'.

Writing on her Instagram page in October to celebrate she and Simon's anniversary, Myleene said: '4 years ago, I met Sim. We had both been through pretty identical experiences with regards to our personal lives.

'We came to our relationship with two children each. Today, we have a son together and five children between us! Navigating the complexities of a blended family is something I never imagined myself doing.'

Blended family: Apollo is both Myleene and her long-term partner Simon Motson's third child, but their first together

She continued: 'The sense of achievement when it all goes well not to mention the love is very special indeed. Families come in all shapes and sizes, mine just happens to be fabulously blended... and big!

'As everyone knows, no family, blended or otherwise is perfect but I am so proud of what Sim, myself and our children try to achieve every single day.'

Myleene was previously married to bodyguard Graham, but he left her heartbroken when he walked out of the family home on her 34th birthday in April 2012.

The incident came just six months after the couple's wedding, but they had been together for 11 years at the time, meeting when Graham was bodyguard for Myleene's pop group Hear'Say in 2001.