Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp has outlined the 'massive differences' between the South American and European outlook on winning the FIFA Club World Cup ahead of Saturday's final with Brazilian club Flamengo in Qatar.

The German believes that Flamengo will be 'treated as heroes' and enjoy 'a proper party' if they lift the trophy, while Liverpool have to return home and play Leicester City on Boxing Day.

South American clubs have always placed greater significance in winning global club tournaments as opposed to an attitude of indifference in Europe, something Klopp acknowledged on the eve of the game.

Jurgen Klopp has spoken of the 'massive differences' between Europe and South America when it comes to the FIFA Club World Cup as Liverpool prepare to face Flamengo

Klopp speaks at his press conference ahead of Saturday's final with Flamengo in Qatar

Flamengo players celebrate a goal during their Club World Cup semi-final against Al-Hilal

Flamengo fans have travelled in their thousands from Brazil - reflecting the importance South American teams place on the FIFA Club World Cup

Wild celebrations followed Flamengo's win that carried them to the final against Liverpool

'I don't know how you approach something that has never been done before - like landing on the moon,' he said.

'The situation is different for them and us. They got sent with the clear order to win it and come back as heroes.

'We got told, stay at home and play the Carabao Cup [quarter-final against Aston Villa on Tuesday, which a young Liverpool side lost 5-0]. That is a massive difference and we cannot change that.

'My teams want to win the competition, even if we know it is very difficult. The view on it in Europe is different to that in South America. We want to change that view, we feel it has changed a little bit.

'Of course, Liverpool fans want us to win but lots of the other fans in Europe don't care about the competition. You saw how much Monterrey fought in their two games here and it will be the same with Flamengo.'

The German boss on the training ground ahead of Saturday's final against Flamengo

Virgil van Dijk has recovered from illness after missing the FIFA Club World Cup semi-final

The Flamengo players celebrate their passage into the final by defeating Al-Hilal 3-1

Flamengo striker Gabriel Barbosa salutes their travelling fans after Tuesday's success

Gabriel Barbosa leaps over the advertising boards in order to celebrate with their fans

Liverpool fixtures Premier League unless stated Saturday Flamengo (Doha, Qatar) FIFA Club World Cup final December 26 Leicester City (A) December 29 Wolves (H) January 2 Sheffield United (H) January 5 Everton (H) FA Cup third round January 11 Tottenham Hotspur (A)

Unlike Flamengo, who will receive a hero's welcome if they win the Club World Cup, Klopp said he won't be motivating his squad by saying they'll become legends if they bring the trophy back to Merseyside.

'That is not something I will use in a meeting, that you can become a legend if you win a competition,' said Klopp.

'That keeps your mind away from necessary things. If people see them as legends after, then great, but you cannot approach it like that.

'If Flamengo win it, they will probably have a proper party. We play Leicester City.

'We cannot make this competition bigger for Europe but for us it is the most important for the moment, it is the one game we play tomorrow so let's try everything.'

Virgil van Dijk completed a full training session at Qatar University on the eve of the final

Trent Alexander-Arnold pictured in training on Friday ahead of the final against Flamengo

Liverpool defenders Andy Robertson, Van Dijk and Alexander-Arnold in training

Liverpool face Leicester, their closest challengers at the moment for the Premier League title, at the King Power Stadium, on Boxing Day.

They then face two further home matches in the league against Wolves and Sheffield United over New Year before playing Everton in the third round of the FA Cup.

Klopp confirmed that defender Virgil van Dijk and midfielder Georginio Wijnaldum trained on Friday after illness and injury respectively but didn't definitely confirm they would play in the final.