She shot to fame as Lady Mary Crawley in Downton Abbey and has gone on to become a major Hollywood star.

And Michelle Dockery has opened up about working in 'the golden age of television' while revealing future plans to write or direct in a new interview and high-fashion shoot for NET-A-PORTER’s digital magazine PORTER.

The actress, 38, posed in a series of stunning images for the publication while reflecting on her screen career, Downton Abbey and her forthcoming role in Guy Ritchie's The Gentlemen.

Stunning: Michelle Dockery has opened up about working in 'the golden age of television' while revealing future plans to write or direct in a new interview and high-fashion shoot

The star said she feels like she stepped into acting 'at a time when things were really beginning to change, especially for women'.

She said: 'I do feel I stepped into this industry at a time when things were really beginning to change, especially for women.

'It's the golden age of television, where creators have the luxury of writing 10 hours as opposed to just two, so there's room to explore a character in greater depth.

'It's now becoming much more normal to start a job or to read a part and for me to have a dialogue with the creators – if there are moments where it’s felt the female character is not involved, for example – whereas I guess in the past, it would have felt like more of a fight.'

Future plans: The actress, 38, posed in a series of stunning images for the publication while reflecting on her screen career, Downton Abbey and her forthcoming role in The Gentlemen

But Michelle admitted it can be hard to spot a fan of Downton Abbey - her biggest role to date - and once was 'surprised' that a 'burly' cab driver was a fan of the period drama.

She said: 'I got into a cab a little while ago, and the driver was this big, burly Guy Ritchie type. "Where you going, love?" he said.

'And then it went a bit quiet. And then he was like, "You alright?" And I was like, "Yeah, yeah," and told him about my day.

'And he suddenly went, "Shame about your sister in season 3." And I just laughed out loud. People really surprise me sometimes.'

In 2012's season three, Lady Sybil - Lady Mary's younger sister - died from eclampsia shortly after giving birth to her and Tom Branson's daughter.

Fashion: While working on her most recent project, film The Gentleman, Michelle collaborated with Guy Richie on how her character was dressed - with outfits including a Balmain jumpsuit

And there was more tragedy for Michelle's character as her own husband, Matthew, died in a car crash while driving home from the hospital after she had a baby.

Interestingly, although her hit role as Lady Mary is set in the UK, Michelle said she can walk around more anonymously in Britain than in the US.

She said: 'Brits are too cool to approach you, but in America people have more confidence to come over and say something. It still takes me very much by surprise, but it goes in waves. When the Downton film came out it peaked again.'

Also in the PORTER interview Michelle - who recently found new love with Jasper Waller-Bridge, the brother of Fleabag creator Phoebe - hinted with a glint in her eye that she might be working on her own writing or directing project.

Downton darling: The screen star, pictured in character as Lady Mary Crawley, said she can walk around more anonymously in the UK than in the US as Brits 'are too cool to approach you'

When asked about her aspirations to do so, she said: 'I do think about, you know, doing other things. Right now I'm not sure exactly what, but…'

Michelle's most recent role has been in Guy Ritchie's film The Gentlemen, which is set for release in January 2020.

She plays Rosalind in the film, who is the wife of Matthew McConaughey’s character Mickey, and said her accent 'may come as a bit of a shock' to viewers.

The British actress, who lives in north London, said working on the project with Guy was 'liberating' and she had the chance to improvise some of her scenes.

She revealed: 'There's one scene where I arrive at my garage, and Guy wanted to add a bit of dialogue, just off the cuff.

Career: Discussing her work, the actress (pictured at the Fashion Awards this month) said she feels like she stepped into acting 'at a time when things were really beginning to change'

'I had to be on my toes, and I really enjoyed that. So often when I'm working, the process is very much word for word, and on this film it was malleable. It was liberating.'

Michelle even got to collaborate with Guy on how her character was dressed - getting to wear a range of designer clothes.

She said: 'Even though Rosalind works in a garage, I get to wear the most beautiful Balmain jumpsuit, and the first scene is me walking into the garage in a pair of Louboutins, which is hilarious.

'Rosalind has clearly worked her way up to where she is, really enjoys the lifestyle and having money, but still wants to work. I love that about her character, that she still gets her hands dirty.'

To read PORTER on iPhone, iPad or Android, visit www.net-a-porter.com/porter or download the NET-A-PORTER app from the App Store or Google Play.