Customers of Natwest, RBS and HSBC have been locked out of their accounts after a glitch with their online banking systems.

Both RBS and Natwest reported issues with the services for credit card holders, who were unable to check their balance.

HSBC also tweeted a warning that is is 'aware that some customers are having problems using online and mobile banking.'

Frustrated customers took to Twitter to complain after they had problems accessing their information on the last Friday before Christmas.

A map from Downdetector.co.uk that shows where Natwest customers could not access service on mobile banking

Natwest also tweeted that customers were not able to view their credit card information

The website Downdetector.co.uk revealed hundreds of Natwest customers first complained about the lack of service at around 9.50am.

By 10.50pm, the site reported 620 complaints, with 88 per cent of them being about online banking, and nine per cent aboout mobile banking.

Meanwhile RBS has received around 188 complaints - 88 per cent are about online banking.

HSBC account holders began complaining about 7am, peaking at more than 1,000 complaints shortly before 10am.

The location of HSBC's outages on Downdetector.co.uk. HSBC also tweeted a warning that is is 'aware that some customers are having problems using online and mobile banking

HSBC's sister bank First Direct, which has 1.2million customers, is also reporting issues with online banking around the same time, peaking at more than 700 complaints at 9am.

In a statement on its Twitter page, NatWest and RBS say that the issues are only affecting credit card holders.

The statements read: 'Some customers aren't currently able to view their credit card information on our mobile app or digital banking.

'We're working hard to fix this, sorry if it's causing you any issues.'

HSBC has said in a tweet to customers: 'We're really sorry and are working hard to fix this. Please check back here for the latest updates.'

It's the second time in a month that an online glitch left NatWest and RBS customers locked out - the last time it happened was on Black Friday.

HSBC left customers were also locked out of their accounts thanks to an online banking glitch back in October too.