The Duke and Duchess of Cornwall have released their official 2019 Christmas card, choosing a picture of their visit to Cuba in March.

Prince Charles, 71, and Camilla, 72, are seen driving through Havana in a vintage British 1953 black MG TD, with the first in line to the throne taking the wheel, while his wife waves to the crowds.

The classic white card, placed on a Christmas wreath, features the simple message: 'Wishing you a very Happy Christmas and New Year'.

The photo, which sees them both wearing sunglasses as they arrived at Cuban capital's famous John Lennon Park earlier this year, was taken during their tour of the island in the spring.

The Duke and Duchess of Cornwall have released their official 2019 Christmas card, choosing a picture of their visit to Cuba in March

Last year the Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall's more formal card showed the couple pictured on a bench in their Clarence House garden gazing at each other.

The car shown in this year's card had been lent to the royal couple by Eduardo Bermudez, 47, a local restaurant owner and band manager, who spotted it eight years ago rusting in a garage and persuaded the owner to sell it.

He spent two years doing it up and said at the time that it is the pride and joy of his collection. 'It's just like my baby! ' he said. 'He was crazy to sell it - crazy like me!'

Asked whether he drove it himself, he exclaimed: 'No, never! Well maybe once a month. Everyone knows my car. It is the best British car in Cuba. '

The Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall's 2018 card showed the couple pictured on a bench in their Clarence House garden gazing at each other

Revealing whether he had any reservations about allowing the heir to the throne to get behind the wheel? 'No! Of course I trust him, I know it is in safe hands,' he smiled. 'I am so excited, actually.

'Everyone in Cuba has American cars but for me the British ones are unique, different. The best sports cars come from England in the 1950s.

'The ambassador rang me a week ago and asked me if the prince could borrow it and I said yes, of course. He took it for a practice yesterday, I was told. '

Cuba is well known for its classic cars which are still in use today due to the draconian communist regime.

While most are American classics, there are some British cars and motorbikes from the 1950s on the road and their owners regularly get together.

Twitter account AComdtAC shared the first look at the Cambridge's 2019 Christmas Card. The adorable photograph shows Kate Middleton and Prince William posing on a vintage motorbike with Louis as George and Charlotte perched on the sidecar (pictured)

Charles and Camilla's visit earler this year aimed to offer an opportunity for the UK and Cuban governments to forge closer ties in the wake of the soft diplomacy employed by members of the royal family, who use it to make friends and build bridges during foreign tours.

Amnesty International UK director Kate Allen said at the time: 'While Charles and Camilla aren't formal representatives of the Government, they obviously have influence and if they can use their visit to Havana as an opportunity to raise human rights issues that would be most welcome.'

The release of the Cornwalls' card comes a day after the Cambridges released their Christmas card, which sees Kate Middleton and Prince William pose on a vintage motorbike with Louis as George and Charlotte perch on the sidecar.

The rest of the royal family have yet to release their offical Christmas cards.

The Cornwalls and the Cambridges will be among the royals who join the Queen at Sandringham for their traditional Christmas this year.