Melissa Leong is one of Australia's most respected food writers, so it was no surprise that she was selected as one of MasterChef Australia's new judges.

Now the food critic has described herself as 'the right and the best' person for the show's revamped judging panel and hopes that her presence will open up a larger conversation around diversity.

She told The Daily Telegraph on Friday: 'It is the next chapter, the next breath of air. '

'I am the best person for the job!' New Masterchef judge Melissa Leong says she's ready to showcase her expertise in the next chapter of the competitive cooking show

She said the new iteration of the show will give herself - as well as the other new judges Andy Allen and Jock Zonfrillo - a chance to showcase their skills and expertise.

She also spoke about her role in the program and declared: 'I am the right person and the best person for the job and I hope to have the opportunity to demonstrate what I can do.'

'The fact that it also brings into the conversation diversity and feminism as well, all the better,' she added.

'The next breath of air': She said the new iteration of the show will give herself - and the new judges Andy Allen and Jock Zonfrillo - to showcase their skill and expertise

Melissa's proud and assertive message comes after she explained the reason why she slammed MasterChef in tweets dating back to 2011 and 2012 that marked an embarrassing moment for the newly appointed judge.

Back in 2012 she tweeted: 'What happens when you go on MasterChef & then open a restaurant? Apparently not much. Back to 2nd hand car sales then...'

And responding to a tweet in 2011, Melissa said: 'The biggest mistake an amateur chef can make is going on #masterchef'.

'The comment was actually about entitlement': Melissa proud and assertive message comes after she explained the reason why she slammed MasterChef in tweets dating back to 2011 and 2012 that marked an embarrassing moment for the newly appointed judge

She explained to Stellar: 'The tweet had nothing to do with MasterChef at all. The comment was actually about entitlement.

'In hospitality, we pride ourselves on doing work. And the comment was, "If you want to be a chef, by all means, go on a show like MasterChef, and those doors will open for you".'

She concluded: 'But take that opportunity and use it to go out there and do that hard work.'