Buying a Christmas gift for someone obsessed with cats? Look no further.

From a chic Kate Spade handbag to books about how your pet is plotting to kill you, as well as novelty gifts for your beloved crazy cat lady, there are tons of feline-related gifts you can treat a cat lover to this festive season.

Here are five Christmas gift ideas we reckon would be ideal for a cat lovers.

Add a dash of feline chic to your outfit with this elegant pair of pearl cat stud earrings, adorned with golden sterling silver cat ears.

The jiamiaoi pearl cat earrings are made with high quality freshwater cultured pearls that shine. They are also available in sterling silver, rose gold tone and black pearls with gold cat ears.

One Amazon shopper wrote: 'I love these fresh water pearl studs, and I love cats, so these earrings are a perfect combination. I wear them almost every day to work and I've had many compliments on them.

'They are also pretty sturdy and solid, not too small but not so large as to look gimmicky or cheap. I recommend them highly with no reservations'

Buy now on Amazon

Do you know a cat lover who deems themselves a crazy cat lady? Let them revel in all their feline glory with this cute black cat mug and coaster set available on Amazon.

The black ceramic mug features a cat face illustration, and the coaster reads the words 'Crazy cat lady' in gold metallic scrawl.

This would make an ideal stocking filler or Secret Santa gift. Even better, you'll feel good about shopping this festive season, as a percentage of proceeds from your purchase is donated to Llys Nini, an Animal Charity in Swansea, Wales.

Buy now on Amazon

One of our personal favourites, this Kate Spade handbag can be used as a both a crossbody (with adjustable strap) and a chic clutch bag.

Featuring blush pink cat ears, rose-coloured heart-shaped jewel nose and gold tone metal whiskers, the Kate Spade leather mini is ideal for both day and night.

One avid feline fan wrote: 'I'm a big cat lover and thought the cat handbag was adorable. It's a conversation piece and the perfect size for me. I'm happy with the purchase'.

The bag is currently £99, but you can now also get an extra 20 per cent off sale handbags at Kate Spade with the code EXTRA20.

Buy now on Kate Spade

Inspired by fashion designer Karl Lagerfeld's beloved pet Choupette, these stunning yellow gold-plated stud earrings feature the famous cat's silhouette motif and have been crafted with glittering Swarovski crystals for an ultra-elegant finish.

Versatile and stylish, this charming pair of stud earrings is perfect to update your everyday style with a touch of feline chic, or will make a luxurious Christmas gift for any Karl Lagerfeld fan or cat lover.

Buy now on Ernest Jones

How to Tell If Your Cat Is Plotting to Kill You will reveal all about what your purring pet is capable of doing. TheOatmeal.com creator Matthew Inman brings you this whimsical yet informative book filled with comics, quizzes and stories all about your favourite feline creatures.

One Amazon shopper wrote: 'Got this as a gift for a friend. I thought it was a fun read, but in between it arriving and my wrapping it, I found the cat ominously tucked up in a corner with it.

'Cats are now aware of this and will likely adapt their plans accordingly. I fear I may not last much longer; she's scratching at the door as I type. Purchase this book at your own peril.'

Buy now on Amazon

Amazon subscription deals Amazon Music Unlimited 4 months, now £0.99 (was £9.99 pm) Amazon is giving UK music lovers the chance to stream four months of Amazon Music Unlimited service for under one pound (that’s a saving of nearly £39). You don't need to be a Prime member to take advantage of this amazing deal, but this trial promotion is only available for new subscribers. Offer valid till January 6th 2020. View offer Premier League live on Prime Video 20 Premier League games will be live and exclusive on Prime Video this December. For the first time ever in the UK all games on the 26 and 27 December will be shown. Existing Amazon Prime customers will be able to access these Premier League fixtures for free. Start your 30 day free trial now (£7.99 pm after trial period). View offer

Check out our discount section for Christmas deals and offers.

MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.