A dad blogger who surprised everyone in 2018 by snatching the Christmas number one from under the nose of global pop star Ariana Grande has bagged the 2019 Christmas number one with his second sausage-themed song this year.

Father-of-two, Mark Hoyle, from Nottingham, who bagged the number one last Christmas Day with with his comedy parody 'We Built This City...On Sausage Rolls' has chosen another piggy tune, which has taken the lead over Stormzy, Ed Sheeran's and Burna Boy's 'Own It'.

Beating the likes of Lewis Capaldi and Dua Lipa, his reinvented Joan Jett's 1982 classic 'I love Rock 'n' Roll' song, which replaces rock 'n' roll with...sausage roll, has stormed the chart and been crowned the 2019 Christmas number one.

The win sees him join the likes of The Beatles and The Spice Girls as the few artists who have made the number one for two years in a row, with proceeds going to foodbank charity The Trussell Trust.

Dad blogger Mark Hoyle, from Nottingham, has secured his second Christmas number one with his parody song 'I love Sausage Rolls', beating Ed Sheeran and Stormzy

Mark Hoyle, seen with wife Roxanne and their sons Coby and Phoenix, raised enough for 70,000 emergency food packages last year and hopes to do the same this year

Finding out that he had reached Number 1, LadBaby said: 'Thank you. This is unbelievable, isn't it? The generosity of people at Christmas. Thank you so much for doing this and helping so many people who don't have a lot at Christmas.

'Last year, the song raised enough for 70,000 emergency food packages for the charity. If we can raise anywhere near that again then, yeah, it's unbelievable.'

As of yesterday, Ladbaby's song had sold 77,988 copies, while Stormzy and Ed Sheeran's song Own It shifted 49,252 units, placing them at number two.

His reinvented Joan Jett's 1982 classic 'I love Rock 'n' Roll' song, which replaces rock 'n' roll with...sausage roll, has has taken the lead over Stormzy, Ed Sheeran's and Burna Boy's 'Own It'

This week he appeared on This Morning with his wife Roxanne and their sons Coby and Phoenix.

This week, dressed in sausage roll onesies, his family had This Morning hosts Eammon Holmes and Ruth Langsford chair-dancing as a video of them singing the catchy tune played.

The blogger's young son, Phoenix, couldn't resist tucking into one of the sausage rolls placed in front of him, prompting Eamonn to ask 'are you rearing sausage roll addicts?'

Last year, Mark's ode to sausage rolls raised enough for 70,000 food packages for the single go to The Trussell Trust, which supplies food banks.

Mark and wife Roxanne in the video for their latest 'banger', a reinvention of Joan Jett's 1982 classic hit 'I love Rock 'n' Roll'

According to the Official Charts Company, the song sold 75,000 combined sales in the last week, of which 93 per cent were downloads.

This meant it finished 18,500 units ahead of Max's Sweet But Psycho, which claimed runner-up, while Ariana's single was forced into third place.

The track was the first novelty song to become Christmas number one since Bob The Builder's Can We Fix It? in 2000.

Back-to-back bangers: Mark with his wife Roxanne and his sons Coby and Phoenix, beat Ariana Grande to the festive no 1 in 2018 and is hopeful he'll be top of the pops again this year - appearing on This Morning this week