Christmas came a few days early at the Adelaide Zoo this year as animals were seen opening up their presents after a surprise visit from Santa.

Pandas, orangutans, tortoises, and various other animals were as excited as kids on Christmas morning after receiving gifts from zookeepers on Monday.

The zoo's volunteer group made sure to look after their wildlife during the season of giving by crafting adorable packages in the form of animal enrichment gifts.

Scroll down for video

Furry Christmas: Puspa the orangutan was seen examining her present at Adelaide Zoo on Monday

What could it be? Panda Wang Wang is seen peeking into his boot-shaped present before tearing into it

The zoo's volunteer group made sure to look after their wildlife during the season of giving by crafting adorable packages in the form of animal enrichment gifts. Above, tortoises are given their presents by reptile keeper Daniel Saliba

Photos showed animals curiously picking at their treats, complete with festive holiday wrapping paper and a bow. Puspa, the orangutan with her present at Adelaide Zoo

Photos showed animals curiously picking at their treats, complete with festive holiday wrapping paper and a bow.

A group of meerkats were seen eagerly inspecting their gifts after it was presented to them in the shape of Christmas tree.

Panda Wang Wang was photographed peeking into his stocking-shaped box before tearing into the package.

Jason Hakof, the zoo's carnivores and primates team leader, said the reactions were commonplace from the animals who tend to get excited when they discover something new in their homes.

Zookeepers said the animals tend to get excited whenever they discover something new in their homes

Some animals were seen digging into their gifts straightaway, while others were more inquisitive

Christmas cheer: Bird keeper Paul Kotz gives the Black Cockatoos their presents

'It's quite funny to see all the different reactions to the presents – it really is like watching little kids run up to the Christmas tree on Christmas morning,' he said.

'Some will just tear straight into their present while others will be a bit more inquisitive and take their time investigating first.'

The zoo said it uses enrichment this way to provide variety for the animals and create 'an environment that allows for physical and mental choices and challenges, as well as encouraging the use of natural behaviours.'

Adelaide Zoo is open 365 days a year, including Christmas and New Year's for those looking to spend the holidays with the adorable creatures.