Laura Whitmore was announced as the new Love Island host on Friday, taking over the role from Caroline Flack.

And in a statement sent out by ITV, the 34-year-old made a hilarious reference to her comedian beau, who is the show's resident voiceover.

She wrote: 'The Love Island team are the best in the business… including the voice and heart of the show, Iain. He thought he was getting a holiday away from me… not a chance!'

'He thought he was getting a holiday away from me… no chance!' New Love Island host Laura Whitmore made a hilarious reference to boyfriend Iain Stirling as she joins him on show (stock photo)

Laura and Iain, 31, have been in a relationship since June 2017 and no doubt they will be thrilled to be working together.

They are thought to be flying out to South Africa in a couple of weeks to begin work on the show, which will air on January 12.

Laura will present the main show which airs nightly at 9pm on ITV2 as regular presenter Caroline Flack stands down for this series.

She will also host Love Island: Aftersun, which will air on ITV2 live from London on Monday nights at 10pm.

Love: Laura and Iain, 31, have been in a relationship since June 2017 and no doubt they will be thrilled to be working together

The first series of the year comes from a brand new location and villa in Cape Town where a host of new Islanders will try to win the hearts of each other - and the nation - in the ultimate search for love.

Laura said: 'To say I’m excited to be heading to Cape Town to host Love Island, the biggest show on television, is an understatement.

'I want to thank ITV for trusting me at the helm of this huge show. I wish it was in better circumstances; Caroline is a brilliant host and also a friend.

'We’ve spoken a lot in the last few days since she stepped down. She has been very kind to me and strongly pushed me for this role. I’ve watched her host every series and know I have big boots to fill. I will try and do it justice.

Flirty: Laura left a cheeky comment under Iain's snap on Wednesday

'Above all, I am a massive fan of this show. I’ve never been to a Love Island villa, and I can’t wait to get in there to meet all the new Islanders looking for love.

'The Love Island team are the best in the business… including the voice and heart of the show, Iain. He thought he was getting a holiday away from me… not a chance!'

Head of Digital Channels and Acquisitions, Paul Mortimer, said: 'I’m delighted that Laura is able to step in this winter on ITV2’s biggest show.

'She is the best person for the job and is a popular and experienced presenter of live television. Whilst Caroline is away, we know that Love Island will be in very safe hands.'

Soon after the announcement Laura's boyfriend and Love Island voiceover Iain Stirling voiced his support, as she shared a selfie and jokingly wrote: 'The new #loveisland host seems nice... I wonder if she's single.'

Keeping her seat warm? Clean-cut Laura is good friends with Caroline, 40, and she said she encouraged her to take the role on series six (pictured together in January)

Sweet: Soon after the announcement Love Island voiceover Iain Stirling shared a selfie with his girlfriend and jokingly wrote: 'The new #loveisland host seems nice... I wonder if she's single'

Caroline also publicly showed her support for Laura soon after the announcement was made on Friday.

She wrote on Instagram Stories: 'I'm glad it's Laura... She loves the show as much as I do... again... thank you for your continuous messages of support... it's a really rough time... but I'm doing all I can to keep my head above water and sort this all out...'

She stepped down after she was charged with assault last Friday following a row with at the north London home she shares with boyfriend Lewis Burton, 27.

Meanwhile, Laura left a cheeky comment under a picture Iain posted to his Instagram on Wednesday.

Supportive: Caroline shared this post soon after the announcement was made that Laura will host the show in her place

Looking as sharp as ever, he posed in a crisp brown suit, with an amused Laura,focusing her attention on the form-fitting nature of his attire by sharing emojis of a camel and a toe.

The comedian appeared in great spirits as he uploaded the picture from his dressing room.

Iain joked about garnering attention from his fans in the image caption: 'A funny caption to lessen the absolute thirst of this post! EDIT: reading your comments, glad my penis is finally getting the attention it deserves.'

No doubt Laura, who has a squeaky clean image, is a safe choice for ITV who won't want to take any risks with who they hire in Caroline's place.

The pair met in 2016 but it wasn't until the following summer that things turned romantic between them.

Iain said last year during an appearance on the Chris Ramsey show: 'I’ve got someone who’s like me, but much, much better. And Laura’s got someone who’s like her, but much worse. I’ve done well out of it, but I’m dead happy because she’s lovely and stuff.'

They will already have to pay for costly reshoots after Caroline had already filmed promotional material in South Africa for the show which will begin on January 12.

Drama: Caroline stepped down as the host of season six on Tuesday after her assault charge following a row with her boyfriend Lewis Burton (pictured in October)

Common assault according to the UK Sentencing Council Common assault (section 39, Criminal Justice Act 1988) A person is guilty of common assault if they either inflict violence on another person – however slight this might be – or make that person think they are about to be attacked. They do not have to be physically violent – for example, threatening words or a raised fist could lead the victim to believe they are going to be attacked – and that is enough for the crime to have been committed. Other acts like spitting at someone may also classed as common assault. The offence covers both intentional and reckless acts. For example, the offender may not have intended to cause the victim to think an attack was imminent but if they behaved in way that was likely to make the victim think they were about to be attacked, and they didn't care what effect that behaviour would have, the offender is guilty of the offence. If violence is used in a common assault, it is called a 'battery' and the perpetrator would be charged with 'assault by beating'. This does not however, mean that the victim was actually 'beaten up' or even hit or kicked – it could be that they were pushed, grabbed or spat at. The victim may not therefore have suffered any physical injury, and if any injury was caused, it would need to be quite minor to fall under common assault. The maximum sentence allowed by law for common assault is six months imprisonment, and cases can only be heard in the magistrates' court. If the assault is racially or religiously aggravated, the maximum sentence is two years imprisonment and cases can be heard in the Crown Court as well.

On Tuesday, it was first reported that Laura met with bosses in secret to discuss the possibility of the role , following Caroline's decision to quit.

Laura is no stranger to presenting a Love Island-esque reality show for ITV, as she presented Survival Of The Fittest in January 2018.

Presenter Caroline first broke her silence on Instagram earlier in the week and wrote: 'There have been a significant number of media reports and allegations in regard to my personal life.

'While matters were not as have been reported I am committed to co-operating with the appropriate authorities and I can't comment further on these matters until the legal process is over.

'However Love Island has been my world for the last five years, it's the best show on telly. In order not to detract attention from the upcoming series I feel the best thing I can do is stand down from Series 6.

'I want to wish the incredible team working on the show a fantastic series in Cape Town.'

Caroline continued: 'And on a really personal level. I have never experienced such kindness and love in my whole life.

'Not just from friends and family who are always the greatest but also from total strangers who send messages to me offering help and understanding... Please know that I see them and my boyfriend Lewis. I love you x.'

An ITV spokesperson told MailOnline shortly after her post: 'ITV has a long standing relationship with Caroline and we understand and accept her decision.

'We will remain in contact with her over the coming months about future series of Love Island.'

The former X Factor host is expected to appear on bail at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court on Monday, December 23.