A terrified four-year-old boy was attacked by a 15ft scrub python that tried to drag him away in his backyard.

Clifford Thompson was rushed to hospital with nasty bite wounds after the savage attack last week.

His dad Evan had just moved into his new house at Airlie Beach in north Queensland and was hosting a housewarming when the beast struck.

'We had a few other families over and there were about six kids in the pool that I was keeping an eye on,' Mr Thompson told Daily Mail Australia.

Clifford Thompson in Mackay Hospital after being attacked by the 15 foot scrub python

Mr Thompson said his mate hit the snake with a sledgehammer after it kept going after his son

'Then I heard scream from behind me on the deck and I turned around to see this massive python latched onto my son's leg'.

His son, Clifford Thomspon, was holding onto a railing for his life as the snake tried to drag him off the deck.

'If I wasn't there this snake would have killed him.'

Mr Thompson said he rushed over and instinctively punched the snake in the head and it let go of his boy.

The scrub python that tried to drag Mr Thompson's son of the deck in his backyard on Thursday

The injuries the young boy sustained from the snake attack in Airlie Beach on Thursday evening

Clifford was rushed to Mackay Hospital where he remained overnight (pictured with his father Evan Thompson)

'Within a split second it bit him again so I grabbed it by the throat and pried its jaws open - I managed to break its jaw.'

He said when the snake still tried to go after his son he grabbed it by the tail and yelled for someone to get weapon.

'My mate and my wife went to the toolshed and found a sledgehammer and my mate hit it'.

'If it had let go of my son when I first punched it I might have let it go but it was so aggressive I couldn't go to work with this thing crawling around my house.'

'I've dealt with snakes before but nothing like this it would have been 15 foot.'

'I have a three-year-old daughter as well, we're just glad it didn't grab her.'

The ordeal lasted about five minutes and his son's leg had a large tear and smaller marks where the snake bit him.

He said he put a compression bandage on Clifford's wounds and called an Ambulance which rushed him to Proserpine Hospital and then onto Mackay.

Surgery was done on Friday morning to clean up and stitch the wound and Clifford is now on antibiotics and expected to recover.

Clifford Thomspon, 4, and his father Evan Thompson at Mackay Hospital on Friday

Evan Thompson and his family (pictured) recently moved into the Airlie Beach property