His family have sold the rare collectibles in accordance with his wishes

Worked as a GP in London and also served in the Army but died earlier this year

One man's epic collection of retro eighties' toys has been sold for £220,000 by his family following his death.

Dr Cornel Flemming, a GP from London, amassed more than 1,600 toy action figures and cars for franchises like Star Wars, He-Man and Transformers, making it one of the largest privately held collections of Science Fiction and Military toys.

The market for nostalgic toys is booming at the moment which is reflected in the prices some of the toys achieved.

An unopened pack of three He-Man figures featuring He-Man, Teela and Ram Man made by Mettel sold for an incredible £12,000.

Dr Cornel Flemming, a GP from London, amassed more than 1,600 toy action figures and cars during his lifetime. Pictured: A sealed Hasbro 1984 G1 Transformers Wheeljack race car, with the original £9.99 price tag still on it

Dr Flemming died earlier this year at the age of 82 and his family sold the collection in accordance with his wishes. The Masters of the Universe Heroic Warriors 3-pack, which includes He-Man, Teela, and Ram Man sold for a stunning £12,000

12 used vintage Star Wars backing cards were sold without the toys for a massive £1,560. The Star Wars franchise has proved to be one of the most lucrative collectible sets in the world

The small plastic figures are all pristine original condition having been kept in their sealed boxes.

Another model of He-Man and his spaceship 'Wind Raider' sold for £4,800.

Dr Cornel Flemming, who died earlier this year aged 82, made it his wish that his action figure collection would be shared with the collecting community

Away from the superhero franchise, a lot containing Bumblebee, Huffer and Cliffjumper from Transformers sold for whopping £4,080.

The Hasbro toys, which were made in 1984, and had been expected to sell for just £80.

One of the most surprising lots was a collection of 12 empty back cards for Star Wars figures.

Despite the fact that the likes of Chewbacca, Princess Leia and Han Solo have been removed from the packaging a long time ago the 12 bits of cardboard sold for £1,560.

Auctioneers Vectis said that most of the winning bidders are people who are of an age where they have more disposable income and are recapturing the toys of their youth.

A spokesman for Vectis, based in Stockton-on-Tees, Durham, said: 'As with a lot of rare collectors items it is hard to put estimates on them as they hardly come up for auction, this is why our specialists placed a relatively low estimate on these toys.

'The lots then found their own price on the market as bidders vied for them and the low estimates enticed more bids.

'The condition of the lots is also a big factor and many of these top selling pieces were in mint condition.

The market for nostalgic toys is booming at the moment which is reflected in the prices some of the toys achieved. A set of Doctor Who Pewter Daleks Salt & Pepper and Doctor Who Pewter Dalek Table Lighter sold for £360

Auctioneers Vectis said that most of the winning bidders are people who are of an age where they have more disposable income and are recapturing the toys of their youth. Pictured: Sealed Tommy Gunn action figures, with a guide price of £40-60

Tommy Gunn figures - Cosmic Commander and Ciadoz the Alien - with their opened packaging, which were estimated to sell for £30-50

'The condition of the lots is also a big factor and many of these top selling pieces were in mint condition,' said a spokesman for auctioneers Vectis. Pictured: Super Powers Collection sealed Superman figure

'The numbers of bids and the high prices realised show just how desirable these pieces are.

'As people hit an age where they have some disposable income and they hanker after toys of their past, we have started see much more interest in this genre of collectible toy.'

Dr Flemming worked as a GP in London for many years and also served in the army in his younger days.

Away from the superhero franchise, a lot containing 1984 Transformers x three, Bumblebee, Huffer and Cliffjumper sold for £4,080

A Doctor Who vintage Leela model. The character, and companion to Tom Baker's fourth doctor, was portrayed by Louise Jameson and first appeared in the 1977 episode The Face of Evil

A spokesman for Dr Flemming's family said: 'For some, items will have completed their set. For others, it may be just the start of catching the auction or collecting bug.' Pictured: Hasbro 1986 G1 Transformers Motormaster

Pictured: A Mattel Captain Future, Future Comet space set

He died earlier this year at the age of 82 and his family sold the collection in accordance with his wishes.

A spokesman for his family added: 'It was always known that when he passed, his collection would be shared with the world and the idea of this was something he always liked.

'He was keen that his passion, his attention to detail and the sheer size of the collection would eventually be shared with the wider collecting community.

'For some, items will have completed their set. For others, it may be just the start of catching the auction or collecting bug.'