She recently unveiled the results of her incredible one stone weight loss.

And Frankie Essex looked sensational in a festive red bodycon dress as she enjoyed a Christmas night out at the Zuma eatery in London on Thursday night.

The former reality star, 31, flaunted her jaw-dropping curves in the Christmas hued dress as she stepped out for a night of partying.

Gorgeous: Frankie Essex looked sensational in a festive red bodycon dress as she enjoyed a Christmas night out at the Zuma eatery in London on Thursday night

Frankie proudly displayed her trim figure as she headed into the Japanese eatery in a busty red midi dress with pretty frilled straps.

The Essex beauty accessorised the dress with a Louis Vuitton-style handbag and pretty pointed-toe heels with girly bows.

After unveiling her recent transformation, Frankie was in high spirits as she headed into the lavish eatery in the capital for some pre-Christmas fun.

Amazing: The former reality star, 31, flaunted her jaw-dropping curves in the Christmas hued dress as she stepped out for a night of partying

Frankie recently unveiled the results of her weight loss after shedding the pounds through strength training, a healthy diet and only consuming alcohol twice this year.

Speaking to Closer Magazine about her fitness earlier this year, she said: 'My arms and my legs have toned up and I feel stronger. I've got a flatter tummy and a smaller waist without doing any stomach exercises. It's even tightened the loose skin on my belly.'

The beauty, who has also dropped two dress sizes and is a slender size 8-10, added: 'l'll never be a slim girl, and I don't want to be skinny, I've got a bum! Accepting my curves has been good for me.'

The sister of Joey Essex also revealed that she has a new boyfriend, as she explained: 'Yes, I'm in a relationship. We've been seeing each other for a few months, and I'm really happy. He treats me well and is very, very, supportive in every way, we're good together.'

New look: Frankie recently unveiled the results of her weight loss after shedding the pounds through strength training, a healthy diet and only consuming alcohol twice this year

Frankie's new lifestyle follows her two stone weight gain which was a result of her not being able to work out due to an injury.

A friend of hers told The Sun: 'Frankie had a terrible year of not being able to exercise due to a knee injury.

'She still can't exercise and is the biggest she has ever been. She's put on 2 stone. It's really getting her down but she has the all clear now and is determined to get back into great shape in 2019.'