A Target toy catalogue has resurfaced from 1978 complete with a 'fuzzy pumper' beauty shop, weaving loom pack and Holly Hobbie sewing machine.

The Old Shops Australia Facebook group debuted the Christmas pamphlet by joking that there would be 'no need to Afterpay it because the Toltoys Family Treehouse is under $20'.

But that price tag 40 years ago would be close to $105 in 2019, making them expensive for their time.

While some of the gifts might sound foreign to the average millennial a host of children who grew up in the 70s and 80s chimed in to say they were extremely thankful for these games.

A Target toy catalogue has resurfaced from 1978 complete with a 'fuzzy pumper' beauty shop, weaving loom pack and Holly Hobbie machine

'The $8.95 fuzzy pumper barber and beauty shop started my career,' one hairdresser said of the Playdoh-hair figurines that grew long locks.

Meanwhile someone else recalled having the $4.55 music jewellery box that had a dancing ballerina inside; the perfect present for a pirouette-loving little girl.

Others were taken by the most expensive item, the treehouse, which at $19.55 would be the equivalent of spending $105 today.

It features 'the lovable little Tree Tots who live, work and play in this magical tree' the product description read.

You can still purchase them on eBay today at the inflated price of $90, with many people arguing its worth it just to have the collectable.

The Holly Hobbie ($15.55) was a crowd favourite as it was marketed towards girls who wanted to 'sew like their mum does'.

Many of the original owners of these products have kept them to pass down to their own children in Christmases to come (stock image)

Meanwhile the $10.55 weaving loom could be purchased for either boys or girls who were interested in making patterns and shapes using yarn.

One of the Facebook comments spoke about why these items were so popular 40 years ago.

'These toys required YOUR imagination to make them work. There were even handicrafts... Can't see them going down as desired gifts in the age of mobile phones and Playstations,' it read.

Many of the original owners of these products have kept them to pass down to their own children in Christmases to come.