Unexpected emissions of banned gases from China could delay the recovery of the hole in the ozone layer above the Antarctic by almost 20 years, a study has found.

The ozone layer is important to life as it acts like a shield — filtering out the Sun's harmful ultraviolet rays before they reach the Earth's surface.

The production of ozone-damaging chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) — used as refrigerants and foaming agents — is restricted by the Montreal Protocol of 1987.

Following the protocol's implementation, it was expected that the size of the ozone hole above the Antarctic would return to its 1980 level by the late 21st century.

In 2018, however, scientists reported that emissions of trichlorofluoromethane (CFC-11) had not been continuing to decline as expected since the mid-2000s.

CFC-11 contributes around a quarter of the man-made chlorine transported into the stratosphere which reacts with and breaks down ozone.

The unexpected emissions have been attributed to Chinese factories using the banned chemicals in the production of insulating foam.

According to the experts, however, the impact of the emissions has been limited so far — and their rapid halt could reduce the delay in the hole's recovery to a few years.

Scroll down for video

Unexpected emissions of banned gases from China could delay the recovery of the hole in the ozone layer above the Antarctic — seen here in 2006, at its largest — by almost 20 years

Atmospheric scientist Martyn Chipperfield of the University of Leeds and colleagues used a detailed model of chemical transport within the atmosphere to explore how the unexpected CFC-11 emissions will impact the ozone layer's recovery.

The team considered three different scenarios, including ones in which emissions are stopped immediately, are phased out over the next decade, or are allowed to continue at their current levels.

According to their models, the impact of the unexpected CFC-11 emissions has, to date, been relatively limited — but their continued release will likely delay the recovery of the ozone layer to its 1980 state by around 18 years.

'Renewed production and emission of CFC-11 will delay the recovery of the ozone layer,' the researchers wrote in their paper.

'For the Antarctic ozone hole, there is a clear link between the additional amount of chlorine injected into the stratosphere, the additional polar ozone loss and the delay to recovery,' they added.

'However, even if the renewed production so far is for closed-cell foam use, immediate effective measures to stop this could imply a delay of just a few years.'

The ozone layer is important to life as it acts like a shield, filtering out the Sun's harmful ultraviolet rays before they reach the Earth's surface — but it can be broken down by the release of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), which are used as refrigerants and foaming agents

WHAT ARE CHLORO-FLUOROCARBONS (CFCS)? Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are nontoxic, nonflammable chemicals containing atoms of carbon, chlorine, and fluorine. They are used in the manufacture of aerosol sprays, blowing agents for foams and packing materials, as solvents, and as refrigerants. CFCs are classified as halocarbons, a class of compounds that contain atoms of carbon and halogen atoms. Individual CFC molecules are labelled with a unique numbering system. For example, the CFC number of 11 indicates the number of atoms of carbon, hydrogen, fluorine, and chlorine. Whereas CFCs are safe to use in most applications and are inert in the lower atmosphere, they do undergo significant reaction in the upper atmosphere or stratosphere where they cause damage.

'Should this renewed production be allowed to continue the impact will be correspondingly more severe, and for the Antarctic ozone hole, can be estimated directly from the chlorine-loading enhancement,' noted the researchers.

'However, with swift action to curb this production and any other, the long-term success of the [Montreal] protocol will be ensured.'

The full findings of the study were published in the journal Nature Communications.