Karl Stefanovic will have some hard work ahead of him when he returns to the Today show in 2020 alongside co-host Allison Langdon.

According to media analyst Steve Allen, the 45-year-old will need to make some serious ratings gains over rival breakfast show, Sunrise.

Speaking to The Daily Telegraph, Steve Allen reveals: 'In the next year, if they can half that deficit between Today and Sunrise, that would be a fantastic outcome.'

A tall order! An expert said on Friday that say Karl Stefanovic (right) will be expected to 'half the deficit between Today and Sunrise' when he returns to the breakfast show in 2020. Pictured alongside co-host Allison Langdon

He added: 'That's my thinking. They just need to see that huge gap narrow.'

In order for his comeback to be considered a success, Mr Allen says, 'making any kind of substantial dent in the gap' is required of Karl.

It comes after media commentator Rob McKnight says all eyes will be on Nine come January 6, when the breakfast TV program launches a week earlier than usual.

'There are plenty who are still loyal to Karl and he will provide the biggest switch-on factor,' Rob told Daily Mail Australia on Thursday.

Speaking to The Daily Telegraph, media expert Steve Allen reveals: 'In the next year, if they can half that deficit between Today and Sunrise, that would be a fantastic outcome'. Pictured right: The cast of Sunrise

Today's January launch date has sparked rumors the stars of Sunrise will return early from their holidays to go head-to-head during Karl's anticipated return.

Rob, the former executive producer of Studio 10 and editor of industry website TV Blackbox, said: 'Sunrise hasn't maintained its number one position by being complacent.

'They will throw everything at Today in order to hold their strong lead, including bringing their main presenting team back early.'

If you can't beat them! In order for his comeback to be considered a success, Mr Allen says, 'making any kind of substantial dent in the gap' is required of Karl. Pictured: David Koch and Samantha Armytage of Sunrise

Eyes on him! It comes after media commentator Rob McKnight says all eyes will be on Nine come January 6, when the breakfast TV program launches a week earlier than usual

However, while Rob said viewers will no doubt tune in for Karl for the 'curiosity factor', he said 'the show will need to do more to hold them'.

'The viewers will run a mile if the show is boring compared to Sunrise. And considering the show is going to be very newsy, Karl's biggest fans could lose interest,' Rob speculated.

He added: 'Nine had to make changes to the Today show after a disastrous year, but personally I don't think they've made the right changes to become number one.'