Tyde Levi Mellet is a budding pop star who wants to strike out on his own despite his family connection.

The 19-year-old, who goes by Tyde Levi, is the younger brother of Australian superstar Troye Sivan, 24.

Speaking to The Daily Telegraph, the singer says: 'I want people to know me for who I am and for the things I do, not for being Troye's brother.'

'I want people to know me for who I am': Pop star Troye Sivan's younger brother Tyde Levi (pictured) has revealed he is launching a music career with his new single

He went on to reveal that he was sometimes hurt by the comparisons between the pair.

'Sometimes it hurts, I've been in an interview where I've just been introduced as Troye Sivan's brother and not my name,' he says.

The young performer also insists the pair make very different music, with Troye leaning more towards electronic pop.

Bros: The 19-year-old, who goes by Tyde Levi, is the younger brother of Australian superstar Troye Sivan, 24 (left)

Speaking to The Daily Telegraph , the singer says: 'I want people to know me for who I am and for the things I do, not for being Troye's brother'

Instead, Tyde focuses on a more 'left of centre' pop style with more psychedelic rock elements.

Tyde in making musical strides and has a new single, Flying So Far, out now, from his self-titled EP.

He's also set to release new music next year, but makes ends meet packing boxes in between tours.

He went on to reveal that he was sometimes hurt by the comparisons: 'Sometimes it hurts, I've been in an interview where I've just been introduced as Troye Sivan's brother and not my name,' he says

On tour: The singer supported Troye recently on his Australian and Chinese tours and took to Instagram to thank his sibling for the opportunity

The singer supported Troye recently on his Australian and Chinese tours and took to Instagram to thank his sibling for the opportunity.

'Thank u from the bottom of my heart. Every night blew my mind. So grateful for the people around me. @troyesivan I love u,' he wrote in early December.

Both brothers go by their first and middle names instead of their full names, but share the surname Mellet.