Former Bachelor and personal trainer Sam Wood has built a health and fitness.

And for this coming Christmas and New Year the health and fitness guru, 39, has revealed his top tips for not overindulging this festive season.

He explained to The Daily Telegraph that those looking to keep any extra kilos off, or to even drop a few, should change one unhealthy habit such as additional snacking or not working out, and making a rule about it.

REVEALED: This coming Christmas and New Year health and fitness guru Sam Wood has revealed his top tips for not overindulging this festive season

From here, Sam advises that you make a rule that you won't break that relates to this unhealthy habit, therefore turning it into a good one.

He also advised not to resort to crash dieting after indulging in something decadent.

'The best thing to do is make your next snack or your next meal a healthy one, drink plenty of water and start fresh,' Sam recommended.

Changing habits: He explained that those looking to keep any extra kilos off, or to even drop a few, should change one unhealthy habit such as additional snacking or not working out, and making a rule about it

In terms of fitness, Sam suggested to set short-term goals to help with focus along with a small but regular workout schedule.

'Nothing crazy, just string three days together, get thee endorphins pumping and remind yourself how good it feels,' he said.

Sam noted that having a plan for diet and exercise was a key part, and simplest way of keeping away from tempting treats this holiday season.

'Get the endorphins pumping': In terms of fitness, Sam suggested to set short-term goals to help with focus along with a small but regular workout schedule

'Planning your weekly meals, scheduling in your workouts and dedicating some time to meal prep are really handy ways to ensure you’re making healthier choices.'

This comes after he recently shared advice for a healthy diet and exercise routine this Christmas to Daily Mail Australia.

'Everything in moderation. My philosophy is Christmas is a time to really enjoy yourself.

Plan ahead: Sam noted that having a plan for diet and exercise was a key part, and simplest way of keeping away from tempting treats this holiday season

'Don't overthink it, don't be too restrictive, don't be too hard on yourself... but also, don't stop moving.

'Most people gain weight art this time of year because they eat more, drink more and exercise less. It's a double negative,' he said.

While he says he barely goes to the gym over the festive period, Sam says he aims to 'do a quick without at home or in the backyard, go for a run or go to the beach and play with the kids'.