Shares in NMC Health surged back from their slump after it announced an independent review which it hopes will reassure investors following last week's attack by short-seller Muddy Waters.

The Middle East-focused hospital operator saw its share price crash over 50 per cent at one point last week when the US hedge fund revealed it had taken a short position in the group and claimed the company had understated its debts.

But today NMC Health, which is listed in the FTSE 100, said it had called in independent accountants 'to review assertions made by certain parties'.

NMC has called in independent accountants 'to review assertions' made by Muddy Waters

'We are confident that this review, when complete, will be entirely confirmatory of the disclosures provided by the Company to date,' NMC Health said in a statement today.

'The company believes that the current share price is not a fair reflection of the value of the company which has a consistent track record of strong growth and cash generation.'

The news sent shares in NMC Health rallying nearly 32 per cent to £17.17 in afternoon trading, clawing back some of last week's losses.

Muddy Waters was quick to hit back, branding NMC Health's response to its report as 'misleading' and 'outright false in certain portions', adding it did not 'buy NMC's excuses for its significant reported cash balances relative to debt'.

It cited a report in the Financial Times about NMC holding talks to borrow some $200million and said that had increased its concerns that 'NMC's balance sheet understates its debt'.

It also said the company did not disclose certain leases and used a 'flawed method' to attempt to refute its accusations that the cost of building Royal Women's Hospital 'was likely inflated'.

It comes as last week, NMC branded accusations of mismanagement and balance sheet manipulation made by Muddy Waters 'baseless and misleading.'

It said it would 'respond in detail in due course', while reaffirming its full year outlook and announcing a fresh share buyback scheme.

Fiona Cincotta, an analyst at City Index, said: 'The war of words between due diligence firm and short seller Muddy Waters which accused the company of misstating debt and making unexplained investments has cost Abu Dhabi-based NMC a 52 per cent drop in share price since early last week, but the health firm is now hoping to put the accusations to bed with an independent review.

'NMC Health is trading up 30 per cent this morning but it still has some way to go to recover to the pre-Muddy Waters level.'

Muddy Waters, founded by Carson Block, is known for publicly declaring short positions taken on the basis of its in-house research.

In August, Muddy Waters published a research note claiming AIM-listed Burford Capital, a company which specialises in funding lawsuits, was 'arguably insolvent'.

Burford's share price slumped by 65 per cent in a 24-hour period following the claims.