Will Smith was spotted in a remote Australian town on Friday morning.

The 51-year-old posed for a photo with a fan at Lockhart River Airport, located nearly 800 kilometres north of Cairns in Far North Queensland.

Little is known as to why the actor is Down Under, however The Cairns Post suspects he's filming the second season of his Netflix documentary, One Strange Rock.

How unlikely! Will Smith, 51, was spotted in a remote town in Far North Queensland, Australia on Friday morning. Pictured with fan Simon Butcher, who shared the photo to Facebook

In the photo, Will was dressed down in a grey long-sleeve top, matching sweatpants and white Nike sneakers.

The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air star added a black cap and carried a black backpack.

He wrapped one arm around Lockhart River Airport crew member Simon Butcher, who later shared the photo on Facebook.

Just last week, Will was pictured landing in Vanuatu with an entourage in tow.

Spotted again: Just last week, Will was spotted in a photo shared to Twitter, shaking hands with airport crew members at Tanna Island in Vanuatu

Work trip? As suggested by The Cairns Post, Will could possibly be in town to film the second season of his Netflix documentary, One Strange Rock. Pictured this month in Los Angeles

The Cairns Post suspects the filmmaker is in Australia to film the second season of his Netflix documentary, One Strange Rock.

According to the streaming service, the series follows eight astronauts 'who share their unique perspectives on Earth, the fragile and beautiful planet we call home'.

Daily Mail Australia has reached out to Will's representatives for comment.

Meanwhile, this isn't the first time that Will's travels have made headlines.

Travels: Meanwhile this isn't the first time that Will's travels have made headlines

Back in January 2018, the father-of-three put a cafe in Sydney's Bondi on the map.

Taking to Instagram at the time, Will shared his enthusiasm over a $19 brunch dish at Eastern Suburbs hotspot Porch and Parlour.

'Okay...I ABSOLUTELY HATE when people post pictures of food! BUT...this damn Green Pea Pancake at Porch & Parlour in Bondi Beach, Australia...It Broke Me, Y'all.'

A photo saw Will dining on a generously-sized green pea pancake, served with avocado, snow peas, a poached egg, feta, zucchini and a mint salad.

Will arrived in Sydney at the time to promote Netflix film Bright, in which he stars alongside Australia's Joel Edgerton, 45.