Her festive classic All I Want for Christmas Is You has reached number one after 25 years.

And Mariah Carey capped off her 'amazing week' with a stellar performance on The Late Late Show on Thursday evening.

The singer, 49, slipped into a sparkling toy soldier bodysuit as she belted out the lyrics to the song she first released in 1994.

'Tis the season! Mariah Carey capped off her 'amazing week' with a stellar performance on The Late Late Show on Thursday evening

The hitmaker wore her blonde tresses in waves and accessorised with blingy diamond rings.

Mariah showed off her ample assets in the plunging bodysuit, which she wore over leggings, and added height with a pair of black towering heels.

The star seemed to be having the time of her life as she shimmied along to her Christmas number one.

Behind her, two male dancers were dressed as slightly less glittery toy soldiers while performing an expertly choreographed routine.

Work it! The singer, 49, slipped into a sparkling toy soldier bodysuit as she belted out the lyrics to the song she first released in 1994

Glitz and glamour: The hitmaker wore her blonde tresses in waves and accessorised with blingy diamond rings

Two female dancers dressed as elves fit with candycane-striped tights joined in as the tune got to its crescendo.

By the close of the performance choir members joined her on stage and fake snow fell down, covering her glamorous locks in a light sprinkling of white.

It comes a day after the hitmaker took to Instagram to gush about 'what an amazing week' it had been, saying 'Christmas has come early'.

Alongside a montage of photos from the past few days, Mariah wrote: 'What an amazing week this has been: a sold out show at @thegarden, a super festive tour-wrap party at @taodowntown.

All I Want For Christmas: Mariah showed off her ample assets in the plunging bodysuit, which she wore over leggings, and added height with a pair of black towering heels

Good fun: The star seemed to be having the time of her life as she shimmied along to her Christmas number one

'#AllIWantForChristmasIsYou hitting #1 on the @billboard Hot 100, flipping the switch at the @empirestatebldg (check out the nightly light show set to my song starting tomorrow!) and taking over the @latelateshow!!!

'The icing on top was meeting my fans at @shopnationnyc to celebrate the season!! It made me sooo happy! THANK YOU!! Christmas truly did come early this year, but it's really just the beginning! New music video debuts tomorrow night! ahhh!!!'

The pop superstar has a Billboard Hot 100 number one with All I Want For Christmas 25 years after she first released the track.

It's Mariah's first number one single since 2008's Touch My Body.

Energetic: Behind her, two male dancers were dressed as slightly less glittery toy soldiers while performing an expertly choreographed routine

In costume: Two female dancers dressed as elves fit with candy cane-striped tights joined in as the tune got to its crescendo. Behind them the backing singers were dressed in angelic white

Let it snow! By the close of the performance, choir members joined Mariah on stage as fake snow fell down, covering her glamorous locks in a light sprinkling of white

Celebrating: Christmas 2019 is shaping up to be a particularly special one for Mariah and on Wednesday, she took to Instagram to gush about 'what an amazing week this has been'

She's also just wrapped a sold out series of Christmas concerts off the back of her successful residency at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas and flipped the switch to light up the Empire State Building in New York City on Tuesday night.

On Thursday, Amazon Music posted a short video in which Mariah spoke about why the festive season is so important to her and how she created her famous holiday song.

'I have such an emotional connection to Christmas,' she explained. 'And it wasn't about the gifts.'

In the spotlight: Mariah has a Billboard Hot 100 number one with All I Want For Christmas 25 years after she first released the track

Holiday: Mariah will likely be heading to Aspen, Colorado, soon where she traditionally spends Christmas with twins Monroe and Moroccan, whom she shares with ex-husband Nick Cannon

Thankful: In her Instagram post on Wednesday, she listed all the things that had make the past week 'amazing'

'It was just about the hopefulness of the holiday season and just feeling, like, in the spirit, and the need for me to express myself and make a song that made me feel happy at the holidays,' she said.

'It's grown in popularity over the years, and that's the thing that's amazing to me about this song,' she added.

Mariah will likely be heading to Aspen, Colorado, soon where she traditionally spends Christmas each year with her twins Monroe and Moroccan, eight, whom she shares with ex-husband Nick Cannon.

She will resume her Vegas residency in February.