A mother's festive twist on a classic grazing platter has taken the internet by storm, after she showed home cooks how to make a Christmas tree shaped cheeseboard just in time for December 25.

Using a stack of triangular boxes from discount retailer Kmart, the Australian mum arranged the containers into the shape of a Christmas tree, filling each box to the brim with crackers, cheese, cured meats, fruit and vegetables.

The clever trick, which was posted anonymously in a cookery group on Facebook, inspired others to get creative with their layout of festive snacks, with many filling stacks of boxes with chips, nuts, biscuits and pretzels.

'They stack on top of each other and you can stand it up!' the mother explained in her post.

A mother's festive twist on a classic grazing platter has taken the internet by storm, after she showed home cooks how to make a Christmas tree shaped cheeseboard just in time for December 25

She recommended lining each box with baking paper before loading with treats, while others laid cellophane to protect the food instead.

Home cooks were excited to try their hand at the trend, with many calling it 'cheeseboard goals'.

'Clever people out there, can't wait to try this! Thanks for sharing,' a woman wrote.

One wordsmith dubbed the concept a 'snacking tree'.

Others filled stacks of boxes with chips, nuts, dried fruit, biscuits and pretzels

The trend is the latest in a line of quirky Christmas dishes taking Australia by storm this December, with amateur bakers shunning traditional desserts like pavlova and trifle to make edible wreaths from lamingtons, the nation's most iconic cake.

Beloved across the country, a lamington is a classic Australian cake made from squares of sponge coated in a layer of chocolate sauce and desiccated coconut.

The festive creation has been hailed as the ultimate Australian alternative to overly indulgent desserts, with many planning to use the wreath as a centre piece on Christmas Day - and you can make your own with six simple ingredients for just $27.

Australians are shunning traditional desserts like pavlova and trifle in favour of edible wreaths made from lamingtons this Christmas, which can be made with six simple ingredients for $27