A doting dad has come up with the ultimate hack for saving pennies when fussy kids beg for McDonald's.

Andy Penn, 37, from Biggleswade, Bedfordshire recreates Happy Meals at at home for daughter Chloe, six, using supermarket food and spare McDonald's packaging.

He said that he asks the staff for extra packaging to take home when he orders in a branch, and insisted that they 'don't seem to mind'.

The fork lift operator spends £1.70 on his homemade Happy Meals which includes a toy, saving around £1.09 in the process - but says it often saves him leaving the house of cold evenings too.

Andy Penn, 37, from Biggleswade, Bedfordshire recreates Happy Meals at at home for daughter Chloe, six, using supermarket food and spare McDonald's packaging

Sharing his hack to Facebook, Andy posted pictures showing his process, which includes frying the chicken nuggets and chips before repackaging in McDonald's wrappers

Sharing his hack to Facebook, Andy posted pictures showing his process, which includes frying the chicken nuggets and chips before repackaging in McDonald's wrappers.

He then completes the Happy Meal with a £1 toy from Poundland.

He posted the photos with the caption: 'Parenting tip from me. Next time you're at McDonald's, ask the staff nicely for some spare packaging (they don't seem to mind when you explain).

'Then, when your child wants 'a happy meal' and you can't be bothered to leave the house or wanna save the pennies, you can just make them up one at home. Just don't forget the toy.'

The fork lift operator spends £1.70 on his homemade Happy Meals which includes a toy, saving around £1.09 in the process - but says it often saves him leaving the house of cold evenings. too. His daughter Chloe, six, loved it

Andy said: 'I'm always doing my utmost for her and going out of my way. I wear makeup for her and her friends we do nails etc.

'It was my weekend and she asked for McDonald's for tea. I said I need to go shopping and asked her how she'd feel about making one at home, if I grabbed a toy while we were out.

'She was really excited about the idea saying we can stay at home and watch a film with homemade McDonald's.'

Andy said: 'I'm always doing my utmost for her and going out of my way. I wear makeup for her and her friends we do nails etc. It was my weekend and she asked for McDonald's for tea. I said I need to go shopping and asked her how she'd feel about making one at home, if I grabbed a toy while we were out'. Chloe is pictured enjoying her 'McDonalds'

He added: 'I think if a family went and got like three or four of the happy meal boxes, a low income family or a struggling single mum if she did it you're looking at £3 to feed four kids.

'The saving money is just a bonus to be honest, my daughter just found it really fun. Obviously it was her ideal setting we could cook it at home in front of the telly while watching a film.

'It's not something I do weekly, monthly. This was the first time I've done it. It's something I will do in the future maybe in two or three months.

Andy reuses McDonald's packaging but makes the chicken nuggets himself at home

'If people are really that bothered they could always use an Actifry or whatever. It's no big issue the concept is there to make nuggets and chips at home.

'I'm not a health expert I just did something my daughter wanted to do and I wouldn't do it regularly.'

Many parents were quick to praise Andy's hack, which quickly racked up 4,000 likes and 6,000 shares.

Larissa Conboy wrote: 'What a brilliant idea especially how McDonald's is so far from me.'

Donna Berry added: 'Hahah win win love this idea all round.'

And Jasmin Johnson said: 'In love oh my god. Going to save my life.'