Kim Kardashian West has been enjoying some quality family time for the holidays in New York City.

While in town, the reality star accompanied husband Kanye West to the New York opening of his opera Mary.

She dazzled in gold velvet Sunday as they stepped out of Lincoln Center following the performance.

Family outing: Kim Kardashian West dazzled in gold velvet Sunday as she and her family stepped out of Lincoln Center following the New York opening of husband Kanye West's opera Mary

The 39-year-old donned a long-sleeve ankle-length gown with a turtleneck and a thigh-high leg slit trimmed in ruffles.

She paired the look with some matching gladiator stilettos, featuring knee-high laces.

Kanye, 42, cut a sharp look in black, as he sported a pair of wayfarer sunglasses for the night out.

He was surrounded by supporters showing him support after the successful opening.

Stay gold: The 39-year-old donned a long-sleeve ankle-length gown with a turtleneck and a thigh-high leg slit trimmed in ruffles

Leggy display: She paired the look with some matching gladiator stilettos, featuring knee-high laces

Hell on heels: Kim took to her Instagram story before the show to tease her look, showing off the heels

Sharp look: Kanye, 42, cut a sharp look in black, as he sported a pair of wayfarer sunglasses for the night out

Love and support: He was surrounded by supporters showing him support after the successful opening

Spitting image: Daughter North, six, and son Saint, four were also in attendance to support their father

Chic in white: The kids matched in all-white looks as they were spotted exiting the theater with their parents

Baby Birkin: North solidified her status as a rising fashion icon in a fuzzy white robe, tied at the waist. It was worn over a matching top and pants with a pair of pearl chokers, as she carried a mini white Birkin

Night at the opera: Tracy Morgan was also in attendance with wife Megan Wollover and daughter Maven

Daughter North, six, and son Saint, four were also in attendance to support their father.

The kids matched in all-white looks as they were spotted exiting the theater with their parents.

North solidified her status as a rising fashion icon in a fuzzy white robe, tied at the waist.

It was worn over a matching top and pants with a pair of pearl chokers, as she carried a mini white Birkin.

Front row view: Kim took to her Instagram story during the show with some footage of the performance

Sunday Service vibes: The show featured the Sunday Service collective, clad in their signature brown t-shirts and sweats

Limited engagement: Kanye premiered the opera (for which the working title was originally Birth of Jesus) earlier this month at Art Basel in Miami

Kim took to her Instagram story during the show with some footage of the performance.

The show featured the Sunday Service collective, clad in their signature brown t-shirts and sweats.

Kanye premiered the opera (for which the working title was originally Birth of Jesus) earlier this month at Art Basel in Miami.

Kim was spotted earlier cutting a chic winter look in a caramel snakeskin topcoat as she arrived at her hotel with North and Saint.

Winter chic: Kim was spotted earlier cutting a chic winter look in a caramel snakeskin topcoat as she arrived at her hotel with North and Saint

Bold colors: The Skims mogul wore the coat over a mint green turtleneck and a pair of sherbet leather pants

Accessorizing: She completed the look with a pair of brown sunglasses and some neon orange trainers

The Skims mogul wore the coat over a mint green turtleneck and a pair of sherbet leather pants.

She completed the look with a pair of brown sunglasses and some neon orange trainers.

Kim took to her story earlier from the Frozen 2 Enchanted Forest experience at Saks Fifth Avenue.

She seemed to be just as into the immersive attraction as her kids, who could be heard shouting in amazement.

Let it go: Kim took to her Instagram story earlier from the Frozen 2 Enchanted Forest experience at Saks Fifth Avenue

Inner child: She seemed to be just as into the immersive attraction as her kids, who could be heard shouting in amazement

Winter wonderland: The venue was dressed in thin trees, soaked in red lighting, before Olaf led them to another area lit blue for a more winter aesthetic

The venue was dressed in thin trees, soaked in red lighting, before Olaf led them to another area lit blue for a more winter aesthetic.

Kim was spotted the night before as she, husband Kanye, 42, daughter North and son Saint stepped out in Midtown.

The mother-of-four went bold in a silver metallic puffy jacket, paired with black leather pants.

The kids served looks as well, North wearing a black leather jacket with matching pants, and saint sporting a neon yellow tracksuit.