She's makes her last appearance in The Rise Of Skywalker as Rey.

And Daisy Ridley admitted her final day on the set of the final film in the Skywalker saga was 'horribly emotional', as she joked that director J.J. Abrams thought her final speech was 'embarrassing'.

Making an appearance on The Graham Norton Show in scenes set to air on Friday night, the actress, 27, admitted: 'It really felt like the end and you felt it on the set. The last day was horribly emotional.

Moved: Daisy Ridley admitted her final day on set of Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker was 'horribly emotional' as she joked director J. J. Abrams called her final speech 'embarrassing'

'I can’t remember a word of what I said in my speech because I was crying so much. It was terrible. Even J. J. said, "That was embarrassing!"

Meanwhile the Murder On The Orient Express star remained cryptic while talking about the new film, as she simply said: 'It’s fair to say it’s my character’s story and it ties everything together.'

'All I can tell you is that it is basically all we love about Star Wars – good versus evil, love and finding the people you choose to be your family,' she added. 'There are lots of laughs and lots of tears. It’s insane that they’ve managed to finish off all nine films.'

Emotional: Of her goodbye speech, Daisy said: 'I can’t remember a word of what I said in my speech because I was crying so much. It was terrible. Even J. J. said, "That was embarrassing!"

Earlier this month, Daisy's co-star John Boyega joked about her speech, as he said during an appearance on The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon that it was 'absolute nonsense.'

Revealing how he made sure they finished together, he said: 'I actually wrapped two shots before Daisy, me and Naomi Ackie had a pick up shot to do and then daisy had her scene, and I waited so me and daisy wrapped together.'

He then jokingly added: 'I said a gorgeous speech, it was absolutely amazing everybody was in tears, however daisy's speech was absolute nonsense

'She cried throughout the whole thing, we didn't understand what she was saying but it was emotional nonetheless.'

Amusing: Earlier this month, Daisy's co-star John Boyega joked that her speech was 'absolute nonsense' as they 'didn't understand what she was saying'

Teasing the film's plot, Daisy revealed: 'All I can tell you is that it is basically all we love about Star Wars – good versus evil, love and finding the people you choose to be your family'

Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker's plot has been kept under wraps, but it can be said that it sees the return of Emperor Palpatine, with Rey and Supreme Leader Kylo Ren attempt to find him.

The film is the last in the nine-episode run of movies that first began in 1977 with Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope.

Daisy appeared on the show alongside Henry Cavill, stars of Gavin and Stacey Ruth Jones and Rob Brydon, and Robbie Williams.

The Graham Norton Show airs on BBC One on Friday December 20, at 10.35pm.