The Queen arrived in Norfolk for the start of her winter break as it was announced Prince Philip has been taken into hospital in London.

The monarch, 93, looked elegant in a blush pink coat and pastel-coloured silk headscarf as she stepped off the train at King's Lynn station, Norfolk, this afternoon.

Hours before the Queen boarded the 10.45am Great Northern service from London King's Cross, the Duke of Edinburgh, 98, travelled from Norfolk to the King Edward VII Hospital in London's Marylebone hospital on advice of royal doctors.

The Duke of Edinburgh, who now spends much of his time in Norfolk since retiring, is expected to be in hospital for a few days. Philip was not taken by ambulance and his admission was understood to have been planned.

The Queen, 93, looked elegant in a blush pink coat and pastel-coloured silk headscarf as she stepped off the train at King's Lynn station, Norfolk, this afternoon, pictured

The Queen arrived into King's Lynn, Norfolk, this afternoon. She caught the 10.45am Great Northern service from London King's Cross this morning, travelling in First Class

The Queen, 93, left London King's Cross this morning and is travelling by train to King's Lynn, Norfolk, which is a short drive from the royal country estate. Pictured, on the train in London

Police searched King's Lynn station ahead of the Queen's arrival, including ticket machines

A Buckingham Palace spokesman said: 'The Duke of Edinburgh travelled from Norfolk this morning to the King Edward VII Hospital in London for observation and treatment in relation to a pre-existing condition. The admission is a precautionary measure, on the advice of His Royal Highness' Doctor.'

The Queen will remain at Sandringham until after the anniversary of her father’s death on 6 February.

She will be joined by family, including the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and their children, for Christmas next week.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex will not attend as they are spending son Archie's first Christmas with Meghan's mother Doria.

The Queen was photographed on the train after boarding at busy King's Cross station.

She was spotted doing her paperwork, with her pink coat draped over her seat. A single first class ticket from King's Cross to King's Lynn costs approximately £37.60.

The Queen, pictured arriving in King's Lynn will make the short journey to Sandringham, where she will be reunited with the Duke of Edinburgh. Prince Philip lives in a cottage on the estate

The Queen brought a splash of colour to a grey day in her pink coat and matching dress. The monarch finished the outfit with her trusty black handbag, black shoes, and a headscarf

The Queen, pictured arriving in King's Lynn, was spotted doing paperwork on the train journey

The monarch brought a splash of colour to a grey day in her pretty rose-coloured ensemble as she arrived in King's Lynn. The Queen will be joined by her family for Christmas next week

She briefly mingled with passengers before she was escorted through a side exit known as the Royal Gate to a waiting Range Rover. Sandringham is a 30-minute drive from King's Lynn.

Passenger Monika Saganowska, 25, who boarded the train at Watlington, the stop before King's Lynn, said she was unaware the Queen was on board until she arrived at King's Lynn and saw police on the platform.

She said it was 'quite exciting' to discover that the Queen had been on the service, and she was surprised to learn that the monarch had taken public transport.

The Queen briefly mingled with passengers before she was escorted through a side exit known as the Royal Gate to a waiting Range Rover. Pictured, the Queen stepping off the train

'I think it's great actually,' said Ms Saganowska. 'I always thought she would have some kind of a private train or at least a carriage or something, but I didn't know that she was taking the public train which I think is great.'

This morning police searched King's Lynn station ahead of the Queen's arrival. Officers patrolled the platforms, searched bins and inspected ticket machines as part of the security sweep.

The Queen usually travels to her Norfolk home on a Thursday, a day after her annual pre-Christmas lunch, but was delayed this year because she had to deliver the Queen's Speech in Parliament yesterday.

On Wednesday the Queen welcomed her extended family to Buckingham Palace for her annual Christmas lunch.

Sandringham is not large enough to accommodate the entire clan, including Her Majesty's cousins and their children and grandchildren, so the Queen has made a tradition of celebrating with them a week in advance.

Officers searched bins and inspected pipes as part of the security sweep this morning, above

A police search team opened up a ticket machine at King's Lynn railway station this morning

Officers patrolled the platform, pictured, where the Queen's train will arrive later today

Only immediate family, including Prince Charles, the Duchess of Cornwall, Prince Edward and the Countess of Wessex, will join the Queen for Christmas in Norfolk.

Prince Andrew is also expected to attend. He recently stepped down from royal duties in the wake of his explosive BBC interview but this is a private engagement.

This year marks the first time Prince George, six, and Princess Charlotte, four, will join their parents at church on Christmas Day.

Prince Philip moved into Wood House, a cottage on the Sandringham estate, after stepping down from royal duties in 2017.

He loves it there and has made it his retirement base, reading, painting watercolours, writing letters and having friends to stay.