Winter is here and making its presence felt.

Plunging temperatures, icy roads and poor weather mean driving can be dangerous, and there's a higher risk of vehicle break downs.

And we all know how stressful and frustrating that can be.

But did you know that just a few basic checks will ensure your car is primed and ready to go, making sure you can cope with winter's worst?

From checking your car's battery to fitting its floor mats properly, these nine simple steps won't take long, but could make all the difference.

And for any replacement parts or extra advice, Halfords is on hand this season to keep Britain's motorists on the road. Whatever the weather throws at us!

And with the Halfords Free Winter Car Check Service, you can set off on any journey with confidence.

So read on and you'll be ready for whatever the winter brings.

1. Check your battery...

Let a Halfords expert check your car battery this winter

This should be a priority, so make it the first thing you do now it's properly cold.

Car batteries can work effectively for around five years, so if you're finding it hard to get your car started in the mornings then it might be time for a new one.

Not sure where to start? Head to Halfords where an expert will check it for you and also advise on a replacement if necessary. And you can also check what kind of battery you need for your car by using the helpful tool on the Halfords website.

And not only will they fit a new one from £15, Halfords will recycle your old battery for free, making the whole process as easy and painless as possible.

2. Get a clear view

With driving rain, sleet and snow to contend with, it's crucial your windscreen wipers are working perfectly and that you have the best visibility possible.

So if your wipers are split or worn and are actually causing streaks across the windscreen rather than making it brilliantly clear, then don't delay in replacing them.

And use the helpful Halfords Wiper Blades Selector to ensure you're buying the right ones for your vehicle. Don't know how to fit them? Let the team at your local Halfords do it for only £3 for a single blade replacement and £4 to replace a pair.

And while we're talking about windscreens, give yours a thorough clean both inside and out and check for any chips in the glass, as these can get worse in cold weather.

3. Feel the pressure

Michelin Programmable Superfast 4X4/SUV Digital Tyre Inflator (£80) at Halfords

Keeping the pressure of your tyres at an optimum level is important all year round as it helps to maximise the car's fuel efficiency and can also reduce the risk of getting a flat.

And during the winter this is even more important, so make sure you take the time to check each tyre carefully.

Investing in the Michelin Programmable Superfast 4X4/SUV Digital Tyre Inflator (above) available exclusively at Halfords, will make this easy, and removes the need to trek to the petrol station. Not only is it easy to use, but it has changeable pressure modes, a three piece adaptor set for smaller inflatables and bikes and its powerful motor can inflate a 15" tyre in just 90 seconds. Genius!

4. Tread carefully

Grip is more important at this time of year than any other, and to ensure a strong grip of the road you need to look at the tyre treads.

The legal minimum depth is 1.6mm, but during the winter aim for around 3mm. And if you live in (or will be visiting) a place with particularly harsh conditions then consider switching to winter tyres which will cope better with any ice, snow and slush as well as providing the improved stopping power you'll need.

If you're not sure whether your tyre treads are in the best condition for winter, simply pop into a Halfords Autocentre where the experts can advise you. They can even provide tyre replacement services if needed.

5. Let there be light

With short days and longer nights, we need our lights to be in full working order.

So firstly, check each headlight, taillight, indicator and rear reflector to make sure they're clean, the lenses aren't cracked and that the bulbs haven't blown.

And don't forget to test the hazard lights and the full beam fog lights too, as there's more chance you'll need them during the gloomy days of winter.

If you find some bulbs need replacing then use the Halfords Bulb Selector to find the right ones for your make and model.

6. Grease is the word

It might be a potentially messy job, but checking the oil in our cars is essential.

Engine oil helps keep the engine clean of deposits, lubricates and protects its various components while also keeping the engine cool. An engine oil will become less effective over time, so changing it according to the vehicle handbook recommendation is necessary to keep the engine operating efficiently.

You can get your oil checked at 450 Halfords stores nationwide, and the in-store experts will even top it up for only £5. Plus, you don't even need to book an appointment. If you prefer to do it yourself then use the Engine Oil Selector to be sure you're buying the right kind for your vehicle.

The oil range at Halfords covers 99 per cent of the cars currently on the road, so finding what you need couldn't be easier.

7. Fight the big freeze

Ensure your engine coolant is working to the best of its ability by topping it up with antifreeze.

Vehicles require a correctly diluted mix of antifreeze and water to ensure the right level of anti-corrosion performance and freeze protection. Only topping up with water will lower the freeze protection and risk the fluid freezing during cold months. This prevents the fluid from cooling the engine and significantly increases the probability of catastrophic engine damage due to overheating; a much bigger problem to solve!

Halfords OAT Ready Mixed Antifreeze 2 Litres (£12.50)

So to avoid this from happening, pick up a bottle Halfords Ready Mixed Antifreeze (OAT Antifreeze pictured above) which has the blend just right, taking the stress out of it for you.

And top up your windscreen washer fluid with screenwash that has an antifreezing agent in it, to keep your windscreen clear and prevent your screenwash from freezing.



8. The right fit

Checking your floor mats are fitted properly is one of those things that's easy to overlook.

But if the mat at the driver's feet isn't installed correctly, it could interfere with operating the brake, accelerator and clutch, which can then lead to accidents. So follow the instructions in the car's manual on how to fit them and if they're old and losing grip, then think about replacing them.

Halfords recommends rubber mats to protect car interiors from the winter elements and has a huge selection that'll make the process easy. And from just £15 for a full set, it's an affordable upgrade too.

9. For emergency use only

Halfords Trigger De-Icer 500ml (£2.50)

If you're going to be travelling a long way this winter, perhaps for your Christmas celebrations, or afterwards, then it's a good idea to stock your car with a winter breakdown kit and other essentials.

Include a torch, blanket, extra screen wash, an ice scraper, a fully charged mobile phone, water, a small shovel (if there's lots of snow) and a first aid kit.

And don't forget to pack some Halfords Trigger De-Icer (above). It has a fast acting formula which will clear frost quickly from the car's windows as well as helping to prevent them from re-freezing.

Get ready for winter at Halfords At Halfords you can book a FREE winter car check, so you can be sure your vehicle is ready for the months ahead. Here's what's included: Headlight & brake light check Wiper blade condition check Battery health check Windscreen chip check MOT due date reminder (UK only) Air Con check (ROI only) Simply book an appointment online here And for only £15, you can upgrade in store to a full 10 point check so you'll have increased peace of mind. Here's what you'll get in the upgrade: Tyre tread depth check Tyre inflation Oil level check Screen wash top up AdBlue and coolant level check

Prices correct at time of publication