Caroline Flack has allegedly turned down ITV's offer of aftercare after quitting the show following her assault charge, despite her calling this a 'really rough time.'

The latest comes after her close friend Laura Whitmore, 34, was confirmed as her replacement as host on the show after Caroline encouraged her to take on the role.

40-year-old Caroline is being comforted by family and friends a week on from her arrest following a row at the home she shares with boyfriend Lewis Burton, 27.

Caroline Flack EXCLUSIVE: Love Island star has allegedly turned down ITV's offer of aftercare during this 'really rough time' as pal Laura Whitmore was confirmed as her replacement on Friday (stock image)

Supportive: Laura revealed that her good friend Caroline pushed for her to take the role as she said: 'I wish it was in better circumstances' (stock image)

And while reports by other publications have claimed that ITV have offered to pay for Caroline's 'therapy', a source told MailOnline that it is simply not the case.

They have told her they support her and remain in contact with her, but Caroline has insisted 'she's fine' and doesn't need any aftercare at this point.

A source told MailOnline: 'She has had one meeting with ITV execs and they said they are there for her if she needs them, but she assured them she is fine.'

On Friday, ITV confirmed MailOnline's exclusive from earlier in the week that Laura would be the new host for one season.

Shock: Caroline was charged with assault last Friday after being arrested following an altercation with boyfriend Lewis Burton, 27, the previous day (pictured October 2019)

Laura said in a statement: 'I want to thank ITV for trusting me at the helm of this huge show. I wish it was in better circumstances; Caroline is a brilliant host and also a friend.

'We’ve spoken a lot in the last few days since she stepped down. She has been very kind to me and strongly pushed me for this role. I’ve watched her host every series and know I have big boots to fill. I will try and do it justice.

'Above all, I am a massive fan of this show. I’ve never been to a Love Island villa, and I can’t wait to get in there to meet all the new Islanders looking for love.

'Keeping my head above water': Soon after the announcement, Caroline shared this supportive post to Laura as she vowed to 'sort this all out'

'The Love Island team are the best in the business… including the voice and heart of the show, Iain. He thought he was getting a holiday away from me… not a chance!'

Caroline then posted on Instagram Stories: 'I'm glad it's Laura. She loves the show as much as I do.. again... thank you for your continuous messages of support.

'It's a really rough time... but I'm doing all I can to keep my head above water and sort this all out.'

While she won't host the winter debut series, ITV are 'firmly leaving the door open for Caroline' and she may return.

An ITV spokesperson said: 'ITV has a long standing relationship with Caroline and we understand and accept her decision. We will remain in contact with her over the coming months about future series of Love Island.'

Caroline has only been pictured out once in the week since she was arrested, seen just outside the Soho hotel in London with her PR Nathan Charles.

The channel has cut her from the Love Island promo ads which she filmed ahead of the show's confirmed start date on January 12.

Meanwhile, Caroline's romance with tennis player and model Lewis, appears to have been patched up.

Over: Caroline first shared this post on Instagram on Tuesday as she broke her silence on the matter

He took to Instagram Stories to call her 'loyal and kind' and shared various pictures of her on social media along with a love heart.

It's unclear if Caroline has been able to have contact with Lewis or if her bail conditions dictate otherwise.

Standing down from the series on Tuesday, Caroline broke her silence on Instagram and wrote: 'There have been a significant number of media reports and allegations in regard to my personal life.

'While matters were not as have been reported I am committed to co-operating with the appropriate authorities and I can't comment further on these matters until the legal process is over.

'I've been offered help and understanding': She also thanked fans for their kindness and asserted her love for her boyfriend Lewis at the same time, before deleting this post

'However Love Island has been my world for the last five years, it's the best show on telly. In order not to detract attention from the upcoming series I feel the best thing I can do is stand down from Series 6.

'I want to wish the incredible team working on the show a fantastic series in Cape Town.'

Caroline continued: 'And on a really personal level. I have never experienced such kindness and love in my whole life.

'Not just from friends and family who are always the greatest but also from total strangers who send messages to me offering help and understanding... Please know that I see them and my boyfriend Lewis. I love you x.'

Mere hours after Caroline announced that she would be stepping down, the star bizarrely liked a tweet from a fan that hit out at the premise of Love Island.

Despite gushing over her love for the show in her confirmation, she liked the tweet reading: 'The show should honestly be called orgy island anyway, that show is not about love... it’s about fake boobies and sunscreen.'

The Love Island host was due to fly out to South Africa in just a few weeks' time to start filming the debut winter series of the ITV2 dating show.

No doubt this has proven to be a logistical nightmare for the channel as Caroline has already shot promotional scenes for the show.

A source told MailOnline that the TV personality also had been lining up a 'six-figure advertising deal with Polaroid' which is now 'on hold' following her arrest.

Shock: Caroline and Lewis have maintained that things are OK between them and she asserted on Tuesday that she loves him (pictured in October)

On the last series of Love Island, Polaroid collaborated with the show and a range of sunglasses was designed for the contestants which were then available to buy on the Love Island website.

Caroline's world was turned upside down when six police cars were seen outside the TV presenter's London home in the early hours of Thursday morning.

A man, believed to be Flack's boyfriend, Lewis, was treated for injuries, but his condition was not thought to be serious.

A Met Police spokesman told MailOnline: 'Caroline Flack, 40, of Islington was charged on Friday, 13 December with assault by beating. She will appear on bail at Highbury Corner Magistrates’ Court on Monday, 23 December.

'This follows an incident at approximately 05:25hrs on Thursday, 12 December after reports of a man being assaulted. He was not seriously injured.'

The man was treated by paramedics and a London Ambulance Service spokesman said: 'We were called yesterday (Thursday 12 December) at 5.28am to reports of a person unwell in Islington.

'Abuse has no gender': On Sunday, Andrew uploaded pictures of a confidentiality agreement, thought to be from when he and Caroline were engaged

'We sent an ambulance to the scene and took a person to hospital.'

Calls were being made for her to be sacked permanently ahead of the announcement, particularly in light of the #MeToo era.

Caroline's announcement follows reports ITV were working on contingency plans in case she wouldn't be returning to the show.

She has been released on bail and is due to appear at Highbury Corner magistrates' court on December 23.

Caroline's ex-boyfriend, Andrew Brady offered his support to her boyfriend Lewis and messaged the model's phone, saying: 'I'm sure this is just the tip of the iceberg.'

But Lewis responded to Andrew's text telling him to 'stay out of his business'.

A source close to Andrew told MailOnline: 'Andrew wanted to be there for Lewis.

'He text him saying if he wanted to chat then he'd be open to talking as he "knows what it's like"... but he was also keen to quiz Lewis on whether he'd signed a non-disclosure agreement.

'Lewis replied telling him to stay out of their business and made clear he'd not been asked to sign any documents.'

On Sunday, Andrew uploaded pictures of a confidentiality agreement, thought to be from when he and Caroline were engaged, with the caption: 'Abuse has no gender.'

MailOnline can reveal that Andrew was not paid to sign the document and seemed happy enough to do so at the time.

A spokesman for Flack told PA news agency in a statement: 'We confirm that police attended Caroline's home following a private domestic incident.

'She is co-operating with the appropriate people to resolve matters. We will not be making any further comment for legal reasons.'

Caroline and her tennis player and model boyfriend Lewis have been in a relationship since July.

Their relationship seemed to be on the rocks when they were spotted in the midst of a furious argument during their Spanish holiday in October.

Caroline was pictured engaging in a tense discussion with Lewis as they sat on board a luxury vessel while out at sea with a group of their friends in Ibiza.

Common assault according to the UK Sentencing Council Common assault (section 39, Criminal Justice Act 1988) A person is guilty of common assault if they either inflict violence on another person – however slight this might be – or make that person think they are about to be attacked. They do not have to be physically violent – for example, threatening words or a raised fist could lead the victim to believe they are going to be attacked – and that is enough for the crime to have been committed. Other acts like spitting at someone may also classed as common assault. The offence covers both intentional and reckless acts. For example, the offender may not have intended to cause the victim to think an attack was imminent but if they behaved in way that was likely to make the victim think they were about to be attacked, and they didn't care what effect that behaviour would have, the offender is guilty of the offence. If violence is used in a common assault, it is called a 'battery' and the perpetrator would be charged with 'assault by beating'. This does not however, mean that the victim was actually 'beaten up' or even hit or kicked – it could be that they were pushed, grabbed or spat at. The victim may not therefore have suffered any physical injury, and if any injury was caused, it would need to be quite minor to fall under common assault. The maximum sentence allowed by law for common assault is six months imprisonment, and cases can only be heard in the magistrates' court. If the assault is racially or religiously aggravated, the maximum sentence is two years imprisonment and cases can be heard in the Crown Court as well.

In August, a source told The Sun the couple that Caroline and Lewis had 'really hit it off' after being 'introduced through mutual friends.'

Lewis is currently signed to Select Model Management following his stint as a professional tennis player.

The hunk began playing the sport at the tender age of seven, and reached a career high when he played the final of the boys' doubles with George Morgan at Wimbledon in 2010.

Lewis played his last game in professional tennis with Marcus Willis at the Great Britain F2 in Sunderland back in January 2015.

Earlier this year, Caroline embarked on a short-lived romance with rugby player Danny Cipriani, 31, before their relationship fizzled out in May. She was previously engaged to Apprentice star Andrew Brady for just under a year back in 2018.

She previously romanced stars such as former X Factor co-star Olly Murs, 35, musician Harry Styles, 25, and music manager Jack Street, 31.

Last month, Caroline was forced to shut down rumours that she and Lewis were engaged to one another, with her rep saying it's '100% not true.'

While celebrating her 40th birthday that month, she addressed the milestone birthday in an Instagram Story, admitting she was 'utterly grateful' for everything.

She wrote: 'Jesus… Last day of my 30s …. and what a ride it's been so far,' she wrote. 'Feeling so utterly grateful for EVERYTHING in my life right now.'

The news comes just weeks after Caroline's ex Andrew branded their relationship toxic.

He went on Instagram to reveal he had covered a tattoo of her initials which he had on his wrist to mark a year since the pair's relationship ended.

The former Apprentice star took to Instagram as he visited Bondi Ink to have the 'CF' covered with the shape of Australia.

Andrew was engaged to Caroline last year but since they split - which he said 'probably saved his life' - he has relocated to Sydney.

In a series of stories Andrew smiled as he prepared to go under the needle and wrote a message to explain why he decided to get some new ink.

He wrote: 'It's exactly a year tomorrow since I left a very toxic relationship and got away.

'Leaving probably saved my life. I mark it one year on by doing something I should have done a while ago'

After having his new tattoo Andrew shared another video where he thanks Bondi Ink for 'covering up this absolute monstrosity.'

He continued: 'So moral of the story is don't get your partner's initials tattooed on you because when it all goes t**s up you're gonna have to get it covered up.'