Seven Worlds, One Planet

by Jonny Keeling and Scott Alexander (BBC £25)

This book accompanies the latest series from the BBC Natural History Unit, a rare example of an institutional department that has itself become a national treasure. Keeling and Alexander, who both worked on the series in senior capacities, have been everywhere and filmed everything, including this flock of great white pelicans on the Danube. Watching a series like this and then reading a book about it can make you complacent about the consistently high quality of work, but let's not be. These series are to be cherished while they still exist, while the habitats they show us still exist, while the BBC itself still exists. I have to say I'm not particularly optimistic about any of those three

Night Sky: Stargazing With The Naked Eye

by Robert Harvey (Amber £19.99)

Here's an unusual one. Although called Night Sky, it's not just about stars and planets and distant galaxies and the infinitude of space. It's also about the earthly landscapes from which such visions can be seen. Robert Harvey is a landscape astrophotographer — not a term I'd heard before — and this is a collection of his wonderful photographs, which tend to follow a pattern: the stars apparently illuminating the (artfully lit) ground beneath (as with Stonehenge above). So, while Cassiopeia and Orion's Belt are here, Harvey is more interested in the aesthetics than the science. And you'll do well to find many more arresting images than these

Trees of Life

by Max Adams (Head of Zeus £25)

Adams, who has written more books about trees than is decent, has selected 80 trees that represent the richness of humanity's connection with the forests. Illustrated in art or photographs, they have been chosen for their usefulness, timber, medicinal properties or tasty nuts and berries, which is the reason goats are grazing in this argan tree in Morocco. He ends with a section on trees that are so valuable 'they must be protected at all costs from loss by neglect or ignorance'. This book's quietness speaks as loud as a scream

The Art of Looking Up

by Catherine McCormack (White Lion £30)

Another simple idea, executed with great style and erudition. McCormack, who teaches at Sotheby's Institute of Art, looks at 40 spectacular ceilings from around the globe and writes about them in an accessible, entertaining, art-historical style. Or you can just look at the photographs, which are glorious: Peter Paul Rubens's extraordinary paintings on the ceilings of the Banqueting House in London, one of the last things Charles I would have seen on the way to his execution; Cy Twombly's 2010 painting in the Louvre, 'more blue than is actually comfortable'; and this one, the hypnotic domed ceiling of Imam Mosque in Iran. I bet McCormack's neck aches

The Artist's Garden

by Jackie Bennett (White Lion £30)

Subtitled 'The Secret Spaces That Inspired Great Art', Bennett's intriguing book crosses the rarely breached divide between love of gardening and love of visual art. The extraordinary discovery here is that so many of the gardens that great artists were inspired by, or even dug weeds out of, are still there. Monet's lilies: still there! The pictures are roughly split between artworks of fond memory, such as Summer Evening On The Skagen Southern Beach (above), by Peder Severin Kroyer, up-to-date photographs of flowers and, occasionally, wonderful garden plans that all keen gardeners will pore over with magnifying glasses. They're all here: Cezanne, Kahlo, Renoir, Kandinsky, Dali. If any were alive today, I wonder if they'd install a barbecue?

Bowie By O'Neill: The Definitive Collection with Unseen Images

(Octopus £40)

Has there ever been a rock star who was as good at being photographed as David Bowie? Maybe it's the wonky eye, or the slightly alien looks, but Terry O'Neill, who died last month, said Bowie was 'the most talented, enigmatic and audacious star I ever photographed'. Now, this vast tome brings together O'Neill's published and previously unseen photos of Bowie, here with actress Elizabeth Taylor in 1975. If there's a slight disappointment about the book, it's that there are very few pictures of the singer as an older man, ageing as gracefully as anyone ever has done. But O'Neill knew him in his pomp, and this is a truly sparkling collection

The International Best Dressed List: The Official Story

by Amy Fine Collins (Rizzoli £55)

Did you know that the International Best Dressed Hall of Fame List has been going since 1940? Nor did I. This history of the event steers clear of unnecessary analysis and concentrates, as is only appropriate, on photographs of famous people dressed well. Looking through the book, though, you begin to realise clothes are barely the half of it. An innate, instinctive elegance will take you a long way. Look at this photo of Audrey Hepburn (left). If she had been wearing a bin-liner, she would still have looked impossibly stylish. I am now trying — and failing — to imagine Audrey Hepburn wearing a bin-liner

The Year Of The Dogs

by Vincent J. Musi (Chronicle £21.99)

Vince Musi used to be a photographer for the National Geographic and travelled the world in search of the perfect snap of the water-buffalo or the three-toed sloth. Then, his son turned 16 and he thought, hang on, I've missed this boy's entire childhood. So he stayed at home for a year and photographed dogs. This delightful book is little more than 190 photographs of ordinary neighbourhood dogs. But what character! What grace! What ferocious canine intelligence! This one is Otis, 'a two-year-old Doberman Pinscher who, when faced with a challenging situation, would charm the pants off you'. Or bite your leg off. One of the two

English Gardens

by Kathryn Bradley-Hole (Rizzoli £62.50)

Sixty-two pounds and fifty pence! Actually, this book, subtitled 'From The Archives Of Country House Magazine', is so vast, comprehensive and stunningly produced that that's very nearly a bargain. Pictured here are some of England's poshest and best tended gardens, photographed at the height of their seasonal beauty. It might give you a few ideas of your own, should your garden be large enough to incorporate a maze. For the rest of us, this is pure garden porn. For once the words need hardly bother us: the pictures are everything

How to live forever (almost!)

Helen Brown

Lifespan: Why We Age — And Why We Don't Have To by David A Sinclair PhD (Thorsons £20, 416 pp)

LIFESPAN: Why We Age — And Why We Don't Have To

by David A Sinclair PhD (Thorsons £20, 416 pp)

Asked recently how long he would like to live, David Sinclair thought: 'It would be nice to see the 22nd century.'

That would require the Harvard genetics professor to make it to a ripe old 131 — a goal he thinks is unlikely but 'not beyond the laws of biology or way off our current trajectory', given the rapid advances in medical research. 'If I do make it that far,' he says, 'maybe I'll want to stick around even longer.'

This infectious optimism runs all through Sinclair's evangelical book, challenging our assumptions about how our minds and bodies must respond to the passing years. He simmers it down to simple terms to help us understand how his colleagues hope to slow and even reverse the ageing process.

Now 50 (with, he boasts, unwrinkled skin, no grey hairs and the heart of a 30-year-old), he also offers lifestyle tips including taking saunas, avoiding food microwaved in plastic, and taking daily doses of vitamins D and K with his breakfast of homemade yoghurt.

The Age-Well project: by Annabel Streets and Susan Saunders (Little, Brown £14.99, 368 pp)

THE AGE-WELL PROJECT

by Annabel Streets and Susan Saunders (Little, Brown £14.99, 368 pp)

Watching their relatives die, too soon, of heart disease, cancer and dementia, two women in their late-40s began to wonder if they still had time to avoid a similar fate.

The mass of research information they collected inspired this conversational guide to a longer and happier life.

Some of their tougher advice includes upping the exercise, cutting the sugar and fasting in short bursts. The latter can produce startling health benefits (possibly even slowing tumour growth) and can mean simply ensuring you leave a good 12 hours between dinner and breakfast.

The merrier news comes in their celebration of the benefits of delicious foods, such as eggs, avocado, walnuts and the olive oil they repeatedly describe as 'liquid gold'. They also make a good case against those boring 'brain training' apps and suggest we try an old-fashioned game of ping-pong instead.

Extra time: Ten Lessons for an Ageing World by Camilla Cavendish (HarperCollins £20, 320 pp)

EXTRA TIME: Ten Lessons for an Ageing World

by Camilla Cavendish (HarperCollins £20, 320 pp)

According to the Institute for Fiscal Studies, people in their 50s and 60s underestimate their chances of survival to age 75 by 20 per cent.

At that age, we are programmed to think we're winding down, both physically and mentally. Camilla Cavendish's own father — an historian and great cat lover — refused to own another pet after the age of 50 in case he left it homeless. Yet he lived in good health until the age of 86, dictating his last article for History Today from his hospital bed.

David Hockney became the world's foremost iPad painter at 76; Tina Turner made the cover of Vogue at 73 and David Attenborough is making hit TV series in his 90s.

In this robustly researched guide to happy, productive and socially valuable longevity, Cavendish (former policy advisor to David Cameron) offers practical advice that extends well beyond the obvious diet, exercise and crosswords. Learn about Dutch balance exercises and German Mehrgenerationenhäuser — putting nurseries and older people under the same roof to the benefit of both.