Maya Forstater's beliefs were 'not worthy of respect in a democratic society', a judge said

The tax expert sacked after tweeting 'men cannot become women' has thanked JK Rowling and others who have backed her, including Sharon Davies and Duncan Bannatyne.

The Central London Employment Tribunal upheld the dismissal of Maya Forstater, 45, after she shared her views on reforms to Gender Recognition Certificates, with Judge James Tayler describing her beliefs as 'not worthy of respect in a democratic society'.

Harry Potter author Mrs Rowling, 54, voiced her support for Miss Forstater, amplifying the already significant debate around the validity of her views and her dismissal from the Centre for Global Development think tank.

Miss Forstater today posted an update on her Crowd Justice page, which has £93,000 pledged to it, up from £83,000 yesterday, saying the '50,000' who tweeted in support of her had highlighted how important this issue is.

'I think that everyone who has spoken up, whether for the first time or the hundredth time feels like a corner has been turned,' she said.

'Of course there has also been vitriolic personal abuse. This has become the norm for women who wish to express their belief on this subject. We will not be bullied into silence. And people are beginning to see the bullying for what it is.'

Miss Forstater's solicitor, Peter Daly, of Slater and Gordon, said: 'This case must go through the litigation process in which evidence is tested according to the relevant legal principles.

'We are of the view that the judgment has not applied those principles correctly. We are continuing to consider the judgment and our potential next steps.'

Dragon's Den star and entrepreneur Duncan Bannatyne tweeted his support of Miss Forstater using the hashtag #IStandWithMaya, saying: 'Although we must respect each and every transsexual it is not possible to change your biological sex.'

Former Olympic swimmer Sharon Davies MBE revealed her support for Miss Forstater, saying: 'The sex we are is a biological reality. A scientific fact.'

But actress, presenter and model Jameela Jamil voiced her opposition to the popular hashtag, revealling she had 'unfollowed' Mrs Rowling on Twitter following the row.

She added: 'Please follow more trans people, please read about their experiences in this world and know you are contributing to their erasure, abuse and suffering by supporting those who deny their identity/existence. Please wield your immense power to protect those most at risk.

Dragon's Den star and entrepreneur Duncan Bannatyne tweeted his support of Miss Forstater using the hashtag #IStandWithMaya, saying: 'Although we must respect each and every transsexual it is not possible to change your biological sex'

Actress, presenter and model Jameela Jamil voiced her opposition to the popular hashtag, revealling she had 'unfollowed' Mrs Rowling on Twitter following the row

'Some people think unfollowing=cancelling. 1) it isn't, it's just protecting your headspace from upsetting content. Which I recommend doing. If you want to find toxicity you can search for it, but best have that happen on your terms. 2) cis white billionaires are un-cancellable.'

Transgender woman Kristina Harrison, who gave a statement in support of Miss Forstater, said: 'A UK judge declares this unworthy of respect in a democratic society and incompatible with the dignity and human rights of others.

'Please judge for yourself. Should I be harassed or sacked for publishing and arguing for this view? NOTHING will stop me doing so.'

She told the Telegraph the judgment was 'a licence to harass and sack people who challenge sexist identity politics'.

The case was viewed as a test of whether views that there are only two biological sexes and it is not possible to change between them could be protected philosophical beliefs under the 2010 Equality Act.

Mark Hamill, known primarily for his role as Luke Skywalker in the Star Wars films, 'liked' Mrs Rowling's tweet and came under fire - just as she did - for being 'transphobic'.

Miss Harrison tweeted: 'Please judge for yourself. Should I be harassed or sacked for publishing and arguing for this view? NOTHING will stop me doing so'

American actress Patricia Arquette said: 'I do not stand with Maya for many reasons'

But Mr Hamill clarified: 'Ignorance is no excuse, but I liked the tweet without understanding what the last line or hashtags meant. It was the 1st 4 lines I liked & I didn't realize it had any transphobic connotation.'

Rowling was accused of being a 'TERF' - a 'trans exclusionary radical feminist' - after claiming Ms Forstater was 'forced out of her job for stating sex is real'.

The 'TERF' label is often given to those who think men who transition to women should not necessarily be considered women.

SNP MP for Edinburgh South West Joanna Cherry also 'liked' Mrs Rowling's tweet, and when called upon to explain why she would do such a thing said: 'Because it's true and [by the way] I don't let men police my speech.'

American actress Patricia Arquette, whose sister Alexis was transgender, said: 'I do not stand with Maya for many reasons.'

She added: 'She claims women's healthcare can be negatively impacted because trans women can be used to test medications for women. This does not happen.

'Medical testing has not been applied fairly to women because of medical bias not because of trans women.'

JK Rowling was branded a transphobe and a 'TERF' - or 'trans exclusionary radical feminist' - over her support for Miss Forstater.

Using the hashtag #IStandWithMaya, Rowling tweeted: 'Dress however you please.

'Call yourself whatever you like. Sleep with any consenting adult who'll have you. Live your best life in peace and security.

'But force women out of their jobs for stating that sex is real? #IStandWithMaya #ThisIsNotADrill'.

Star Wars actor Mark Hamill came under fire for 'liking' JK Rowling's tweet backing Maya Forstater - but subsequently explained he was unaware of its 'transphobic connotation'

SNP MP for Edinburgh South West Joanna Cherry also 'liked' Mrs Rowling's tweet, and when called upon to explain why she would do such a thing said: 'Because it's true and [by the way] I don't let men police my speech'

Fans of her books piled on to Mrs Rowling online, voicing their disappointment and disgust with the author for her difference of opinion.

Miss Forstater, who has raised £91,000 on a crowdfunding website to pay for her legal fees, is now considering whether to challenge the judgement.

Yesterday, the figure stood at £83,000.

Miss Forstater's case was viewed as a test of whether gender critical views - that there are only two biological sexes and it is not possible to change between them - could be protected philosophical beliefs under the 2010 Equality Act.

Employment Judge James Tayler rejected that view in his landmark judgment, which said Miss Forstater's views are 'incompatible with human dignity and fundamental rights of others'.

Pictured: JK Rowling in New York in 2015

In his judgement he said: 'If a person has transitioned from male to female and has a Gender Recognition Certificate (GRC), that person is legally a woman. That is not something [Miss Forstater] is entitled to ignore.'

He added: 'Even paying due regard to the qualified right to freedom of expression, people cannot expect to be protected if their core belief involves violating others' dignity and creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating, or offensive environment for them.'

Miss Forstater, who wrote on Twitter in September last year that 'men cannot change into women', said after the ruling: 'I struggle to express the shock and disbelief I feel at reading this judgement, which I think will be shared by the vast majority of people who are familiar with my case.

'There are two sexes, male and female. Men and boys are male. Women and girls are female. It is impossible to change sex. These were until very recently understood as basic facts of life by almost everyone.

'As I said at my tribunal I will as a matter of courtesy use preferred pronouns and I support human rights. Everyone should be free to express themselves, to break free of gender stereotypes and to live free of violence, harassment and discrimination.

'But this does not require removing people's freedom to speak about objective reality, or to discuss proposed changes to law and to government policies clearly.'

She adds that the judgement 'gives judicial licence for women and men who speak up for objective truth and clear debate to be subject to aggression, bullying, no platforming and economic punishment.'