A man who hardly left his flat for four years because he was so ashamed of his 51 stone body has revealed he is to start work again for the first time in 12 years - and is getting married.

Paul Stevenson, 38, from Alvaston, Derby, says his life has transformed after years of gorging on three or four takeaways a day.

As well as getting a job, Paul, who now weighs around 18 stone, is to marry the love of his life, Kelly, after popping the question earlier this year.

In 2015, Paul was so big, his scales were unable to register his full weight and his life was in danger due to his bad eating habits.

Paul Stevenson, 38, from Alvaston, Derby,spent years gorging on three or four takeaways a day and his weight

Paul is set to marry his fiancee Kelly in the New Year, and said that she has been his biggest supporter throughout his quest to lose weight

His downward spiral began following the death of his mother, when he began living off a diet of pizzas, chips, and cobs.

It got to the point where he had to take action or he would die.

Through pure determination, he managed to reduce his weight to 42 stone so he could have an NHS sleeve gastrectomy operation, a type of surgery which can permanently remove a portion of the stomach.

Paul said having the operation is the reason he is still alive today.

Paul, 38, said: I'm absolutely loving life again and it feels great. I'm buzzing to start work again and 'I'm going to be marrying an incredible person. I've got so much to look forward to.'

The Derby County fan has been on a strict fitness regime to get his life back on track.

After losing 33st with a sleeve gastrectomy, Paul Stevenson is set to start working as a hospital porter - his first job in 12 years

Paul has embarked on a strict fitness regime after having a gastric sleeve to remove a portion of his stomach. Pictured: During his weight loss transformation

Working out: Paul admitted that he has a 'way to go' but is determined to keep up his healthy lifestyle. Since losing 33st, he's able to get out and socialise and will be starting his first job in more than a decade

He has been to Holland for another operation to remove excess skin, done countless hours in the gym, taken part in motivational speeches to help others, and has also secured a job.

Paul is set to go to work for the first time in 12 years when he starts his new job as a porter at Royal Derby Hospital in the new year.

As well as this, he is also preparing for his biggest day yet when he marries his girlfriend of two years.

Paul said: 'I'm buzzing to be starting work again. Because of my size, working was pretty much impossible.

At his heaviest, Paul was barely able to leave his flat and had given up hope of finding a job (left). Right: Paul after his transformation. He is set to marry his girlfriend of two years in the New Year and wants to help others with their weight loss

'I can't tell you how much this means to me. I was over the moon when I found out.

'I think it is an ideal job for me as I'll be going ward to ward helping out and doing what is required. I can't wait to start.

What is a sleeve gastrectomy? A sleeve gastrectomy is where a large part of the stomach is removed so it's much smaller than it was before. This means you can't eat as much as you could before surgery and you'll feel full sooner. Weight loss is usually quicker with a gastric sleeve than with a gastric band. However, the risk of complications is higher than with a gastric band. Source: NHS

'My aim has always been to get healthy enough so I can start working. It's a huge thing.

'To say my fiancée is a rock is a big understatement. She has been a mountain to me and is always there for me.

'When I'm having a down day - and there have been a few - she lifts me up and puts a smile on my face.

'I can't wait to get married to her, it's going to be a very special day.

'We met via social networking and she's amazing, she understands everything I've been through.

'At my lowest I never thought I would see the outside of my house again, so to be where I am now is incredible.

'It's been the most insane trip that anyone could wish to go through.'

Paul has paid tribute to his girlfriend Kelly (pictured together) for keeping him motivated, saying: 'When I'm having a down day - and there have been a few - she lifts me up and puts a smile on my face'

Paul also manages a local football team and watches the Rams whenever he can.

He also told how adult film star Kieran Lee helped him to see his beloved Derby County at Wembley in May's Championship play-off final.

But, like thousands of Derby fans, Paul was left disappointed as the Rams lost out to 2-1 Aston Villa.

Paul said: 'I love Derby County - they are a big part of my life.

'I've known the actor Kieran Lee for many years and he gave me some money to get a ticket to see the Rams at Wembley this year.

'I'm so lucky to have a great circle of friends.'

Paul now wants to focus on enjoying his new job and also is keen to help others in any way he can.

Paul said: 'I really want to help those who may be in the same boat as I was.

'It is important people feel like they have someone to talk to - I'd love to be that person who can help.

'I know I've still got a lot of work to do, I'm not perfect, but I'm heading in the right direction.'