Tech giant given two months to bring its practices into line

Google has over 90 per cent market share in search-based advertising

It's the third biggest fine ever issued for abuse of market dominance

Google has been fined £128m by the French Competition Authority for 'abusing its dominant position' and unfairly banning websites from advertising on its search engine.

The authority's chief Isabelle de Silva accused the tech giant of 'brutal and unjustified' suspension of advertisers.

She added: 'Google has the power of life or death for certain companies that live by these advertisements.

'We don't contest Google's right to impose rules. But the rules must be clear and imposed equally to all advertisers.'

The authority, in its first ever sanctioning of the American giant, said the methods used by Google Ads are 'opaque and difficult to understand' and that the company applies them in an 'unfair and random manner.'

It also ordered Google to 'clarify the operating rules of its Google Ads advertising platform.'

France's competition authority fined Google £128million (150 million euros) for anti-competitive behaviour and for having unclear advertising on the Google Ads page.

Isabelle de Silva, chief of the French Competition Authority which has fined Google £128 million

Ms de Silva said that Google holds an 'extraordinarily dominant position' in search-based advertising, with a market share of between 90 and 100 percent, and 'when you have great power, you also have great responsibilities'.

The authority's report said even Google’s own support teams 'sometimes have difficulty understanding the scope and content of the rules themselves.'

Uncertainty 'may have discouraged the development of innovative sites', the competition authority said.

The tech giant has been given two months to work out how it intends to bring its practices into line, it said.

Google said in a statement that it would appeal, and that its advertising policies are designed to protect consumers 'from exploitative and abusive ads.'

It's the latest of several European fines against Google, which faces very little competition for search engine business in Europe.

It has faced a combined £7.3billion in fines from the EU over the last two years.

In 2017, the EU fined Google £2.1 billion for giving preference to its own shopping services. It also faced a record-breaking £3.9 billion charge last year related to its Android mobile operating system. In March, the Commission announced an additional £1.3 billion fine on Google for blocking rivals in the advertising sector.

In January, the French data protection watchdog CNIL fined Google £44million for making it too difficult for users to find information about how it uses their personal data.

Earlier this week, Britain's competition watchdog signaled its willingness to push for stricter rules to counter Google and Facebook's dominance of online advertising.

The Competition and Markets Authority said in an interim report it's concerned that the U.S. tech giants have become 'entrenched' players in the UK's £13 billion digital advertising market, with 'negative consequences' for the people and businesses that use them.

Google made £6billion from search advertising in the UK last year - more than 90 per cent of the UK total while Facebook's £2billion in display ad revenue was equivalent to almost half the UK total.

Google said it will 'continue to work constructively with the CMA and the government on these important areas.' Facebook said it's 'fully committed to engaging in the consultation process.'