This is the frightening moment a huge sheet of ice smashed a car's windscreen after it sheered off the top of a moving lorry in the fast lane of a motorway.

Terrified nurse Laura Smith said she was 'lucky to be alive' after she managed to control the car when it was hit by ice on the M6.

Mother-of-two Laura, 26, 'feared for her life' when the sheet of solid ice flew from the roof of the lorry and shattered her windscreen.

Dramatic dash cam footage shows the ice fly through the air and shatter on Laura's Peugeot 3008.

Dramatic dash cam footage shows the ice (circled) fly through the air and shatter on Laura's Peugeot 3008

This terrifying image shows the moment just before the huge piece of ice hits the car windscreen

As the ice hits the car, the view through the windscreen becomes completely blocked

Laura, from Rugby, Warwickshire, is speaking out to raise awareness and encourage all drivers to check the roofs of their vehicles for ice.

Laura, a nurse at Coventry Hospital, said: 'I could have died and feel so lucky.

'I was driving in the fast lane of the motorway and I feel fortunate that the only damage done was to the vehicle.

'I feel lucky to still be here and it is scary to think about what could have happened. It was very scary when it happened and I was in a real state of shock.

On impact the dash cam crashes around but manages to capture the moment the windscreen smashes (top right)

A video grab from the rear dash cam shows the piece of ice (circled) after it hit the car windscreen and ricocheted on to the road

The windscreen was badly damaged after the incident which happened on the M6 near Coventry

'It all happened incredibly quickly and I was very panicked.'

Laura was travelling home from a shift at Coventry Hospital at around 4.30pm on February 1 this year when the incident happened.

The damage done to the windscreen by the piece of ice

She managed to stay composed enough to keep control of the car and steer it onto the hard shoulder.

A Warwickshire Police patrol car just so happened to be travelling behind her at the time of the near-miss.

Officers offered to escort her home as she finished her journey with a dangerously smashed window.

Laura has described the moment the ice hit her car - and recalls thinking she was being attacked.

She said: 'I thought someone had thrown something at me. I thought someone was trying to hurt me.

'I slowed down and put the hazard lights on so I could pull onto the hard shoulder. It was very scary and I was shaking.'

Laura added how the incident could have ended much differently for her and could have resulted in injury.

Laura (pictured with her family: Neil, 35, Alfie, 10 and Leon, 12) said how the incident could have ended much differently for her and could have resulted in injury

She is appealing to all drivers to ensure they check the roof of their vehicles before starting any journey this winter.

Laura said: 'If more people were aware of the risks then they are more likely to check the tops of their vehicles.

'It can have a really bad effect and I do feel lucky to be here today.'