Former 60 Minutes journalist Lara Logan is suing New York magazine for $25million over an alleged 'hit piece' about her retracted coverage of the Benghazi attack.

CBS was forced to retract Logan's story in 2013 after a source who claimed to have been at the scene of the Libyan embassy attack was discredited.

The following year, journalist Joe Hagan wrote about the case for New York magazine, in an article which Logan claims has 'derailed' her career.

Logan claims that the article's title - Benghazi and the Bombshell - was a sexist double entendre and intended to portray her as a 'dangerous' journalist.

The magazine says it stands by its reporting.

Claimant: Former 60 Minutes journalist Lara Logan (pictured in Baghdad) is suing New York magazine for $25million over an alleged 'hit piece' in 2014

Defendant: Joe Hagan wrote about Logan's retracted story for New York magazine in 2014, in an article which Logan claims has 'derailed' her career

The lawsuit, which was filed in a federal court in Austin last week, accuses Hagan and the magazine of making 'a legion of false and defamatory statements'.

Lawyers for Logan allege that the article, which they refer to as the 'Hagan Hit Piece' was intended to 'smear Logan'.

'The headline reference to "Bombshell" was both sexist, insulting and defamatory at the same time,' the lawsuit says.

'The word was intended to portray Logan as a dangerous, untouchable and incendiary reporter.'

The lawsuit also claims that Logan's salary was cut as a direct result of the article amid the fallout from the Benghazi controversy.

Logan was earning $1.9million in 2012-13 and her salary was expected to rise to more than $2.1million by 2015, her lawyers say.

'But for the Hagan Hit Piece, Logan would have earned more than $2.15million per year as a 60 Minutes correspondent,' they say.

Logan (pictured in 2017) accuses Hagan and the magazine of making 'a legion of false and defamatory statements'

Logan claims that the article's title - Benghazi and the Bombshell - was a sexist double entendre and intended to portray her as a 'dangerous' journalist

The lawsuit also claims that Logan's salary was cut as a direct result of the article amid the fallout from the Benghazi controversy (she is pictured presenting coverage of the attack)

'She was young and extremely talented. She expected to work for CBS indefinitely.

'The Hagan Hit Piece soured CBS on Logan. It had a direct and substantial impact on her business and income.'

The lawsuit says that the Hagan article 'entirely and completely derailed' Logan's planned return to the network.

Lauren Starke, a spokeswoman for New York magazine, said yesterday that the 'article was thoroughly vetted and fact-checked, and we stand by our reporting.'

Logan's 60 Minutes report in October 2013 had included an interview with former security contractor Dylan Davies, who claimed he took part in fighting at the Benghazi embassy.

Davies claimed he had rushed to the scene of the attack where U.S. Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens was killed in September 2012.

But Davies's story quickly unraveled and was shown to be false, forcing CBS to retract the story and Logan to apologize on air.

Logan was sent on leave of absence for six months and eventually left CBS in 2018 when her contract was not renewed.

An internal CBS review found that Logan and her colleagues on 60 Minutes should have done a better job of checking the source's claims.

A new documentary series hosted by Logan is set to air on Fox Nation, Fox News' streaming service, in January.