Piers Morgan poked fun at his sober Good Morning Britain co-host Susanna Reid after hosting a champagne-fuelled festive party on Thursday night.

The TV personality, 54, was joined by his showbiz pals for a Christmas knees-up at the Scarsdale Tavern in Kensington, west London, and joked he had even 'got The Grinch partying again' with Susanna, 49, in attendance.

Posting a selfie of the pair to his Twitter page on Friday morning, Piers referenced his 'TV wife' and co-anchor's decision to quit booze in 2018.

'I got The Grinch partying again': Piers Morgan, 54, poked fun at his sober Good Morning Britain co-host Susanna Reid, 49, after his festive party in London on Thursday night

Not so boozy bash: The TV personality referenced Susanna's decision to quit alcohol in 2018 in his tweet

Piers and Susanna appeared to be in good spirits as they posed for a selfie together at the star-studded bash.

Both the presenters were grinning, with Susanna sporting a bright red lipstick and touch of festive, sparkly eye-shadow.

She also shared the snap on social media, telling her 435K Instagram followers it was the 'last time you'll see us together this decade.'

The breakfast TV host decided to give up alcohol after a doctor's warning about her weight gain and has previously admitted to only a couple of slip ups.

Glamorous: The breakfast host was looked dazzling while at the bash held at Scarsdale Tavern in Kensington and also shared her selfie with Piers on social media

Despite her skin being clearer and not getting 'hangxiety' anymore, she told the The Sunday Times Style magazine in June that Piers thinks she's 'become the world’s biggest bore' since ditching the sauce.

Writing in the Daily Mail this week, Susanna also called herself a 'Christmas Grinch' saying she'll be sticking too the sparkling water at Piers' party.

She said: 'Piers Morgan's Christmas bash is coming up — the annual reminder of how much fun I ought to be having.

'But, sadly, I'm disqualified from any such fun — the Christmas Grinch in the corner with a glass of sparkling water firmly clasped in hand.'

Big night: Piers admitted he was feeling the effects of the previous evening as he tweeted his 'head hurts' on Friday morning

However Susanna made sure to point out that she has 'no regrets' about giving up alcohol but does have to remind herself 'in a stern voice to have fun' at boozy events.

And it seems that Piers had such a good time at his party on Thursday night that he was left a little worse for wear on Friday morning.

Sharing some snaps of the event on Twitter he admitted he was feeling the effects of a heavy night, which included a £4,200 champagne bill, and wrote 'my head hurts..'.

Cricketer Kevin Pietersen even hilariously called Piers out for serving prosecco rather than champagne on the night.

This prompted Piers to share his receipt and confirm he did splash out on Bollinger, as well as beers and wine for his guests.

Big spender: He also shared a picture of his bar bill, which included 60 bottles of Bollinger

Joker: Piers clapped back at Kevin Pietersen after he was called out for serving prosecco rather than champagne

Cricketer Kevin appeared extremely disappointed with the fact that the journalist decided to serve prosecco - as he shared a video and branded Piers 'a fraud'.

He jibed Piers about the change in drink as he shared a caption reading: 'Sooooo disappointed in @piersmorgan. Serving Prosecco when he invited us saying he’s a champagne boy! You Are A Fraud!'

Defiant Piers hit back at the claims as he stated: 'I only serve Bollinger... You just can't taste the difference.'

Ensuring he proved his point, the cheeky star took to Twitter the following morning to share a copy of his receipt.

Here he is! Social media was littered with snaps and insights from Piers's party - to hilarious effect, with Kevin calling him out for serving prosecco

Happy days: Kate had a laugh about how she missed her return to TV after a stint in the I'm A Celeb jungle earlier on Thursday as she posed with the whole GMB gang

As well as the prosecco banter, Piers' Good Morning Britain co-star Kate Garraway also revealed she left the bash early on for fear of missing work.

Earlier in the day she had overslept and missed her return to the show after staring on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!.

Kate took to social media the following morning to reveal she was ready for work despite the raucous evening, as she shared a dishevelled selfie.

Another guest at the bash, Holly Willoughby, also revealed she attempted to avoid a hangover by eating a cheese sandwich.

She wrote: 'Tactical cheese sandwich before tonight’s Christmas festivities'.

Other stars including Sheridan Smith, Christine Lampard, Georgia Toffolo and Kay Burley also made an appearance at the party.