A Lamborghini driver was left red-faced after his flashy supercar creaked to a halt outside Harrods and had to be pushed along the road by policewomen.

To the snorts of passersby, the officers and another man shoved the showy spoiler of the £250,000 Aventador through Knightsbridge.

The petrol head motorist was too embarrassed to leave the car and instead buried his head in his hands.

Sniggering witnesses noted the irony of the gas-guzzling vehicle, which hits breakneck speeds of 218mph, having to be slowly nudged 330ft through one of the most expensive areas of London.

The bystander who photographed the breakdown said many people stopped to watch the unusual scene - and that 'everybody was laughing'.

A Lamborghini driver was left red-faced after his flashy supercar creaked to a halt outside Harrods and had to be pushed along the road by policewomen

Sniggering witnesses noted the irony of the gas-guzzling vehicle, which hits breakneck speeds of 218mph, having to be slowly nudged 330ft through one of the most expensive areas of London

The man, who did not wish to be identified, said: 'Everybody could see the irony of the situation - there were howls of laughter.

'We have all these expensive supercars that drive around Knightsbridge and Mayfair at horrible speeds, making a lot of noise, at all hours of the day and night.

'It's a very busy part of London, so they drive at about five miles-an-hour, but with their engines revved up to the max. It drives everybody in the area nuts.

'And this car, which it turns out has only got 7,000 miles on the clock, just stopped right outside Harrods, and ended up being pushed by two ladies.'

The man added: 'The two police officers pushed the car at least 100 metres down the road. They weren't annoyed or anything, they were very noble.

To the snorts of passer-bys (van driving past), the officers and another man shoved the showy spoiler of the £250,000 Aventador through Knightsbridge

The petrol head motorist was too embarrassed to leave the car and instead buried his head in his hands

'The driver was very embarrassed. He didn't get out of the car, but I could see him through the windscreen with his head in his hands.'

The witness, who lives in Knightsbridge, a 'stone's throw' from Harrods, said he did not stay around to see whether the car restarted.

The vehicle's records show that the Lamborghini was first registered in September 2012, and its current driver has owned it since June 2018.

The car's road tax is in date, and the vehicle passed its last MOT in May this year, with 6,770 miles on the clock.