EastEnders bosses have reportedly been sent into a panic after a top secret Christmas script was stolen from star Jessica Plummer's car.

A pal close to the actress told The Sun that thieves broke into her car to steal the script which was on the back seat and it is yet to be recovered.

It comes as fans eagerly await EastEnders' annual Christmas Day special, which is expected to be far from festive as Sharon's Mitchell's affair with Keanu Taylor is exposed.

Dramatic: EastEnders bosses have reportedly been sent into a panic after a top secret Christmas script was stolen from star Jessica Plummer's car

Insiders claimed that Jessica - who plays Chantelle Atkins on the soap - had her car broken into while she was parked outside her daughter's nursery.

The theft sparked panic among show bosses who were terrified about some of the soap's most crucial plot elements leaking before the episodes aired.

A pal of Jessica said: 'Her heart sunk. She's only been in the show for less than a year and she was absolutely terrified of upsetting EastEnders top brass.

'They were more concerned about details of the Christmas episodes getting leaked to the public – and spoiling all their hard work. They waited it out though and it seems to have paid off as nothing has come of it.'

Close call: A pal close to the actress claimed that thieves broke into her car to steal the script which was on the back seat and it is yet to be recovered

While the publication claimed the producers considered rewriting the episodes, a source has told MailOnline that there was 'no intention' to change any of the episodes.

MailOnline has contacted representatives for EastEnders for further comment.

The theft comes as fans are eagerly anticipating the soap's Christmas Day special, which is expected to be full of dramatic and dark scenes.

Scary: The theft has left producers terrified that details about the upcoming Christmas special would be leaked, but so far nothing has come to light

Among the highlights will be Phil Mitchelle's explosive reaction to learning that his pregnant Sharon had an affair with young Keanu, and that he is not the father to her unborn baby.

It's also set to be an unhappy Christmas for the Carters, as Linda's drinking spirals out of the control and she does a disappearing act on the big day.

As Mick desperately tries to make the day a fun one for their young son Ollie, the pressure becomes too much and he suffers a panic attack.

EastEnders airs its festive special on Christmas Day at 9:30pm on BBC One.