Roxy Jacenko isn't waiting for the New Year to get her body into shape.

Instead to making a resolution, the PR guru, 39, is hitting the gym now taking to Instagram on Friday to reveal she's getting a head start.

She shared a photo of herself sitting on large black fitness ball in her gym at her lavish Vaucluse mansion.

'Time to get back into it!' Roxy Jacenko took to Instagram on Friday to share a photo of herself in her home gym after eight months away from working out

The blonde bombshell wore wireless headphones around her neck, with a loose white shirt and leggings from Roar Republic.

'It’s been 8 months - time to get back into it!' she declared in the caption.

Roxy's return to the gym comes after stepping back from her intense work regimen which she maintained from around 2016 to early 2019.

Fit: Roxy's return to the gym comes after stepping back from her intense work regimen which she maintained from around 2016 to early 2019

Constant exercising: Throughout the past two years the Sydney publicist documented her gruelling workouts that were usually five days a week with a personal trainer

Throughout the past two years the Sydney publicist documented her gruelling workouts that were usually five days a week with a personal trainer.

She also lived on a very restrictive diet and told Daily Mail Australia, back in July 2017, that she would start her day with a 'skim piccolo and one slice of vegemite toast.'

Roxy revealed that she enjoyed: 'kingfish sashimi x 6 pieces and 6 x cooked tuna mini roll' for lunch and dinner - all washed down with a 'glass or three of Viognier – white wine.

At one stage during 2016, Roxy's weight plummeted to just 45 kilos.

Healthy living: Roxy has since stopped her self-destructive to get her life back on track with important lifestyle changes, including eating healthier

The extreme weight loss was caused after she faced a series of personal setbacks, including the imprisonment of her husband Oliver Curtis for insider trading and being diagnosed with breast cancer.

Roxy has since stopped her self-destructive to get her life back on track with important lifestyle changes, including eating healthier, for both for herself and her family - husband Oliver, daughter Pixie, eight, and son Hunter, five.

'I had to make changes to be able to be a good mother, have the ability to focus, and to be healthy,' she said.