Jacqueline Jossa looked strained as she joined husband Dan Osborne for a family meal at Toby Carvery on Thursday after he issued a public apology for his indiscretions.

The I'm A Celebrity winner, 27, appeared deep in thought as she walked on ahead with her 17-month-old toddler Mia on one hip while Dan, 28, followed behind with their daughter Ella, four, and his son Teddy, six, from a previous relationship.

Jacqueline has been spending plenty of time with her family since returning to the UK following her win on the ITV series.

Strained: Jacqueline Jossa looked strained as she joined husband Dan Osborne for a family meal at Toby Carvery after he issued a public apology for his indiscretions

The perplexed star looked stylish as dressed for the cool weather in a tailored beige military-style coat with gold buttons on it.

The EastEnders star displayed her jungle weight loss in a white top and a pair of black skinny jeans.

Adding some glamorous touches, Jacqueline accessorised her ensemble with a pair of diamond-encrusted black ankle boots and a quilted handbag.

Family trip: The I'm A Celebrity winner, 27, appeared deep in thought as she walked on ahead with her 17-month-old toddler Mia on one hip while Dan, 28, followed behind with their daughter Ella, four, and his son Teddy, six, from a previous relationship

Deep in thought: Jacqueline has been spending plenty of time with her family since returning to the UK following her win on the ITV series

Lunch out: The EastEnders star displayed her jungle weight loss in a white top and a pair of black skinny jeans

Glamorous: Adding some glamorous touches, Jacqueline accessorised her ensemble with a pair of diamond-encrusted black ankle boots and a quilted handbag

Casual: Meanwhile her husband Dan cut a casual figure in a pair of grey patterned gym leggings, a tight-fitting black T-shirt and trainers

Meanwhile her husband Dan cut a casual figure in a pair of grey patterned gym leggings, a tight-fitting black T-shirt and trainers.

The family appeared to be making the most of Jacqueline's return after she was separated from her family for three weeks on I'm A Celebrity.

Jacqueline and Dan welcomed Ella, four, in 2015 and Mia, 17-months, in 2018, he had son Teddy, six, with ex Megan Tomlin in 2013.

Strained: The family appeared to be making the most of Jacqueline's return after she was separated from her family for three weeks on I'm A Celebrity

Family-of-five: Jacqueline and Dan welcomed Ella, four, in 2015 and Mia, 17-months, in 2018, he had son Teddy, six, with ex Megan Tomlin in 2013

Date night: Jacqueline was last seen on a date night with her husband on Monday night as they spent some quality time together

'Stronger than ever': The couple - who Dan says are now 'stronger than ever' following two years of cheating claims - enjoyed a lovely meal together

Day out: Dan shares his six-year-old son Teddy with his ex Megan Tomlin

Sweet: Jacqueline broke down in tears during her time on I'm A Celebrity as felt homesick, missing her family

Jacqueline was last seen on a date night with her husband on Monday night as they spent some quality time together.

The couple - who Dan says are now 'stronger than ever' following two years of cheating claims - enjoyed a lovely meal together.

The TV star shared the video which saw a waiter set fire to 28-year-old Dan's plate of langoustines, which made the actress laugh as he was taken aback by the flames.

Spending time together: Jacqueline shared a video on Monday which saw a waiter set fire to 28-year-old Dan's plate of langoustines, which made the actress laugh as he was taken aback by the flames during a date night

She said: 'You weren't expecting that, were you?' and he laughed and replied: 'No!'

It's fair to say, the couple are hoping to start afresh with their relationship after a troubled time.

Jacqueline has said Dan is aware that he has 'done wrong' but that they both want to be together.

Loving life: Jacqueline giggled when Dan was taken aback that the waiter set his dinner on fire

He's sorry... now: The 28-year-old reality star took to Instagram earlier in the day to admit that he has 'made mistakes that almost cost me my family'

Earlier in the day, Dan said sorry to his wife and her family, following speculation that he cheated on her.

The ex reality star took to Instagram to admit that he has 'made mistakes that almost cost me my family' but that he and Jacqueline are 'stronger than ever'.

The statement - which has been posted days after his wife Jacqueline was crowned queen of the jungle on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!

It read: 'So after weeks, months and years of constant articles & rumours, some true, some very untrue I want to publicly say I know I have made mistakes.

Mistakes were made: Dan publicly apologised to his wife Jacqueline and their family, following months of speculation that he has cheated on her (pictured after her win in December)

'We all do as humans, but I've made some that have almost cost me my family.

'I have seriously learned from these massively, so I want to publicly apologise to my beautiful wife and my family for the mistakes I've made.

'I am the luckiest man in the world to have what I have with Jacqueline and my three incredible children and I will spend the rest of my life being the best husband and dad that I can be.

'Jac, myself and our families are excited for the future, one filled with love and happiness together.

Reunited: The post comes days after his wife Jacqueline, 27, was crowned Queen of the Jungle on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!

'We truly appreciate everyone that has supported us as a couple, we are ending this year stronger than ever.'

The post was uploaded just hours after Jacqueline addressed how things are with Dan on Monday's edition of Lorraine, saying her husband has 'done wrong' but that she wants to 'restart their relationship'.

Not holding back, she said: 'The thing is, it’s really funny because we've been going through it for two years - this isn’t new for me.

'He knows he's done wrong': Jacqueline addressed infidelity claims about Dan on Lorraine on Monday as she admitted she's 'given him hell for two years but wants to restart their relationship'

Troubled times: Dan has previously denied all claims of infidelity behind his wife's back (pictured on Celebrity Big Brother in 2018)

'It got brought up again because of Myles but at the same time, I was glad it made me think about it, I didn't have a choice but to think about it... but it helped me.

'I want to hit the restart button, it’s been two years of me giving him hell, he knows he’s done wrong, there's lots of stuff that’s not true that I can’t talk about for legal reasons, but we're OK.'

Dan was linked to Myles Stephenson's ex Gabby Allen, a claim they both denied.

Not sure: Lorraine appeared a little bemused as Jacqueline said of the affair claims: 'It got brought up again because of Myles but at the same time, I was glad it made me think about it'

Happy ever after? Jacqueline said she and Dan are now in a good place

Shocked: Jacqueline admitted she didn't think she would win the show for a second. She said: 'No way. I thought I’d be really happy with sixth place'

He was also accused of having a threesome with Natalie Nunn and Chloe Ayling after they appeared on Celebrity Big Brother last year. Another claim he denied at the time.

Jacqueline and Dan married in July 2017 and have two children together, Ella, four and Mia, 17-months.

While they have had a rocky time of things, Jacqueline claims they are now in a good place.

While on the show, she also spoke about losing weight as she talked about regaining her confidence.

Reboot: While on the show, she also spoke about losing weight as she talked about regaining her confidence

Fury: Dan later hit back at claims he had a threesome with CBB co-stars Chloe (second from right) and Natalie behind his wife's back (pictured 2018 with Ben Jardine)

She said: 'Thank you jungle diet. It’s the first thing I asked when I got out, how much weight did I lose? I lost a stone.

'I thought I’d lose more but we got so many stars so we ate loads.'

Jacqueline also spoke about that horrendous final trial she took part in, in which she had to hold a giant spider in her mouth.

Words: Jacqueline said the rumours about Dan and Gabby were reignited as she was in the jungle with Gabby's ex Myles Stephenson (pictured in the jungle)

Ouch! Gabby and Dan were pictured putting on a flirty display when they both appeared on Celebrity Big Brother in 2018 - but they always denied being anything more than friends

She said: 'The spider that was in my mouth weed in my mouth, it was awful. it was dripping in my mouth, I couldn't even speak, it was horrible.'

The former EastEnders star said she was tempted to leave the jungle at points.

She said: 'Yeah massively, I definitely thought I’d say the words... I thought in the beginning that you can say that, but then you realise you’re doing it for the family, I didn’t want to go home without getting any stars.

'I will watch all the trials because I was so curious, everyone else’s. I can’t watch mine, I can’t do it I'm not ready to watch myself screaming and crying.'

Love: Jacqueline and Dan married in July 2017 and the actress has said she wants to 'restart their relationship' (pictured)

Glam: Jacqueline also won the praise of fans this week when she showcased her stunning weight loss since departing the jungle, with many branding her look 'amazing'

Jacqueline admitted she didn't think she would win the show for a second.

She said: 'No way. I thought I’d be really happy with sixth place. One of my friends put 1000 [on me to win] and he won 10,000.'

The star was also thrilled about the close friends she made in camp.

She said: 'Caitlyn and I are best friends and she's got my number. I got a video message from Kylie, she said my name and said: "Oh my god Jacqueline you've done so well".'

Jacqueline admitted she doesn't know what her next move is, saying: 'I haven’t even met up with management, but I’d like to do theatre, musical theatre, or be back on the TV or something like that.

'EastEnders? Never say never, I got thrown off a building and walked off with a walking stick and she’s in new Zealand now.'