A dog born with such a such a severe facial disfigurement it leaves people 'shocked' is now looking for someone to adopt her.

Bethany, an eight-month-old Labrador cross, was born with a condition that means her entire snout twists and droops to one side, exposing her teeth.

While her lop-sided face may be startling to look at, it doesn't impact the 'happy-go-lucky' pooch's health in any way.

Bethany, who was vet-checked and approved to travel from Romania to UK after her rescue, can eat, drink, run and play just like any other pup.

Now her rescuers at the charity Safe Rescue For Dogs, who are based in Norwich, Norfolk, where Bethany is being fostered, want to find her a permanent home.

Bethany (pictured), an eight-month-old Labrador cross, was born with a condition that means her entire snout twists and droops to one side, exposing her teeth

While her lop-sided face may be startling to look at, it doesn't impact the 'happy-go-lucky' pooch's health in any way (Bethany is pictured)

Zoe Casey, 46, a volunteer fosterer at charity Safe Rescue For Dogs, who are based in Norwich, Norfolk, is hoping someone will looks past the dog's disfigurement

Volunteer fosterer Zoe Casey, 46, hopes that whoever adopts Bethany will be able to look past the dog's deformity and instead see her 'amazing' personality.

Ms Casey said: 'There's absolutely nothing wrong with Bethany - she doesn't even snore when she's asleep.

'People have asked "are we sure we're doing the right thing?" and "how do we know?". We know because she's been vet checked and checked again at Calais and Dover at DEFRA.

'If she was ill, she would have been seized because that's their job. She is absolutely fine. She is the most amazing dog. She is gentle and happy.

'We have been out walking her and she's already fine off the lead. She runs around and comes back when called.

'She loves kids, she's good with other dogs, she is as near to perfect temperament-wise as you are ever going to get.

'She is very much a Labrador in her temperament. She's happy-go-lucky and absolutely lovely.'

It is believed by a vet in Romania that the puppies (Bethany is pictured as a puppy) are part Pekingese and the mixture of genes may have contributed to Bethany's wonky face

Safe Rescue For Dogs, which was launched by Ms Casey's sister Kelly Hare, 43, travel to Romania at least once a year to help combat the country's stray dog problem and take in pooches (pictured, Bethany in the UK)

While this is the first time anyone at the charity has seen a dog with a wonky face, Ms Casey says a facial disfigurement is much easier to accept than the emotional turmoil some rescue dogs have endured

Ms Casey added: 'There is an attitude of people looking for the picture-perfect dog but I think people need to look a bit deeper.

'We hope Bethany finds a normal family who treats her like a normal dog because she is normal even if she doesn't look it.

'We just want a nice, run-of-the-mill family who will look after her and not see what she looks like but what she is, an amazing dog.

'What she looks like is irrelevant because her heart is pure gold.'

Bethany's mum was a street dog in Romania when she fell pregnant but a family took her in and helped care for her litter of five pups until they could be rescued.

It is believed by the vet in Romania that the puppies are part Pekingese and the mixture of genes may have contributed to Bethany's wonky face.

Bethany's mum was a street dog in Romania when she fell pregnant but a family took her in and helped care for her litter of five pups until they could be rescued

One of Bethany's siblings has been rehomed already and the charity are still waiting on the arrival of the last two pups into the country (Bethany is pictured left and right)

Zoe Casey, 46, of Norwich, Norfolk has been a volunteer fosterer for six years. She is pictured with two animals at Safe Rescue For Dogs

Safe Rescue For Dogs, which was launched by Ms Casey's sister Kelly Hare, 43, travel to Romania at least once a year to help combat the country's stray dog problem and take in pooches.

One of Bethany's siblings has been rehomed already and the charity are still waiting on the arrival of the last two pups into the country.

While this is the first time anyone at the charity has seen a dog with a wonky face, Ms Casey says a facial disfigurement is much easier to accept than the emotional turmoil some rescue dogs have endured.

Ms Casey said: 'People do see Bethany and they're a bit shocked by her face but when you have worked in the industry, you aren't shocked, you just accept it.

'Sometimes a facial disfigurement is not as bad as a mental disfigurement when does have been treated badly.

'Bethany has not been treated badly. Luckily her mum was rescued before she was born so she hasn't had a bad life. She's not worried or scared.

'With so many dogs we have to work through how they have been treated and that's worse.

'You can get over Bethany's facial disfigurement the moment she looks up at you with he tail wagging.'