Carl Fisher, 29, was left with burns to his hands and face after he sprayed an aerosol air freshener before lighting a cigarette, causing a huge explosion in his car

A man has been left with horrific burns to his hands and face after he sprayed an aerosol air freshener before lighting a cigarette, causing a huge explosion in his car.

Carl Fisher, 29, sprayed a £7.99 'new car' scented air freshener before lighting a Benson & Hedges cigarette around ten minutes later in Halifax, West Yorkshire.

Spray from the aerosol ignited and caused a huge blast which blew out the windscreen, buckled the doors and damaged windows on nearby offices.

Mr Fisher, in shock, was able to climb through the window of his black Seat.

He was transported to Huddersfield Royal Infirmary in an ambulance and later moved to a specialist burns unit.

New images show the severity of his injuries, with painful red marks covering his face and bandages on his hands.

Mr Fisher told The Sun: 'I should be dead right now.'

He added: 'I was literally driving around in a primed bomb and I didn’t have a clue until I went to light a Benson & Hedges and it went off.'

West Yorkshire Fire and Rescue Service said the cause of the 'dramatic' incident was 'excessive' air freshener use.

Carl Fisher from Halifax (pictured next to his damaged car) who is lucky to be alive after his car exploded after lighting a cigarette

Spray from the aerosol ignited and caused a huge blast which blew out the windscreen, buckled the doors and damaged windows on nearby offices. Pictured: the injuries to his face

The damaged black Seat car was pictured (above) in Halifax town centre with damaged doors and windows after the aerosol explosion

At the time, the force wrote on Facebook: 'Shortly after 3pm this afternoon Fountain Street, Halifax, had to be closed due to an exploded aerosol can.

'The fumes exploded and blew out his windscreen, along with some windows at nearby business premises.

'The owner fortunately sustained only minor injuries but this could have been worse.'

The force added: 'Please can members of the public be careful and follow guidelines when using air freshener cans?'

Police said the blast was caused by a lit cigarette after aerosol freshener was used, causing debris to be sprayed across the road and even damaging nearby businesses

Carl Fisher, 29, was left with severe burns to his hands and face after he sprayed an aerosol air freshener before lighting a cigarette, causing a huge explosion in his car. Pictured: Mr Fisher before the incident