Christmas morning will see home cooks across the country rising at dawn to prepare a festive extravaganza to feed the family.

But what if all that hassle could go away and a whole turkey dinner could be cooked in under half an hour?

Iceland has launched a £2.29 take on the classic festive feast, with turkey and stuffing, potatoes, peas, gravy and Brussels sprouts all cooked inside one giant Yorkshire pudding.

Once in the oven, the whole creation takes just 20 minutes to cook - and without an doubt minimises the usual pile of washing up on Christmas morning.

Here eight MailOnline reporters give their verdict on the twist on the classic turkey dinner, with VERY mixed opinions.

Iceland has launched a £2.29 take on the classic turkey Christmas dinner, with turkey and stuffing, potatoes, peas, gravy and Brussels sprouts all cooked inside a giant Yorkshire pudding

CLAIRE

Are Yorkshire puddings usually this soggy?

It felt very thick and heavy, and there was slightly too much sauce for my liking. I would have preferred something less condensed, however, what did I expect for a Christmas dinner crammed into a pudding?

Rating:

TIM

This is a lovely treat. All the individual parts are good – hearty gravy, cracking Yorkshire and carrots and sprouts at the right consistency – and they come together as more than the sum of their parts.

The outer pudding works well as a container and encourages you to take a bit of everything in every mouthful.

Would definitely recommend as a medium-sized Christmas snack, large enough for a lunch but not leaving you stuffed like a full-scale dinner on December 25.

Rating:

Tim (left) thought the Yorkshire pudding was a lovely treat while Claire (right) thought it was too soggy

SARAH

It wasn't as bad as I'd anticipated – I was scared that it was l going to be dry and taste disgusting!

However, it reminded me a little bit of a school dinner. I certainly won't be eating it for my actual dinner on Christmas day though.

The potatoes were slightly dry and the gravy was a little too salty, but the turkey was tasty and so was the Yorkshire pudding.

Rating:

Sarah (left) thought the dish wasn't bad, but said she wouldn't be tucking into it on Christmas morning while Bridie (right) said the smell reminded her of school dinners

BRIDIE

When I took this out of the pack, I was VERY sceptical. All the pieces were in different packets and it seemed the furthest thing away from the home-cooked deliciousness of Christmas dinner.

That said, when it was cooked and assembled it looked quite good - I wouldn't be annoyed if I'd been served that in a pub. Although the smell gave me traumatic flashbacks to primary school dinners.

The Yorkshire itself was soft and fluffy and the gravy was rich and flavoursome. The stuffing was nutty and the veg weren't soggy, so a valiant effort all around.

I don't think it would replace my Christmas Dinner on December 25, but it would be great for someone who's on their own on Christmas day and doesn't want to go through the rigmarole of baking a full roast. And with change from £3, it's a bargain.

Rating:

Harriet thought the gravy overpowered the taste of the Brussels sprouts - but said she'd eat it with extra veg

HARRIET

I'm not too sure what I think about this Yorkshire pudding creation – the gravy has a very strong flavour which is slightly overpowering the vegetables, making it difficult to get the full Brussels sprout, carrot and stuffing taste.

That being said, any kind of Yorkshire pudding is a win in my book, and it would probably make a fairly nice dinner if paired with some additional greenery.

Rating:

GABBY

I was pleasantly surprised and would actually eat it on Boxing Day if my Papa wasn't already cooking for me.

Rating:

Gabby (left) said she was pleasantly surprised and would actually eat it on Boxing Day, while Talya (right) said it was almost perfect but needed more stuffing

TALYA

The Yorkshire pudding was crisp and the meat moist. I would have given it a five if it had more stuffing.

Rating:

VERDICT: 24/35