A woman was left in tears after her fiancé planned a Christmas-themed wedding which saw her bridesmaid's dressed as elves in Don't Tell the Bride.

In last night's episode of the Channel 4 show, Liam, 23, attempted to throw wife-to-be Georgia, 22, a wintry white wedding with a budget of £12, 000, and even planned for the pair to exchange vows in a snow globe.

However Georgia, who had dreamed of sun, sand and sangria, was left less than impressed by his efforts after dressing her bridesmaids as elves - as viewers branded the venue a 'cut price grotto.'

'When she refuses to wear the chosen dress the show should be pulled. That said they do look ridiculous, like some cut price grotto,' wrote one, while a second penned: 'Actually feel quite sorry for this lad. He has such cute intentions.'

Groom Liam, 23, left his bride-to-be Georgia, 22, in tears after he dressed her bridesmaids as elves in the Christmas episode of Channel 4's Don't Tell the Bride.

The bride-to-be was reduced to tears when she saw the embellished dress Liam had chosen for her by the first time

Towards the end of the episode, Georgia appeared to change her tune and seemed impressed with her new husband's efforts

At the beginning of the episode, Liam revealed he planned to replicate Lapland in Beverley, in Yorkshire, and explained: 'I'm going to do the ultimate Christmas. I want to create my own Winter Wonderland where there is snow everywhere.'

But things turned a bit icy when Georgia, who had always wanted a fitted lace dress, was shown the embellished A-line gown Liam chose for her to wear on their big day instead.

'Oh god it's beaded,' gasped the bride-to-be, before breaking down in tears. 'Oh Jesus, it's got red on it. I'm sorry, but that's terrible. The dress is nice-ish. The dress is massive. How the hell am I going to fit into that?'

But after receiving a call from Georgia's mother Sharon, an annoyed Liam raged: 'I couldn't care, it's so ungrateful of what we've done. I'm sick of it.'

While everyone seemed pleased with Liam's effort when the big day came around, one viewer branded the venue a 'cut price grotto'

At the beginning of the episode, Georgia told how she had always dreamed of sun, sand and sangria. Pictured, with Liam

The bride-to-be broke down in tears when she saw the A-line dress Liam chose for her for the first time - and was particularly upset over the red sash

While guests were disappointed in the lead up to the wedding, everyone seemed impressed with Liam's efforts when the big day finally arrived

After swapping her dress for an alternative, things go from bad to worse for Georgia when she sees her bridesmaid's dresses for the first time - a complete elf outfit.

'I don't understand why he's put his daughter in that,' she said, before asking her bridesmaids: 'Are you not happy wearing it?'

Her mother Sharon responded: 'I said to him, don't make us look stupid - and he has. I'm giving you away dressed like this.'

'I'm not getting married if you're all dressed like this,' added Georgia. 'I'll call it all off. I'm not bothered. My daughter looks ridiculous on my wedding day.'

The bridesmaids, and Georgia's mother Sharon, took the elf outfits in their stride (pictured)

Georgia and Sharon seemed in high spirits when the big day arrived, with the bride admitting: 'I thought the wedding was amazing. There's a lot of detail that's gone into this'

However, while some viewers deemed the bride's reactions as justified, others said she only had herself to blame.

'There's just no pleasing some people, is there?' wrote one, while a second commented: 'Why go on a programme if you're going to whine about it?'

A third commented: 'If you have a dream wedding idea that makes you cry thinking about it, why would you even enter this programme when you know he won't do that.'



However, when the big day finally arrived, Georgia seemed to cheer up when she was chauffeured to the venue in a horse-drawn sleigh.

'I never thought my daughter would get married in a snowglobe,' said Sharon, while a seemingly impressed Georgia replied: 'I thought the wedding was amazing. There's a lot of detail that's gone into this.'