If you need a last-minute Christmas present you can't go wrong with a beauty gift.

Christmas Day is less than a week away, but there's still time to shop a variety of must-have gifts and sets from top beauty brands including Vera Wang, Elemis and Real Techniques in Amazon's Last Minute Christmas Deals event. And if you're a Prime Member, the last day for one-day delivery is Monday 23 December.

What you waiting for? Tick everyone off your list with our top picks from Amazon today.

Go the extra mile and treat them to a gorgeous Elemis set. Inside they'll find a rose-scented trio including the cult-classic Elemis Pro-Collagen Rose Cleansing Balm.

Formulated with rose and mimosa waxes - and not forgetting the firming effects of algae that give Elemis's Marine range its world-renowned name - this cleansing balm dissolves every last scrap of makeup, daily grime and even waterproof mascara. It leaves your complexion clean, nourished and seriously glowy.

This luxurious gift set includes a Pro-Collagen Rose Cleansing Balm, Pro-Collagen Rose Hydro-Mist, Rose Glow Candle and cleansing cloth. It's worth the splurge at this discounted price.

Buy now on Amazon

Shopping for a perfume lover this Christmas? Well you're in luck. Treat yourself, or a loved one to the bestselling Vera Wang Princess Eau de Toilette.

Now better-than-half price, the whimsical fragrance is now on offer for £16.99 – that's an unmissable saving of over 70 per cent off the listed retail price.

The people-pleasing perfume from Vera Wang is the number one bestselling scent in Women's Eau de Toilette on Amazon, having received an average star rating of 4.7 out of 5 from over 1,700 reviews.

The perfume has been bottled in a glass heart and holds a feminine and modern fragrance boasting a blend of rich vanilla, exotic flowers, sweet apple, waterlily and apricot.

Buy now on Amazon

This five-piece makeup brush set from Real Techniques is a great gift for under £15.

Now 36 per cent off, the synthetic brush set from sisters Sam and Nic Chapman, otherwise known as PIXIWOO, includes a contour brush, square foundation brush, detailer brush and buffing brush – everything you need to create a flawless base.

The 100 per cent cruelty free brush set has a stellar average star rating of 4.7 (out of five stars) on Amazon based on more than 300 reviews.

Amazon reviewers love the quality you get for the low price, and many have stated that Real Techniques brushes are the best they've ever tried. A handful of reviews mention that the brush holder is really handy, while others praise the set because the brushes help make makeup application effortless. The brushes are also easy to clean.

Buy now on Amazon

This small (but mighty) gift from This Works will make their day. The pint-sized Christmas gift from This Works will help your friend unwind and drift off into a peaceful and relaxing night's sleep.

The This Works Limited Edition Night & Day Gift Set contains a duo of round the clock essential oil balms, designed to calm you down or lift you up, at the same time as nourishing the skin thanks to a blend of monoi and coconut essential oils.

This Works recommends dabbing the heavenly scented balms on pulse points, or on dry elbows, heels or cuticles to restore, revive or relax. It's a purse-friendly beauty gift that would make a great stocking filler for anyone this Christmas.

Buy now on Amazon

This set of beautifully scented bath bombs from Amazon favourite beauty brand Bomb Cosmetics will help any bath and beauty lover de-stress before and after the festive season.

The Little Box of Love Handmade Bath Melts is the Amazon a bestseller in Bath Bombs and contains six romantic and floral scented bath melts that have been formulated with a creamy, hydrating and nourishing blend of essential oils, pure cocoa and shea butter.

Better yet, the Bomb Cosmetics set is already wrapped and now costs under a tenner (20 per cent off listed retail price), so it's perfect for anyone on a budget.

Buy now on Amazon

Amazon subscription deals Amazon Music Unlimited 4 months, now £0.99 (was £9.99 pm) Amazon is giving UK music lovers the chance to stream four months of Amazon Music Unlimited service for under one pound (that’s a saving of nearly £39). You don't need to be a Prime member to take advantage of this amazing deal, but this trial promotion is only available for new subscribers. Offer valid till January 6th 2020. View offer Premier League live on Prime Video 20 Premier League games will be live and exclusive on Prime Video this December. For the first time ever in the UK all games on the 26 and 27 December will be shown. Existing Amazon Prime customers will be able to access these Premier League fixtures for free. Start your 30 day free trial now (£7.99 pm after trial period). View offer

Check out our discount section for Christmas deals and offers.

MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.