She's known for her exquisite taste, penchant for designer clothes and blinding bling - and she's the first to admit she's 'a shocking spender'.

But PR queen Roxy Jacenko couldn't help but laugh, as she let fans in on an adorable 'internet shopping fail' on Friday.

Speaking to Daily Mail Australia, the 39-year-old revealed that a particular item caught her eye on Emilee Hembrow's Instagram story over the weekend and that in her haste to buy it she missed a key detail.

'This was an internet shopping fail if I’ve ever seen one': PR Queen Roxy Jacenko suffered from an adorable online shopping faux pas on Friday

Roxy explained: 'I saw the Kids Pool Chairs on Emilee Hembrow's story over the weekend. I thought the set was SO cute that I rushed to buy it.'

The Sweaty Betty founder continued: 'It arrived yesterday and I had my handyman Dan from Dot Constructions come and build it today.'

Roxy went on to say that after putting the set together, handyman Dan hilariously asked: 'Roxy, is this for a baby born?'

Oops! Roxy admitted that in her rush to buy the stylish chaise set for her two kids, Pixie, 8, and Hunter, 6, she missed a key detail - it's made for kids aged three and up

Confused, Roxy said she hurried home 'to check or should I say squeeze the kids in', and to see if the pool chairs were indeed as small as Dan had said.

Once home, Roxy couldn't help but laugh at the situation.

She posted a series of adorable snaps with of her two children Pixie, eight, and Hunter, six, posing in the chairs to highlight the very obvious size issue.

'This was an internet shopping fail if I’ve ever seen one,' she wrote in the caption.

'I work hard, I live within my means': In September, Roxy told Daily Mail Australia that her debit card bill is between '$80,000 and $100,00 a month'

Adding: 'I either have to shrink the kids or dedicate this to Oreo [Roxy's pomerianian pup] for when he wants to relax pool side. @emileehembrow I blame you lol.'

Roxy later told Daily Mail Australia: 'Needless to say I think it's far more suited to Oreo than it is the kids, before cheekily saying: 'Height isn't really in the family, so we can't blame Pix and Huntly for being extraordinarily tall.'

According to online retailer Zanui the stylish beige chaise set is for kids aged three and up, 'but maybe three and one day', Roxy joked.