Australians will best remember Nikki Ferris for intruding onto Matt Agnew's season of The Bachelor as a cheerleader.

And the 24-year-old told Daily Mail Australia on Thursday the cosmetic surgery procedures she's both willing, and not in favour of getting.

She admitted there's pressure in society for women to look like an Instagram filter in real life, saying: 'Everybody wants Kylie Jenner's lips or Nicki Minaj's a**.'

'Everybody wants Kylie Jenner's lips or Nicki Minaj's a**': Former Bachelor star Nikki Ferris (pictured), 24, revealed the one cosmetic surgery procedure she will NEVER get

'As long as women are getting cosmetic surgery for themselves and not the constant pressure to look a certain way, I am all for it,' Nikki added.

'If you want lip filler, I am all for it. If you want Botox near your eyebrow, get it girl! As long as women are doing it for themselves to feel good.'

Nikki, a friend of the team behind The Cosmetic Lounge, said she's keen to 'find out about filler' to maker her 'life and lips fuller'.

'I am usually a bit of a scared-y cat when it comes to needles, however,' she said. 'My last blood test I fainted twice, and my best friend who was there for moral support, caught me by my hair extension as I fell off the chair!'

Candid chat: Nikki told Daily Mail Australia that there's pressure in society for women to look like an Instagram filter in real life: 'Everybody wants Kylie Jenner's lips or Nicki Minaj's a**'

Nikki however went on to say that you won't be finding her in the clinic for one particular procedure.

'I heard the other day that some people are getting liposuction and laser treatments on their knees to make the area look tighter. I just don't think I really need that!'

Nikki, who is known for her incredibly svelte figure, told Daily Mail Australia, that like most women, her diet is not always stringent.

'My diet at times, can prove to be like an unsupervised child at a birthday party,' she joked. 'But when I'm in a good eating routine, my body feels at its best.'

What she will and won't get: Nikki said she's keen to 'find out about lip filler' but will never get liposuction or laser treatments on her knees, to make the skin appear tighter

The socialite often consumes a coffee with an extra shot, and an avocado on toast for breakfast.

Lunch is a grilled chicken salad with greens, while dinner is some form of lean protein with vegetables.

Dessert however is where Nikki, like most others, slip up on the health bandwagon.

'I do love chocolate and ice cream. Dessert is my favourite, and I struggle to have self-control with it at times,' the red carpet regular admitted.

'I do love chocolate and ice cream': Nikki, who is known for her incredibly svelte figure, admitted, that like most women, her diet is not always strict. Pictured with Monique Morley

Fitness: Nikki complements her diet with an active lifestyle, enjoying weekly netball sessions and running

'Fun fact, I've been known to eat entire blocks of chocolate during my sleep, which is really sad because I don't even get to savour the moment,' she added with a laugh.

Nikki said that she complements her diet with an active lifestyle, enjoying weekly netball sessions and running.

'I love to exercise, it finds it clears my mind, despite the fact I look like one of those lanky, noodle things you see at car sale places,' she joked.

'I play netball twice a week, I like running because of my long legs, and weights... I'd be lying if I said I didn't enjoy a cheeky squat. You got to work that booty!'