England called up emergency reinforcements to make sure they have 11 healthy bodies for the first Test, but it was one of their walking wounded who climbed off his sick bed to enjoy a productive day against South Africa A.

Craig Overton and Dom Bess will arrive here to provide cover for the three suffering bowlers — Stuart Broad, Jofra Archer and Jack Leach — who remained in quarantine at the team hotel on Friday.

But at least Joe Denly, the fourth member of a squad now swollen to 19 who had suffered from the flu-like symptoms sweeping the camp, was fit enough to make his first century in England colours.

Dom Bess has earned an England recall as cover due to illness in the touring camp

Craig Overton has also been handed a recall with three England players laid low by a virus

Denly was the outstanding performer in what remained a decent workout, despite this final warm-up before the four-Test series beginning in Centurion on Boxing Day being downgraded from first-class status to a friendly because of England's ills.

And his 103 in England's 337 for five, before being run out against a much stronger home side than in the first practice match here, continued an impressive start to this tour for a man rapidly establishing himself in the all-important No 3 role.

'I haven't had the bug quite as bad as some of the boys and it was just a mild case of man flu for me, but I'm all right now,' said Denly afterwards.

'There was a sapping heat out there so I felt quite tired towards the end, but I loaded up on medication and vitamins, so I'm feeling OK. Hopefully the other guys are on the mend now, too.'

Stuart Broad (centre) is one of three players who has been suffering with flu-like symptoms

It is fair to say hopes were not particularly high for Denly among many observers when he was handed a Test debut, just ahead of his 33rd birthday, at the start of this year against West Indies in Antigua.

But, despite being shunted around the order from No 4 to opener before this winter, he has made five half-centuries in his 10 Tests and fell just six runs short of an Ashes hundred in the final match at the Oval last summer.

Denly followed up his unbeaten 62 against an Invitational XI here at Willowmoore Park, and overcame his aches and pains, with a chanceless century against an experienced South Africa A attack.

'It wasn't a Test match but a hundred is a hundred and it's nice to get that first one for England,' added Denly. 'I've managed to spend some time at the crease in both games, so I'm feeling good.'

England were relieved to have won the toss because, even though Cricket South Africa granted their request for this match to be downgraded, their A side would have had no hesitation in sentencing what remains of their attack to a long, hot day in the field.

Despite also suffering from illness, Joe Denly impressed with the bat in the warm-up match

There was decent time in the middle for the bulk of England's Test top order — Ollie Pope impressed in making an unbeaten 70 — as well as a helping hand from South Africa A in the field as they spilled four straightforward chances, the two easiest offered by Ben Stokes in his first outing of the tour.

Now England hope their stricken bowlers will be well enough to at least travel to Benoni, even if they are only able to bowl in the nets, and that others who have displayed symptoms of the illness — Joe Root and Chris Woakes — do not get worse.

It is certainly sensible of England to call up the Somerset pair with just five days to go before the main assignment of their hectic winter.

Overton, who made the last of his four Test appearances against Australia at Old Trafford last summer, is already acclimatised to South African conditions having joined the returning Jimmy Anderson and Mark Wood at a training camp in Cape Town earlier this month.

Bess, who played twice against Pakistan in 2018, is also match-ready having just returned home from a spin-bowling camp in Madras led by Sri Lanka's Rangana Herath.

England can only hope they will not be needed, but time is running out for their bowling big guns Archer and Broad to prove their readiness to take on South Africa next week.