A British teacher has died after suffering an epileptic seizure while staying in Cambodia on a working holiday.

Lewis Davies, 26, had a fit in Phnom Penh, the country's capital, in the early hours of December 18 and died after his heart stopped, despite receiving more than 30 minutes of CPR.

Mr Davies, who was epileptic, was travelling through Thailand, Vietnam and Cambodia on a working holiday with his partner. The couple were teaching English as they travelled.

An undated photo shows the deceased, Lewis Davies, 26, who died in Cambodia on Wednesday after suffering a seizure at a backpacker hostel in Phnom Penh

Cambodian police received reports that a British tourist had died at the Riverside Backpacker Lodge, in Phnom Penh, at around midday on Wednesday.

The former pupil at Barry Boy's Comprehensive was well-known in his home community in Barry, being a regular volunteer presenter on the BRO radio station.

Mr Davies also volunteered at the Atal y Fro Domestic Violence and Abuse Services and stood in the Vale of Glamorgan council elections for the Cadocward in 2012.

In a moving tribute to Mr Davies, the family said: 'He loved music and playing the piano, as well as radio presenting, and he volunteered as a presenter at in Barry. His biggest dreams were to become a full time radio presenter.

An undated photo shows Mr Davies. His family said he 'loved to travel' and 'take every opportunity and experience he could'. They added that Mr Davies was a 'kind, trusting, loving person and had a great sense of humour'

'He also loved to travel the world and take every opportunity and experience he could. Lewis was a kind, trusting, loving person and had a great sense of humor.

'He lived life to his fullest.'

The family are desperately trying to raise funds to fly Mr Davies' body back to the UK after it was discovered his travel insurance had laspsed.

Cousin Ceallach Bennett said it would cost £10,000 to return Mr Davies' body to Welsh soil for a 'proper burial'.

She said: 'We're in desperate need. If his body is in Cambodia for too long, he will be cremated there without any of his family.

'We are all in shock and absolutely heartbroken to have lost our kind, lovely Lewis.'

Vale MP Alun Cairns has been supporting the family in their dealings with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and is urging people to support the fundraising campaign.

Vale MP Alun Cairns, pictured here at Downing Street in September, has been supporting the family in their dealings with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. He also urged people to donate so that the young man's body can be repatriated

He said: 'I'm incredibly sad to hear of Lewis' unexpected passing. Lewis was a passionate community campaigner, involved with many charities and organisations including Bro Radio and Atal y Fro. He also stood in Vale Council elections in Cadoc ward.

'This is a tragic story. At this time of year when family is so important, his mother Joanne has received the worst of news and reuniting Lewis and his family locally would mean so much. I would encourage everyone to show their support.

'Please donate what you can.'