A Virginia mother has been convicted of child neglect in the death of her four-year-old son who shot himself in the head as she slept last year.

Tiara Jefferson, 26, entered an Alford plea to the charge on Wednesday, acknowledging the evidence against her while maintaining her innocence.

Her plea was part of a deal under which prosecutors dropped a charge of felony homicide in the death of Demetrius Jefferson.

Tiara Jefferson, 26 (left), has entered an Alford plea to child neglect in the death of her son, Demetrius (right), in May 2018. The toddler shot himself in the head as his mom slept

Jefferson summoned police to her home in the 200 block of North Laburnum Avenue in Richmond, Virginia, on May 7, 2018, after finding her son fatally shot

The woman told police she awoke in her apartment in the 200 block of North Laburnum Avenue to the sound of a gunshot on the evening of May, 7, 2018, and found her toddler son suffering from a gunshot wound to the head, reported Richmond Times-Dispatch.

She had dozed off after taking a friend's prescription medication, leaving Demetrius without supervision for two to three hours, police said.

Tiara told police that the Glock .40-caliber semiautomatic pistol had been stored in a shoebox on a shelf that she had previously seen her son access by climbing on top of a container, Henrico Deputy Commonwealth's Attorney Toni Randall said.

Police later learned the gun, which Jefferson told authorities was a family heirloom, had been reported stolen in 2017.

An emotional vigil was held days later to honor Demetrius Jefferson's life (pictured)

Demetrius Jefferson was remembered by his family as a happy child who loved superheros and giving kisses and hugs

In the days after her son's death, Jefferson told reporters. 'I never thought something like this would ever...I'm still struck.'

Family members remembered Demetrius as a happy toddler who loved superheros, especially Iron Man and Hulk, and giving kisses and hugs to everyone, according to the station WTVR.

Jefferson was indicted in September 2018 on counts of felony murder and child neglect after police inconsistencies in her account of what happened on the day of the shooting.

Jefferson faces up to 10 years in prison when she is sentenced on March 10.