A masked thief smashed a mother's windscreen while she had her child in the car after she caught a gang breaking into a van.

Christina Adey had been doing the morning school run in Skellow near Doncaster, Yorkshire, when she interrupted the vehicle raid and began recording.

In the footage, a black Ford Mondeo has stopped in the middle of the street with its doors open.

Two men, one wearing a high-visibility jacket with his hood up and the other in a grey tracksuit with a baseball cap, are both loading the car with goods.

Ms Adey, who is a childminder, had five children in the car with her at the time and one can be heard coughing in the background over the sound of the radio.

The thieves continue to move furtively before the clip cuts to the car as it begins to pull away when it becomes clear they are stealing from the silver van that has been parked on the side of the road.

Christina Adey interrupted a vehicle raid in Skellow near Doncaster, Yorkshire, as a black Ford Mondeo stopped in the middle of the street with its doors open

The thief in the baseball cap hauls one final piece of equipment out of the van and into the car as Ms Adey beeps her horn repeatedly in an attempt to scare them away.

But suddenly the man turns and launches a trolley toward her vehicle.

It collides with the windscreen with a thud which causes it to smash and the video ends shortly after.

The mother-of-three took to social media a short time later to share the footage.

She posted it on Facebook alongside the caption: 'Make sure your doors are locked, not only on your house but your car and vans too.

'On my way to do the school run at 11.32am this morning, I was unable to get down the road as these two men were busy robbing someone's van.

'As soon as they saw I knew what they were doing they threw a metal trolley at my windscreen.

'If anyone knows who these men are, any information would be very, very appreciated.'

The thief in the baseball cap hauls one final piece of equipment out of the van and into the car as Ms Adey beeps her horn repeatedly. But suddenly he turns and launches a trolley toward her vehicle

It collides with the windscreen with a thud which causes it to smash and the video ends shortly after

A spokesman for South Yorkshire Police said: 'Police were called at around 11.30am on December 19 following reports of an incident on Howden Avenue, Skellow.

'It is reported that a motorist driving along the road came across some suspicious activity as tools were being removed from a parked van.

'The motorist is reported to have sounded her horn, which led to the suspected thieves throwing a metal trolley at her vehicle, causing her windscreen to smash.

'There were no reports of injuries. Enquiries are ongoing.'

Police also confirmed that the same car was allegedly involved in another van burglary less than a mile away that took place around the same time.

The spokesman added: 'Police were called to Elm Road, Skellow, just before 11.30am on December 19 following reports a van had been broken into.

'It is reported a large bag of tools was stolen by three men who were travelling in a black Ford Mondeo.

'Investigations are ongoing into these incidents and anyone with information is asked to contact 101 quoting incident number 309 of 19 December.'