She is a regular fixture on the London party scene.

And Kimberley Garner turned heads as she enjoyed a girls' night out at Annabel's private members' club in Mayfair on Thursday.

The former Made In Chelsea star, 28, put on a leggy display in a tiny LBD as she climbed into a taxi after enjoying a Christmas evening out with a group of friends and her mother Geraldine.

It's party time! Kimberley Garner turned heads as she enjoyed a girls' night out at Annabel's private members' club in London's Mayfair on Thursday

Homeward bound: The former Made In Chelsea star, 28, put on a leggy display in a tiny LBD as she climbed into a taxi after enjoying a Christmas evening out with a group of friends

The TV personality cut a fashionable figure in her form-fitting dress, which boasted sparkling silver buttons on the front and cuffs.

Kimberley drew attention to her toned legs in a pair black tights and added height to her frame with simple pointed-toe heels.

The blonde beauty completed her look by toting a small handbag and opted for low-key hair and makeup.

Sharing an insight to her evening on Instagram, Kimberley revealed that she was having a festive night out with friends and family.

Leggy lady: The TV personality cut a fashionable figure in her form-fitting dress, which boasted sparkling silver buttons on the front and cuffs

Dressed to impress: Kimberley drew attention to her toned legs in a pair black tights and added height to her frame with simple pointed-toe heels

Family and friends: Kimberley posed with a group of pals and her mother Geraldine during the fun evening out celebrating Christmas

The swimwear designer could not contain her glee as she posed with pals Grace and Sophie Devlin and her mother in a short video.

Kimberley splits her time between London and Miami after purchasing a dream home in the Floridian coastal city in December 2018.

Speaking to MailOnline about her home, she explained: 'I worked very hard last year and had even moved home for a few months to save money.

'I really had my head down working to concentrate on goals, but achieved it on New Year’s Eve, praise God, and flew over here. Completed the sale on the plane over.'

Stunning: The blonde beauty completed her look by toting a small handbag and opted for low-key hair and makeup

Toned: Kimberley looked sensational in her mini dress which skimmed her gym-honed pins

Heading home: The star, far right, and her pals all piled into a cab at the end of the night

Reflecting on her property empire, the designer admitted it is a world away from the hustle and bustle of her busy life in London.

'It's right on the beach, and really is a dream come true,' she explained.

'I am over doing the interior design, going for a beachy chilled vibe for the place.

'I won't be moving there [permanently], as London is one hundred percent home, but really overjoyed and proud to have achieved it.'