Elyse Villani's dominance for Australia A has kept the heat on the national selectors just months out from the Twenty20 World Cup on home soil.

The big-hitting Victorian capped a brilliant campaign on the Gold Coast with a 54-ball 70 as the hosts easily beat India A to seal a 3-0 series whitewash.

The Victorian made an unbeaten 62 off 36 in a nine-wicket win to open the series, before setting up the 22-run victory on Monday.

Villani, now 30, has played three Tests, 34 ODIs and 62 T20s for Australia.

But it has been more than a year since her last T20 International, with the year-end A series a timely reminder of her talents ahead of February's home World Cup.

How she squeezes back into a side that dominated all summer is a question coach Leah Poulton admits selectors will be forced to mull over in coming weeks.

"I wouldn't like to be on the panel," she told AAP.

"Their batting has been so strong but she can't do much more than that and it's not just Elyse; I would think she's one of maybe 10 players not in the team they need to talk about.

"Elyse is such a professional athlete, a real leader and someone the girls have all looked up to on this tour."

Brisbane all-rounder Sammy-Jo Johnson was another standout across the series, crushing an unbeaten 48 off 24 in the opening game before cameos with bat and ball saw her win player of the match in the second clash.

That followed another impressive WBBL campaign with the victors - hitting four sixes in one over to swing the final in the Heat's favour - while Johnson also turned heads on a mid-year tour of England with the A squad.

"Not just on the Gold Coast, Sammy-Jo was outstanding over there ... the depth we have now is just a testament to the work put into the WBBL and domestic set-up in the last five years," Poulton said.

Australia A also won a three-game 50-over series 2-1 in Brisbane earlier in the month.

Contenders still have a handful of chances to impress ahead of the World Cup when domestic one-day fixtures resume on January 6.