Billie Eilish took a partial ride to work with James Corden on Thursday during a Carpool Karaoke segment on The Late Late Show on CBS.

The 18-year-old singer climbed into a car with James, 41, to help him get to work as he returned from an absence to host the final episode of the year.

'Thanks so much, traffic today is terrible,' James said as Billie got in the passenger seat and buckled up.

Partial ride: Billie Eilish gave James Corden a partial ride to work on Thursday during a Carpool Karaoke segment on The Late Late Show on CBS

'My pleasure, of course,' said the Los Angeles native as she took off her sunglasses.

James cranked up the music and they both sang her hit song Bad Guy that reached number one on the US Billboard Hot 100, as well as 10 other countries.

Billie rocketed to fame after her debut album When We All Fall Asleep, Where Do We Go? was released in May and James asked if she was shocked by meeting any particular fan.

She named Billy Joel Armstrong of Green Day and Justin Bieber.

Carpool lane: The 18-year-old singer climbed into a car with James, 41, to help him get to work as he returned from an absence to host the final episode of the year

James and Billie then sang her song Ocean Eyes together in the car.

'This song gave me life,' Billie said.

The singer who is up for six Grammy Awards revealed that she recorded the song at age 13 with her brother Finneas O'Connell, 22.

He's back: James was back for the last episode of the year after guest hosts filled in for him recently

Pop superstar: Mariah Carey wore a black and red dress before her performance

'This song makes me emotional,' she said, leaning back in her seat to belt it out.

She told James about recording in her brother's 'little bedroom' and invited him over to her family's house.

James was shown her 'very red' bedroom and her brother's room where they recorded.

Teen talent: The 18-year-old singer has been nominated for six Grammy Awards

Good times: Billie leaned her seat back and sang with James

She freaked out James by putting her pet spider on his hand and leaving the room.

Her mother Maggie Baird, 60, said Billie would ask for a 'burrito' or 'grilled cheese sandwich' and she would listen to whatever they recorded.

'The whole experience is so crazy,' Maggie said.

Home visit: The singer invited James to her family's home and showed him her pet spider

Freaked out: James freaked out when he was left alone with the spider

Tight family: Maggie Baird told James about experiencing Billie's music success

'I need to join the family somehow,' James quipped as he told Billie he could get himself the rest of the way to work.

The show also featured a skit featuring James and his castmates from the musical fantasy film Cats based on the stage musical by English composer Andrew Lloyd Webber, 71.

The film's director Tom Hooper, 47, welcomed stars Jennifer Hudson, Taylor Swift, Jason Derulo, Rebel Wilson and Francesca Hayward to a Cat School lead by head cat James.

Cat school: The show also featured a skit featuring James and his castmates from the musical fantasy film Cats based on the stage musical by English composer Andrew Lloyd Webber, 71.

Film stars: Jennifer Hudson, Jason Derulo, Rebel Wilson, Taylor Swift and Francesca Hayward took part in the skit

James was a stickler for method acting during the class in which they wore pajama-like cat outfits.

He asked for their best 'meow' and Rebel refused to follow his command.

'You see, cats do ignore you. That's very good,' James said.

Method acting: The women drank milk from a large bowl to get into character

Taylor when asked for her best 'meow' then delivered an eerily real cat vocalization.

Jennifer was presented with the Best In Show award by Andrew.

The show ended with Mariah Carey, 49, performing her holiday classic All I Want For Christmas Is You.

Best meow: Taylor when asked for her best 'meow' delivered an eerily real cat vocalization

Top honor: Andrew presented the Best In Show award

The winner: Jennifer who plays Grizabella was named Best In Show

The pop diva superstar delivered a spirited rendition of the song as fake snow fell from up above.

'I won't even wish for snow, All I want for Christmas is you,' Mariah repeated while blowing kisses to the studio audience.

All I Want For Christmas this week reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100 chart for the first time, 25 years after its original release.

Big finish: The show ended with Mariah Carey, 49, performing her holiday classic All I Want For Christmas Is You