Senator Lindsey Graham, one of Donald Trump's staunch Republican allies, has criticized the President for implying the late Democratic congressman John Dingell is in hell.

Trump made the comments on Wednesday night at his Michigan campaign rally after the House voted to impeach him.

He said that Dingell, a devout Catholic, had been condemned to hell by saying he was 'looking up' rather than looking down on those still living.

Senator Lindsey Graham (pictured) has criticized the President for implying the late Democratic congressman John Dingell is in hell

Trump said that Dingell (pictured), a devout Catholic, had been condemned to hell by saying he was 'looking up' rather than looking down on those still living

Trump made the remarks after Dingell's wife Debbie voted in favor of two articles of impeachment.

But according to the New York Post, Graham took issue with Trump's comments, telling Fox News's Bret Baier: 'Well, number one, this joke is not funny.

'I like the president. I think his sense of humor doesn't play well here.'

Dingell, the longest-serving member of Congress, died in February aged 92 after representing his House district outside Detroit for 59 years.

After his death, Trump said he gave the family the 'A-plus treatment' with a memorial and funeral service honors for Dingell.

But Graham said: 'When it came to John Dingell, he made sure he was honored appropriately. He did admire John Dingell's service. But this joke he made last night, he's made it several times, it's just not funny.'

Trump made the remarks after Dingell's wife Debbie voted in favor of two articles of impeachment

Debbie criticized the President's remarks on Twitter saying he has made her healing 'much harder'

John Dingell's wife Debbie also criticized the President's jokes in an emotion post on Twitter.

She said: 'Mr President, let's set politics aside. My husband earned all his accolades after a lifetime of service.

'I'm preparing for the first holiday season without the man I love. You brought me down in a way you can never imagine and your hurtful words just made my healing much harder.'

White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham said after Trump's controversial comments that he was 'just riffing' and he was 'counter-punching' after being impeached.