They welcomed their first child together a baby boy called Slash Electric Alexander Edwards in October.

And Amber Rose and her partner Alexander 'AE' Edwards looked more loved-up than ever as they packed on the PDA during a romantic dinner at Avra in Beverly Hills, Los Angeles, on Thursday night.

The model, 36, and music producer, 33, couldn't resist sharing several tender kisses as they walked hand-in-hand.

Smitten: Amber Rose and her partner Alexander 'AE' Edwards looked more loved-up than ever as they packed on the PDA during a romantic dinner at Avra in Beverly Hills, Los Angeles, on Thursday night

Amber and Alexander appeared in good spirits as they beamed to photographers outside seafood restaurant Avra.

The model showed off her incredible figure just three weeks after undergoing full-body liposuction after giving birth to her second child in October.

Amber showed off the results of her surgery in figure-hugging black and red patterned leggings with a matching long-sleeved top.

Loved-up: The model, 36, and music producer, 33, couldn't resist sharing several tender kisses as they walked hand-in-hand

Happy: Amber and Alexander appeared in good spirits as they beamed to photographers outside seafood restaurant Avra

She added a pair of black sliders, a patent crocodile patterned handbag and a baseball cap to her look.

The star looked radiant as she added a slick of glowing make-up and a pair of diamond stud earrings.

Amber's partner Alexander rocked his signature neon green hair and a black sweatsuit with white trainers.

Sensational: The model showed off her incredible figure just three weeks after undergoing full-body liposuction after giving birth to her second child in October

In October, Amber let fans know that she was undergoing liposuction just weeks after giving birth to her baby.

'I'm about to get my whole body done after the baby,' she said in a video on Instagram.

'[The surgeon is] gonna suck all the baby fat out of my stomach.'

Details: She added a pair of black sliders, a patent crocodile patterned handbag and a baseball cap to her look

She showed herself in a hospital gown with markings along her jaw that she said her doctor was gong to 'fix.'

The mother-of-two went on to say that she was 'super excited' for the procedure before telling her fans that she loves them.

'Wish me luck, bye,' she said before getting wheeled into surgery.