Constance Hall has revealed that she is encouraging her children to forgo Christmas gifts and donate to charity instead.

In a column for MamaMia, the 36-year-old insisted: 'Some people think I'm taking the magic out of Christmas by asking my kids: "Do you want two presents or do you want one and to be able to help someone in need with the money we save?"

She added: 'But I disagree. The kids won't remember the plastic crap you bought them, they remember the grandma who drove four hours south just to see them.'

'The kids won't remember the plastic crap you bought them': Mother-of-seven Constance Hall (pictured centre) revealed on Friday that she encourages her children to give up their Christmas gifts and donate to charity instead

The mother-of-seven says that some of her children are more than happy with the idea.

'When one of my kids agrees they would be happy with one smaller present so we can donate the funds to help someone else's Christmas... therein lies the Magic of Christmas,' she writes.

The blogger is mum and step-mum to seven children: Sunny, 17, Zeyke, 14, Billie-Violet, 10, Arlo, 7, twins Rumi and Snow, 4, and Raja, 1.

She married Denim Cooke in early 2018.

In a column for MamaMia, the 36-year-old insisted: 'Some people think I'm taking the magic out of Christmas by asking my kids: 'Do you want two presents or do you want one and to be able to help someone in need with the money we save?'

She added: 'But I disagree. The kids won't remember the plastic crap you bought them, they remember the grandma who drove four hours south just to see them'

The feminist author recently said the 'bogans' who don't like her outspoken blogs shouldn't waste their time reading them.

She said that women should 'rule the world' during a sit-down interview about her polarising social media presence with 60 Minutes.

'I think it's probably one of the main reasons that everyone hates me, because the following got so big,' she said.

Happy days! 'When one of my kids agrees they would be happy with one smaller present so we can donate the funds to help someone else's Christmas... therein lies the Magic of Christmas,' she writes

While Constance suffered at the hands of her online abuse, she decided her content didn't need to be tailored for the benefit of her haters.

'Everyone, f*** off,' she thought. 'I'm just going to write and if you don't like it, don't read it.'

She added: 'If you're upset because you're a five foot bogan that didn't make it, well f***ing make it.'