The summer holidays have kicked in for Martha Kalifatidis and her boyfriend Michael Brunelli.

The pair took to Instagram on Friday to share a photo in which they are enjoying some sun in the backyard.

The 31-year-old Martha goes topless in the snap, with a glass of champagne hiding her bust.

'This is what your teachers did on holidays': MAFS' Martha Kalifatidis (right) sunbathed topless alongside boyfriend Michael Brunelli (left) on Friday and shared a snap to Instagram

She showed off her figure in a pair of skimpy bikini bottoms and covered up her famous face with a pair of sunglasses.

Beside her, Michael, 28, showed off his muscles as he leaned back in board shorts holding a bottle of bubbly.

Michael, who is a P.E. teacher, captioned the photo: 'This is what your teachers did on holidays'.

The pair seemed relaxed and happy together despite a recent row that almost split them up.

Michael captioned the photo: 'This is what your teachers did on holidays'

All okay! The pair seemed relaxed and happy together despite a recent row that almost split them up

Martha kicked boyfriend Michael out of her parents' $1 million home in Melbourne on Wednesday night following a fight.

The star said the couple were on the brink of a break-up, screaming at him for spoiling the ending of a television program, Vikings, she was watching.

'Me and Michael are about to break up because he just ruined the show I have been watching for months,' Martha began in her lengthy rant.

Drama! Martha kicked boyfriend Michael out of her parents' $1 million home in Melbourne on Wednesday night following a fight. The star said the couple were on the brink of a break-up, screaming at him for spoiling the ending of a television program, Vikings, she was watching

The argument did not end there, with Martha then asking Michael to leave.

'Okay, so I kicked him out for ruining my show - and now he's pretending that his car won't start so he can stay here,' she said, as Michael attempted to fix his car.

The brunette bombshell concluded in utmost frustration: 'Put a fork in me, I'm done.'

Martha and Michael met while filming Married At First Sight's sixth season in 2018.