For newly single parents, life often doesn't bear much resemblance to a picture perfect Christmas card.

Many feel lost at this time of year, and it can be hard to feel the joys of the festive season when there's a confrontation with an angry ex looming.

Spending the Christmas period alone without your children is at best challenging - and at worst, agonising.

But there are ways to ease the burden and make the best of a bad situation.

Here Dr Rosie Gilderthorp, a Plymouth-based online clinical psychologist helping parents going through tough times, shares five tips with FEMAIL on how to survive Christmas as a separated parent.

For newly single parents, life often doesn't bear much resemblance to a picture perfect Christmas card - but there are some things you can do to ease the burden (stock image)

Who gets the kids?

Possibly the most difficult conversation any separated parent faces is who 'gets' the kids on Christmas morning.

Dr Rosie explained: 'It is easy to place a lot of significance on December 25th thanks to the pressure we have for the perfect Christmas, and it may feel like you need to fight hard to have the big day with the kids.

'But, if you lose the battle, you can make the magic happen twice. Every child loves the idea of two Christmases. You could even give your special day a new name which they can get excited about each year.'

Make your time alone count

The temptation may be to spend alone time lost in an abyss of Toblerone and gin, but Dr Rosie encourages you to consider what kind of parent (and person) you want to be in 2020.

'Unfortunately, over-indulgence can leave us bloated, depressed and ashamed,' she observed.

'You don't deserve to feel like that! Think about how you can spend time being the person you want to be. This could mean volunteering, exercising, visiting an elderly relative or rekindling an old project.

'You should be proud to tell people how you spent your day. If you wallow in self-pity, your kids will know and they will worry. They are much more tuned into you than you realise.

'If they speak to you on the phone and you are having a good day, they will feel free to enjoy their own day.'

Presence over presents

'Your mind may try to tell you it will all be OK so long as you can buy the kids the tech they want or make your house look like Santa's grotto,' Dr Rosie warned.

Clinical psychologist Dr Rosie Gilderthorp specialises in helping parents going through tough times

'What your children really need from you is support dealing with their feelings.

'Unfortunately, when we are stressed our minds are constantly scanning for danger and worrying about the worst case scenario.

'We're distracted, and this makes it hard to be present with our kids. Mindfulness helps us come back into the moment so we can engage with them, help them through the tough times and enjoy the happy moments.'

Mindfulness doesn't have to be complicated, she added. Take time to smell your Christmas tree, notice the beauty of a bauble and listen to your favourite Christmas tune.

'The key is to pick something, notice it and re-focus your mind on it whenever it wanders - which it will!' she said.

Adjust your oxygen mask first

'If you want to help your kids have a good Christmas after a split, it's crucial that you look after yourself,' said Dr Rosie.

'Otherwise, if faced with an outrageous demand from your ex or some "boundary testing" behaviour from your kids, you are far more likely to go into fight or flight mode and say or do something you may later regret.

'Learn to centre yourself in the present moment any time you are upset, angry or stressed this Christmas. Check in with your body and mind, notice what you are thinking and feeling, and then focus your attention on your breathing for 10 breaths.

'Doing this will allow you to step back enough to deal with the problem.'

Dr Rosie added that is is vital to make sure you have some support over the festive period.

'Humans are pack animals and we all feel stressed if there isn't someone looking out for us,' she explained. 'It doesn't have to be in person - the parents in my Facebook group find online support just as valuable.'

Dr Rosie urges newly single parents not to wallow in self-pity over the holiday period but to consider what kind of parent and person they want to be in the New Year and make the most of their time alone (stock image)

Keep the traditions you treasure

'Humans thrive on routine and kids' developing brains use it to help them make sense of the world,' Dr Rosie explained.

'Obviously, there will be big changes, but if there are traditions you can salvage then do.

'If not, then let your kids help you come up with new ones so they can see that there is life after a split.'

If you want to give yourself and your kids a positive Christmas after a separation, Dr Rosie Gilderthorp's ebook 'Surviving your first Christmas as a Separated parent' is available to buy from www.mindbodyandbaby.net.