The UK automotive industry took another heavy blow in November with production outputs of new cars down 16.5 per cent in the month.

The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders (SMMT) blamed planned factory closures around Halloween, which had been put in place to mitigate against disruption caused from the potential departure of the UK from the EU without a deal on October 31.

Outputs for the home market shrunk by a quarter while export demand - which makes up eight in ten of all UK cars built - dipped by 14 per cent.

Production slump: UK car factories produced some 21,000 fewer new vehicles in November as Britain's automotive sector continues to feel the brunt of declining demand

In total, vehicle manufacturing plants across Britain produced 107,753 units last month.

That was down from 129,030 in November 2018, some 21,277 fewer cars coming off assembly lines.

This is partly due to factory shutdowns instigated by manufacturers in preparation for potential component delays if Brexit were to have taken place at the end of October.

These stoppages were in addition to those in April, when car production fell 44.5 per cent, and add to the list of costly Brexit contingency measures implemented by the automotive sector - a bill that stands at more than £500 million, the SMMT claims.

However, industry bosses also attributed trends seen throughout the year - including soft consumer and business confidence, weak demand in overseas markets and model production changes - to the latest dip in manufacturing.

In November, output for both home and overseas markets fell, 26.6 per cent and 14.2 per cent respectively, and UK car production has now fallen in 17 of the last 18 months.

Last month, output for both home and overseas markets fell, 26.6% and 14.2% respectively

Over the course of the 11 months of 2019, new car outputs are now down by 14.5 per cent to 1,231,679 units.

The vast majority (80.8 per cent) of these units have been created for overseas markets, with 54.7 per cent ordered by EU nations.

Mike Hawes, chief executive at the SMMT, has for months been beating the drum for Brexit negotiations to include tariff-free trade deals between the UK and the European Union once the departure is finalised.

He echoed those sentiments again today, stating that the EU is 'still by far UK Automotive’s largest trading partner'.

UK car production has now fallen in 17 of the last 18 months, the SMMT confirmed

In a statement made regarding the November manufacturing figures, he said: 'UK car production is export-led, so we look forward to working with the new government to deliver an ambitious trade deal with the EU.

'To ensure our competitiveness at a time of dramatic technological change, that deal needs to be tariff free and avoid barriers to trade, which, for automotive, means that our standards must be aligned.

'This can be achieved if government and industry work in partnership to re-establish the UK as a great place to invest and ensure that automotive keeps delivering for Britain.'

Over the course of the 11 months of 2019, new car outputs are now down by 14.5 per cent to 1,231,679 units

Stuart Apperley, director and head of UK automotive at Lloyds Bank Commercial Banking, said carmakers will now be hoping for a turnaround in fortunes in 2020 having endured a difficult period of slipping demand.

'As January’s departure from the EU draws nearer, carmakers must think strategically about how to ensure the UK remains a good place to invest,' he explained.

'It could do this by strengthening its tie to universities to make sure it has the strongest possible talent pool to choose from or increasing its commitment to research and development facilities. It will also be hoping for a trade deal with the EU that ensures friction-free trade is maintained.'

Apperley said the sector would be pinning hopes on growing demand for plug-in vehicles to give UK manufacturing a welcome boost.

'The industry will also be doing all it can to drive sales of electric vehicles in 2020 and beyond, with take-up still well below the levels it would like,' he added.

'Plugging into the continuing strong demand from consumers for SUVs by tailoring the range of options available and making practical improvements will help this along, but for some in the supply chain this will require wholesale changes to business models and that will need significant investment.'