Scotty Hopson has helped soften the departure of New Zealand Breakers star Corey Webster with an athletic performance in a 90-84 NBL home win over South East Melbourne Phoenix.

American swingman Hopson was the game's standout figure in Christchurch on Friday, dominating the two middle quarters to finish with 24 points and nine rebounds.

The Breakers' slim hopes of reaching the finals took a giant blow midweek when they released prolific New Zealand guard Webster to a lucrative club deal in China.

Hopson filled the void superbly, finding mismatches with ease because of his height and athleticism.

His purple patch came during a 10-minute period either side of halftime when the hosts turned a five-point deficit into a 17-point lead.

Hopson hoped the Breakers performance answered critics who believe Webster's release was effectively raising the white flag on their season.

"We're a tight-knit group. We've been fighting together every day. We're pushing each other and we want to have success," he told Sky Sport NZ.

"We've lost Corey Webster, who's a really good player, but we've got to stick together as a team. We have to battle back, we've got a long road ahead of us, but we've just got to get one (win) at a time."

The Breakers' advantage was reduced to four points in the final minute but the Phoenix failed to produce the necessary big plays on a night when some key players were off their game.

That could't be said of league leading scorer Mitch Creek, who matched Hopson's 24 points and was more accurate from the field.

Dane Pineau pulled down nine rebounds for South East Melbourne but fellow-starters John Roberson and Tai Wesley had quiet nights, the latter hampered by early foul issues.

The Breakers' trio of Americans impressed. Brandon Ashley blended 13 points with eight rebounds while Sek Henry scored 17 and hounded Roberson defensively.

Both teams remained cemented on the table, with the Breakers (5-10) eighth after their first win outside Auckland this season, and the Phoenix (7-8) still fifth, one win behind the fourth-placed Adelaide.

Big-dunking forward Ashley said the finals were still in the sights of the Kiwi club.

"Man for man, I think we're one of the more talented teams in the league. When we put it together, I definitely think we have a chance to go on a nice run."