Looking to bag a last minute Christmas present? Well you may want to head to Amazon where the mega retailer is offering huge discounts on kids toys ahead of the festive season.

Until Sunday December 22, Amazon is offering shoppers the opportunity to discover great gift ideas for less in their Last Minute Christmas Deals event.

Better yet, if you're a Prime Member, the last day for one-day delivery is Monday December 23 – so there's still time to shop for presents before Christmas Day.

Ahead, discover massive savings with these last minute Christmas deals.

Encourage your little one to unleash their creative side and let their imagination run wild with a Creativity for Kids Fashion craft kit. With this kit they'll be able to create ten head-turning headbands – it's sure to keep the little angels happy on Christmas Day.

Inside the kit there's a rainbow array of satin headbands, rhinestones, flowers, feathers, a butterfly and lots of ribbon to choose from.

This hands-on kit is the number one bestseller in Kids' Tie-Dye & Fashion Craft Kits on Amazon and today you can snap it up for half price.

Buy now on Amazon

The number one bestselling and Amazon exclusive L.O.L. Surprise! Bigger Surprise Winter Disco with Exclusive O.M.G. Doll is now 47 per cent off the listed retail price (RRP £89.99).

The L.O.L Surprise! Winter Disco Bigger Surprise makes a fantastic gift for a little one this Christmas and has received an average star rating of 4.7 out of five from happy Amazon shoppers.

This set contains over 60 never-before-seen surprises, including a limited edition exclusive Family (you can't find it anywhere else). This is the biggest discount we've seen on the popular kid's toy – even larger than Black Friday.

Buy now on Amazon

Save £30 on the all-new Fire 7 Kids Edition Tablet. With a kid-proof case, parental controls and a two-year worry-free guarantee, you can be reassured this tablet is designed for children.

The seven-inch tablet also keeps children entertained with a free one year of Fire for Kids Unlimited, giving the user access to child-friendly apps, games and videos.

Using Amazon parent Dashboard, parents can set time limits like bedtime curfews plus create educational goals remotely from their smartphone.

The Fire 7 Kids Edition has 16 GB of storage and up to seven hours of battery life. It's ideal for keeping little ones occupied during long journeys on board a plane, train or on car.

Buy now on Amazon

Families will get on board with Colourbrain: The Ultimate Family Board Game for Kids and Adults. This popular board game has been reduced by 26 per cent and will bring everyone together for a fun afternoon this Christmas.

All you have to do is work out which of the 11 Colour Cards in your hand correctly answers one of Colour Brain's crafty questions. Get it right and you could be in luck. Now you need the other teams to get it wrong to walk off with the points - while they turn green with envy.

If you want to take advantage of this saving you'll need to be quick, as Amazon Lightning Deals don't last long.

Buy now on Amazon

This bestselling supersized game has been specially designed for the whole family to enjoy.

Hand-crafted using New Zealand pine from sustainable sources, the Giant Magnum Tumble Tower can be built to over three feet tall for that ultimate Magnum Tumble Tower experience.

This Jaques of London Giant Magnum Tumble Tower is now better-than-half-price in Amazon's Last Minute Christmas Deals event and comes with a canvas carry bag to neatly store the blocks away, ready for your next Magnum Tumble Tower experience.

Buy now on Amazon

Amazon subscription deals Amazon Music Unlimited 4 months, now £0.99 (was £9.99 pm) Amazon is giving UK music lovers the chance to stream four months of Amazon Music Unlimited service for under one pound (that’s a saving of nearly £39). You don't need to be a Prime member to take advantage of this amazing deal, but this trial promotion is only available for new subscribers. Offer valid till January 6th 2020. View offer Premier League live on Prime Video 20 Premier League games will be live and exclusive on Prime Video this December. For the first time ever in the UK all games on the 26 and 27 December will be shown. Existing Amazon Prime customers will be able to access these Premier League fixtures for free. Start your 30 day free trial now (£7.99 pm after trial period). View offer

Check out our discount section for Christmas deals and offers.

MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.