Farrah Abraham took to Instagram on Thursday to share a new enhanced butt injection she's getting that will last five years.

The 28 year old reality star paid a visit to Las Vegas cosmetic injector Heather Rohrer, getting a butt injection in a new video that she claims will last for five years.

'SKINNY GIRL PROBLEMS NO MORE @aestheticmedicine_lv #Artificialfatinjections #Skinnygirlproblems no more! @aestheticmedicine_lv has a 5 year #artificialfatinjection for the girls who can’t gain weight or do not want a major surgery!' she said in her Instagram post, plus the hashtags #lasvegas #injections #skinnygirl #buttinjections #fat #booty #medspa #aestheticmedicine_lv

Injection: Farrah Abraham took to Instagram on Thursday to share a new enhanced butt injection she's getting that will last five years

In the video, Abraham, clad in a lacy neon green one-piece thong bathing suit, alongside 'Doctor Heather,' where they spoke about the treatment.

'Doctor Heather here has a trick that is better than any booty injection that I've had,' Abraham says.

The injection in question is called Renuva, which Doctor Heather says gives you a 'nice, tight round' butt that enhances, 'what you already had.'

Treatment: In the video, Abraham, clad in a lacy neon green one-piece thong bathing suit, alongside 'Doctor Heather,' where they spoke about the treatment.

The doctor adds that the injection, 'makes the body make its own fat and actually creates some blood vessels as well,' before administering the injection.

Abraham lays down as Doctor Heather draws lines on her butt, stating the injection will, 'give her more volume in the upper area' plus a, 'nice smooth outer hip area.'

Doctor Heather described Renuva as, 'freeze-dried fat which we can inject and it's going to regenerate her own fat and her own blood vessels which is going to make it look very useful and plump.'

Injection: The doctor adds that the injection, 'makes the body make its own fat and actually creates some blood vessels as well,' before administering the injection

The doctor is seen administering a number of shots into her buttocks, before Abraham asks her how long they last.

'These Renuva injections, it's over five years, so we're considering this to be a permanent injection,' Doctor Heather said.

Abraham added that was, 'amazing, because my other injections normally last around two years, I've had injections last about three to four years, so I'm super happy that Renuva, this new product, is lasting five years!'

Long lasting: The doctor is seen administering a number of shots into her buttocks, before Abraham asks her how long they last

Permanent: 'These Renuva injections, it's over five years, so we're considering this to be a permanent injection,' Doctor Heather said

As Doctor Heather got ready to inject the other cheek, both her and Abraham added that the freeze-dried fat they're injecting actually comes from humans, not cows.

'It's actually human-donated fat that has been stripped of all its DNA, all live cells, everything that people are worried about,' Doctor Heather said.

Doctor Heather added that Renuva is FDA approved, which tells her, 'it's safe to inject' and people will, 'have no reactions.'

Humans: As Doctor Heather got ready to inject the other cheek, both her and Abraham added that the freeze-dried fat they're injecting actually comes from humans, not cows