A second man has been arrested in connection to a woman found dead inside a £500,000 house in a quiet village cul de sac in Rotherfield.

In the early hours of this morning, a 37-year-old man, was arrested on suspicion of murder.

Another suspect, a 35-year-old man, has also been arrested as part of a 'fast moving investigation'.

The two men arrested, both from Crawley, remain in custody.

The body of a woman, named locally as Nelly, was discovered in a property in Court Meadow Close, Rotherfield, on Wednesday evening.

The victim was today identified by neighbours as mother of two Nelly Myers, 58, who is believed to be a former British Airways hostess.

The woman in her 50s was discovered at the property (pictured) in Court Meadow Close, Rotherfield, near Crowborough

Detective Chief Inspector Alex Geldart, from the Surrey and Sussex Major Crime Team, said: 'We have arrested a second man in connection with the murder of a woman. Both men we have arrested remain in custody at this time while the investigation continues.

'We are extremely grateful to everyone who has contacted us with information and appreciate the patience from the local community during this time. We believe this to be an isolated incident and there are still a number of ongoing enquiries.

'This will be, understandably, an extremely difficult time for the family and friends and our specialist officers continue to provide support. We would ask their privacy is respected during this tragic time and for social media speculation to be avoided.'

Anyone with information which could assist the investigation should report online or call 101 quoting Operation Coppice.

The victim's body was discovered at the property in Court Meadow Close, in the village of Rotherfield, near Crowborough, East Sussex.

Christmas decorations can be seen in the front windows of the property (pictured) and lining the windows of the conservatory to the side

Sussex Police were called to the address following concerns for the welfare of the woman, the force said.

Flowers have been left at the scene by well-wishers and one message said: 'Dearest Nelly, you will be greatly missed.'

Shocked neighbour Malcolm Sargent, 72, said: 'She was from Peru originally.

'She was an air hostess who worked at Gatwick for British Airways. She was separated from her husband.

'She was very friendly. She didn't mix too much but when she did she was very friendly.

'When she did chat she was a very happy woman. It's a quiet road.

'She lived there alone. She had two boys who used to live there they were brought up there. Her husband left about five years ago.

'It was their family home. She was so young. This has shocked us all. It is very, very sad.'

Police were conducting house to house enquiries in the cul-de-sac on a new-build estate this afternoon as they investigate the killing.

A blue tent has been put up in the front garden of the detached mock-Tudor three-bedroomed property on a new-build where the body was discovered by police.

The property was cordoned off by officers a police van and patrol car are parked outside.

One neighbour aged 21 who asked not to be named: 'She was a lovely woman. A really lovely woman.

'Whenever you'd see her you could always have a chat. She always had a lot of time for people.

Sussex Police were called to the address following concerns for the welfare of the woman, the force said

Detectives said they have arrested a 35-year-old man as part of a 'fast moving investigation.' Pictured: Court Meadow Close in Rotherfield, East Sussex

'I don't know what happened. The police got here Wednesday night. It's really weird.'

Another neighbour said: 'We've not lived here long but it's shocking. She was a lovely, lovely person.'

A light blue Ford Fiesta remains parked on the drive of the large detached home.

Christmas decorations can be seen in the front windows and lining the windows of the conservatory to the side.

Detective Chief Inspector Alex Geldart, Surrey and Sussex Major Crime Team, said: 'This is a tragic incident and my thoughts are with the family and friends of the victim at this difficult time.

'This is a fast moving and complex investigation still involving many lines of enquiry.

'We have spoken to a number of people in the local area as part of our investigation already but we are still urging anyone who heard or saw anything unusual or out of place over the last few days to make contact with us.

'There will be an enhanced police presence in the area for the foreseeable time while we continue our enquiries.'

Anyone with information is asked to call 101 quoting Operation Coppice or contact Crimestoppers anonymously.'