Jeff Van Der Korput turned 34 on Thursday.

He watched television, enjoyed a breakfast made by his wife and then used a homemade water tanker to defend his home from the Green Wattle Creek firestorm.

The 175,000-hectare blaze forced a mass evacuation on Thursday and destroyed up to 40 homes in semi-rural villages southwest of Sydney, including Buxton.

"Thirty-four is a really mundane number that I'll remember for the rest of my life I'm sure," Mr Van Der Korput told AAP on Friday.

"The wife cooked me a really lovely breakfast, said happy birthday, gave me a present and I sat down and watched some Rick and Morty with her.

"I took the day off because I was worried about the fire risk and by 11.30am there were emergency warnings and we were running around."

Using a homemade firefighting trailer with a 2000 litre petrol water pump he fought off a grass fire on his neighbour's property and saved a ringtail possum by putting it inside a hat.

"The RFS was tied up and I built (the water pump) two years ago because I was getting worried about how dry it was and we've had to use it," Mr Van Der Korput said.

The local was out again with the tanker on Friday as spotfires flared.

His beer - warm due to power outages - rested in a stubby holder on a nearby fence.

Within walking distance from his property is the site where two RFS members died on Thursday night when a tree fell onto their tanker.

"This morning I drove down on a quad bike to have a look and the truck was a wreck. It took them hours to get it out of there," Mr Van Der Korput said.

"It's very unsettling, it makes me not want to drive on this road.

"We're hearing creaking trees and crackling trees and trees are falling every half an hour or hour and it's a 100km/h zone."

At the Buxton RFS station on Friday volunteer Peter Lockerbie - who's been with the Bundanoon RFS for 10 years - says the tragic event left local crews "gutted".

"Everyone's sort of feeling it," Mr Lockerbie told AAP on Friday.

"Today with the fire activity not being nearly as intense as yesterday, it's allowed us to have a chat with each other about it and share our thoughts.

"It gives us time to reflect on what happened ... because tomorrow when things start off again we need to be on our A-game."

The Green Wattle Creek blaze - which has been burning for weeks - is still out of control.

"We've thrown so much at it and it just keeps spitting in our face," Mr Lockerbie said.

"There's a lot of tiredness around but we'll pull ourselves into line pretty quickly (and) the morale is just amazing."