The Prime Minister has hit back at activist Greta Thunberg after she claimed Australia is failing to recognise that climate change is responsible for bushfires.

The 16-year-old Swedish activist took to social media on Sunday to accuse the government of inaction on climate change.

'Not even catastrophes like these seem to bring any political action. How is this possible?' she tweeted.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison has hit back at climate activist Greta Thunberg (pictured) after she claimed bushfires were a result of climate change and the government was not recognising it

The tweet (pictured) took aim at leaders by saying everyone is still failing to 'make the connection between the climate crisis and increased extreme weather events'

'Because we still fail to make the connection between the climate crisis and increased extreme weather events and nature disasters like the #AustraliaFires

'That's what has to change. Now.'

However Prime Minister Scott Morrison rebuffed the Swedish schoolgirl.

'Australia and the Australian government will set our policies based on Australia's national interests, on what Australia needs to do. That's where I keep my focus,' Mr Morrison told a press conference on Monday.

'It's not for me to make commentaries on what those outside of Australia think that Australia should do. We'll do in Australia what we think is right for Australia. And that has always been my guiding principle.

'I'm not here to try to impress people overseas. I'm here to do the right job for Australians and put them first.'

Mr Morrison said he was consulting with state premiers and chief ministers. arrangements.

'Ministers that are responsible for the issues have already been meeting. They met just a couple of weeks ago,' the prime minister said in Mudgee, NSW.

'If there is a need to address things urgently and before that time, then there are existing processes to make that happen.'

But federal Opposition Leader Anthony Albanese questioned Mr Morrison's leadership, saying the COAG meeting - to discuss the development of a new national strategy for disaster preparedness and the appropriate funding by governments for emergency services - must be brought forward.

'We'll do in Australia what we think is right for Australia, and that has always been my guiding principle. I'm not here to try to impress people overseas,' Mr Morrison said

Asked about Labor's call for an earlier meeting, Mr Morrison left the door open saying, 'We might move it around a bit.'

The prime minister 'can do three things immediately, which is to bring forward the COAG meeting, meet the former fire chiefs, and do something now to provide support for those volunteer firefighters who have been in the field for such a long time,' Mr Albanese said in Sydney.

'This is a national issue that requires some form of national coordination and national leadership.'

While support, particularly for volunteer firefighters who've been in the fire grounds for months, was mainly a state issue, the federal government should be the coordinating body.

But Mr Morrison rejected this, saying he did not accept the proposition that COAG had to meet for things to get done because options and proposals for improving fire management were already being worked on.

'Our fire services are responding to this fire better than last time, and the next time it will be better still with the resources and the technology and the other things that we can put in place,' he said.

'So there's no need for knee-jerk responses.'