New Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle has revealed he was diagnosed with diabetes just days before the December 12 general election.

Sir Lindsay had been urged by his wife Catherine and other family members to see a doctor after he lost three stone in weight in recent months.

He said the diagnosis, most likely type 1 diabetes, was 'still a shock' but he has vowed that it will not stop him from serving in the chair in the Commons or as MP for Chorley.

He cited Theresa May, who also has type 1 diabetes, as an inspiration after she served as prime minister with the auto-immune condition.

He was nearly hospitalised after being diagnosed by a doctor in the Lancashire town, telling the BBC: 'To be honest I was off the Richter scale when I first went to A&E and they said ''look it looks like we are going to have to keep you in''.

'What I realised then was that this is serious. I’ve got to deal with it, and deal with it I will.'

Sir Lindsay Hoyle, pictured in the Commons this morning, has revealed he has been diagnosed with diabetes

Sir Lindsay said Theresa May, who has type 1 diabetes, was an inspiration to him. The two senior MPs are pictured shaking hands in the House of Commons on Tuesday

The fuller-figured Speaker pictured before his diabetes diagnosis earlier this year

HOW THERESA MAY'S DIABETES BATTLE INSPIRED SPEAKER Sir Lindsay cited Theresa May, who also has type 1 diabetes, as an inspiration after she served as prime minister with the auto-immune condition. Then prime minister Theresa May at the 2017 Lord Mayor's Banquet. The device on her arm monitors her blood sugar levels and avoids the need to prick her fingers Former Prime Minister decided to address gossip about her dramatic weight loss in an exclusive interview with the Mail On Sunday in 2013. Mrs May lost so much weight that the Commons gossip machine went into overdrive. Her dramatic change of appearance (she entered the House a size 14 and and fell to a size 10 by April that year) was attributed to a cynical self-makeover designed to topple David Cameron, Tory leader at the time. The then Home Secretary revealed her type 1 diagnosis after a comment from ex Labour MP Keith Vaz. He criticised Mrs May’s appearance, tweeting: ‘A bit worried about Home Secretary. She is looking a bit thin these days. A new diet or pressure of work?’ His remarks provoked cross-party condemnation. Ironically, although Vaz didn’t know about his fellow politician’s condition, he too suffers from diabetes.

Sir Lindsay, 62, was elected as the new Commons Speaker at the start of November after the incumbent, John Bercow, stepped down after a decade in the role.

First elected MP for Chorley in 1997, he has been Mr Bercow's most senior deputy – known by the formal title 'chairman of ways and means' – since 2010, when post-expenses scandal reforms saw the role elected by MPs rather than appointed by the Leader of the Commons.

But the Bolton Wanderers FC fan is no pushover, having memorably bellowed at one miscreant: 'The panto season is not for another nine months.'

He also scolded the SNP for singing Ode to Joy – the EU's anthem – during the vote to trigger Article 50.

Sir Lindsay was an immediate favourite for the role of Commons referee when Mr Bercow - with whom he had a strained relationship - announced he was stepping down after 10 years in the chair.

Following the terror attack on Parliament in March 2017 and the killing of PC Keith Palmer, Sir Lindsay won plaudits by taking responsibility for ramping up security provisions.

He was in the Commons chair at the time of the atrocity in which four people were killed and presided over the lockdown in Parliament.

Born in Adlington in Lancashire, where he still lives, he was elected for Labour on Chorley Borough Council where he became deputy leader and mayor during his near two-decade tenure.

Selected for the Chorley constituency, he won back the seat for the party after it had been in Tory hands for 18 years.

The son of MP Doug Hoyle, his cricket-addict father gave him his unconventional name after being particularly impressed with the showing of an Australian batsman during the Ashes tour of 1948.

There was heartbreak for the twice-married politician and his family when his daughter, Natalie Lewis-Hoyle, was found dead in her bedroom just before Christmas 2017.

Sir Lindsay said he was 'truly devastated' at the 28-year-old's tragic passing.

The former textiles printing businessman paid tribute on Monday to a 'great hero' of his, former speaker Betty Boothroyd, who watched from the side gallery.

During the campaign to be the 158th Speaker, the 62-year-old said Parliament had a drinks and drugs problem and said MPs were telling him they can no longer stand for re-election as their family has to come first.

In an interview with The Sunday Times, he revealed he has a pet parrot called Boris and a tortoise called Maggie.

There was heartbreak for the twice-married politician and his family when his daughter, Natalie Lewis-Hoyle, was found dead in her bedroom just before Christmas 2017

Miss Lewis-Hoyle with Boris Johnson in 2016

Following the election, he was unanimously sworn back into the job on Tuesday this week.

In a statement issued this morning, Sir Lindsay said his symptoms had been so severe that medics had wanted him to stay in hospital for treatment but he refused on the grounds he did not want to miss the election campaign.



'I'm on tablets, as well as having to inject insulin, but it doesn't stop me carrying on and nothing is going to be a barrier to me,' he said.

'I'm going to cope with it. I'm going to manage it. I'm going to get through this.

'The fact is I feel really well. We know what it is – that's the good news - and of course, I have got to get over it and get on with my job.

'The House of Commons elected me to be the Speaker and there's nothing that's going to stop me from doing that.'

Sir Lindsay is now receiving treatment and awaiting further tests.

He said Mrs May's approach to handling her condition had shown him he could continue to perform his public roles without any fuss.

Sir Lindsay said 'it'll never be me' when he was asked who could tell him to slow down or stop but he did concede it could be his wife.

Sir Lindsey taking part in the Parliamentary pancake race in 2007

Sir Lindsay had been urged by his wife Catherine (pictured) and other family members to see a doctor after he lost three stone in weight in recent months

But he insisted he feels 'fit and energetic' and has no intention of stepping down.

He made the comments about his health condition during an interview with Rob McLoughlin for the forthcoming series 'Mr Speaker'.

Diabetes UK welcomed his decision to speak out.

Chris Askew, the charity's chief executive, said: 'Living with type 1 diabetes can be hard, but as Sir Lindsay's experiences have shown, with the right support from your healthcare team – and careful management – people can live full and healthy lives following their diagnosis.

'It's often thought that type 1 diabetes only affects children but, while it's less common to see someone of Sir Lindsay's age diagnosed, it can affect a person at any time in their life. That's why knowing the signs and symptoms of diabetes – the four Ts – can be a life-saver.

'So if you're going to the toilet a lot, experiencing increased thirst, are more tired than usual, or losing weight without trying, you should speak to a healthcare professional.'