Magen Rose Fieramusca, aka Maygen Humphrey, has been arrested

The best friend of Texas mother Heidi Broussard, who 'was with her when she gave birth last month and pretended to be pregnant herself', has been arrested in connection with her death.

Magen Rose Fieramusca, aka Maygen/ Megan Humphrey, 33, is being held in county jail on kidnapping and corpse tampering charges.

She was arrested on Thursday after a tip led police to a property in Jersey Village, on the outskirts of Houston.

They obtained search warrants from the property and found Heidi's body in the trunk of a car there.

Inside the house, police found Heidi's three-week-old daughter Margot alive and well.

A source now says Fieramusca was secretly plotting to steal the baby throughout Heidi's pregnancy, according to The Statesman.

Police held a press conference Friday but refused to officially disclose the arrested person's identity, citing the ongoing investigation. They said bond for the suspect was set at $600,000.

Heidi and Margot vanished from their home in Austin, 200 miles away, on December 12 after dropping Heidi's other child, six-year-old Silas, off at school. Heidi's fiance Shane Carey had made desperate public pleas for them to come home.

A second person is reportedly in custody but has not yet been named. Fieramusca has not been charged with murder.

On Facebook, Heidi gushed about Magen as her 'best friend'.

Scroll down for video

Heidi and Margot, pictured, were reported missing last Thursday by Broussard's fiance Shane Carey, who is also Margot's father

Police were called to this home in Houston where they found the car with Heidi's body in it and the baby, safe inside. It is unclear if anyone else was in the property at the time

Heidi referred to Maygen as her 'best friend' and 'bestie' on Facebook back in 2013

Tim Miller of EquuSearch, which assists police in missing person cases, said when Fieramusca was interviewed before the body was found, she was 'convincing.'

'I can't believe how sincere she sounded. So then, we got the news yesterday, I was just scratching my head. How in the world could this person sound so convincing?

'Now, (she's) being held on kidnapping and abuse of corpse charges. I don't know. It's still kind of like in shock,' he told ABC.

Miller added that she told police how close she and Heidi were, and that she was present for Margot's birth.

'Magen was there when Heidi had the baby. That's how close of friends they were. They had been friends forever.

'They were friends when Shane and Heidi got together 10 years ago,' he said.

Magen had a baby registry with a someone named Christopher Green where she asked for goods from Target for a new child that police now say never existed. Christopher's name is on the deed for the house where Heidi was found dead and Margot was found alive.

Detectives had been interviewing her family and friends and reviewing surveillance footage from the Houston apartment complex where Broussard lives.

FBI agents have been combing their apartment this week.

Authorities say they were still awaiting DNA tests on the baby and an autopsy on the woman's body to confirm they are the mother and child. The baby was described as being found 'healthy' and placed in the custody of Texas Child Protective Services.

Earlier this week, Heidi's fiance Shane Carey made an emotional plea for her and his daughter Margot to return home safely.

He appeared on morning TV shoes where he asked tearfully for them to be 'dropped off' somewhere, suggesting they had been taken captive.

Her parents, Tammy and David Broussard, also made a plea for her to come home.

'We miss all of them very much, and we want them home.

Magen had a baby registry with a someone named Christopher Green where she asked for goods from Target for a new child that police now say never existed. Christopher's name is on the deed for the house where Heidi was found dead and Margot was found alive

Heidi and baby Margot were reported missing by Carey, who is also Margot's father, at 7.30pm on December 12

Fieramusca appeared in court on Friday on unrelated traffic charges

Fieramusca in a 2018 mugshot for theft

'So, anybody who has her, please let them go – just let them go – and it'll be alright.'

She added: 'Heidi wouldn't do this, there's no way.

'She loves her son Silas and she would never do this, and she would never take Margot down those stairs without her carrier and have her strapped in and her diaper bag strapped to her back.'

Carey denied any involvement in the disappearance of his daughter and fiancee.

David and Tammy Broussard traveled from Lake Charles, Louisiana after news of their daughter and granddaughter's disappearance.

Authorities at the scene were seen entering the two-story building and searching a car at the back of the house

Last night police and the FBI were swarming a home in Harris County near Houston along with Texas Rangers and public safety officials

The FBI has now joined the search for a Texas mother and her newborn baby, who disappeared six days ago. The missing woman’s parents are now speaking out: “Something happened. She would not just leave.” @SamBrockNBC has the story. pic.twitter.com/HDTTnkUCWD — TODAY (@TODAYshow) December 18, 2019

Heidi's parents David and Tammy Broussard, pictured, previously made a tearful plea to find their daughter and granddaughter

Carey, pictured, gave tearful TV interviews saying that he didn't believe Heidi would leave on her own accord. He denied any involvement in the disappearance of his daughter and fiancee

Texas mom found dead in car trunk showed friend bruises and scratches 'left by her abusive fiance' The missing Texas mom found dead Thursday repeatedly tried to leave her fiancé and accused him of physically assaulting her, DailyMail.com can disclose. Photos taken by Heidi Broussard, 33, in March show the injuries she said she had suffered after fiancé Shane Carey attacked her in a row over her wish to leave him. Bruises to her arms and legs can clearly be seen in the pictures which Broussard sent to her friend of 20 years Cliff Nolte, 37. Broussard's body was found inside the trunk of a car at a home in Houston Thursday and inside police found her one-month-old daughter Margot alive. Photos taken by Broussard in March show bruises and red marks on her arms which she told friends were caused by her fiancé Shane Carey In the social media messages that accompanied the photos, Broussard said the bruises were due to Carey 'grabbing' her. She explained: 'Shane grabbed me really hard because I tried to stop him because he stole Zeus [their dog] last last [sic] cause I told him I couldn't stay.' A horrified Nolte then replies: 'You need to call the cops on him Heidi. You can't keep letting this happen.' No record of police call outs to Broussard's home could be found and Carey has no publicly recorded convictions. According to Nolte, the photos have been shared with the detectives investigating her December 12 disappearance and now-death along with baby daughter Margot. Two people - who have not been named - are in custody being questioned after the grim discovery was made thanks to a call to Child Protective Services. Nolte, of Rhome, Texas, said Broussard had intended to leave her fiancé after the March 11 incident but chose to stay after getting pregnant with Margot. He said: 'She was going to leave quite a few times. We had everything prepared at our house to come and stay the last time but then she got pregnant with Margot and she decided to stay.' Nolte added: 'He always pulled the ''I'm sorry, I won't do it anymore, I'll stop drinking'' promises and she kept hoping he'd keep them.' DailyMail.com can reveal that Broussard had repeatedly tried to leave her fiancé and accused him of physically assaulting her. Text message conversations between Broussard and her friend of 10 years explain how Carey 'grabbed her really hard' Her fiancé Shane Carey previously made an emotional public plea for Broussard and his one-month-old daughter to come home after the pair vanished last Thursday Two people - who have not been named - are in custody being questioned after Broussard's body was found. Margot was taken to the hospital but is believed to be in a good condition Broussard vanished with Margot from her Austin, Texas, apartment just over a week ago and was last seen dropping off son Silas, six, at a school book fair. Last weekend, Carey, 33, made a tearful TV plea for her return in which he claimed he had returned home at around 2pm only to find Broussard and Margot gone. Carey said the home they shared showed no sign of a break-in and said Heidi had left everything behind but her cellphone. He reported the pair missing five hours later at 7.30pm after collecting Silas from the elementary school where the mom-of-two was last seen. Neighbors Amanda and Cody Riordan said he had seen Casey pacing up and down outside their apartment building the day after Heidi disappeared Now DailyMail.com can reveal neighbors have cast doubt on his version of events, with one saying that he heard an argument from next door just before 2pm. Alan G, who asked not to use his full name, said he heard a muffled row shortly after returning home from his job as a barista at 1pm. He told DailyMail.com: 'It was definitely after 1. I heard noises that sounded like an argument coming through the wall.' Alan, who lives in the neighboring apartment, added: 'I didn't really know them very well – I would see them on the stairs and out walking the dog but that was it. 'We didn't really talk much.' The Austin Police Department would not comment further on the timeline when approached by DailyMail.com. Another neighbor Cody Riordan, 28, said he had seen Casey pacing up and down outside their apartment building the day after Heidi disappeared – adding that he had seemed distraught and was chain-smoking cigarettes. Riordan, who lives three floors below Broussard and Carey, said he did not know the couple well but said they had seemed content. Nolte, however, tells a different story – claiming that the pair, who met in 2009 and became engaged in 2012, have had a difficult relationship for years. The 37-year-old, who first met Heidi when she was 14, insisted to DailyMail.com that the children are the main reason Broussard stayed. He said: 'She wouldn't have left Silas but she wouldn't have left her stepdaughter either. She's Shane's daughter from a previous relationship. 'Heidi loved her just like she was her own.' Broussard and Margot were last seen in Austin, and a week later Broussard's body was found in the trunk of a car at a home in Houston while Margot was found alive Police were called to this home in Houston where they found the car with Heidi's body in it and the baby, safe inside. It is unclear if anyone else was in the property at the time Of Carey himself, he is far less complimentary. He told DailyMail.com: 'Shane and I have never liked each other. 'We've been civil for the most part, every time we've been around each other. But he's disrespectful, jealous and insecure. 'I've known him for the last six years – ever since he's been with Heidi.' Carey would not answer the door when DailyMail.com visited the apartment on Tuesday and Thursday, with neighbors saying he has not been seen there since Wednesday. Nolte's hope of finding Heidi and her baby daughter was quickly fading. He told DailyMail.com: 'There is no way possible that she left of her own accord. 'We have baby stuff for Margot and we still haven't gotten to meet her yet. I just want the person responsible to come forward. That would be the biggest blessing.'

Carey said he last saw Broussard when he left for work at around 6.40am on December 12.

Authorities said Broussard arrived at the school with Margot to drop off her son at around 7.30am. A surveillance image released by police showed the mother at the school wearing a purple shirt about 20 minutes later.

Carey said Heidi called him at about 8am to telling him she had bought some books for Silas at a school fair. He said he tried calling her again at around 1.40pm but her phone was turned off.

Carey arrived home from work at about 2pm and said Broussard and the baby were not there.

He said Broussard's car was unlocked and her purse was inside with her ID and bank cards still in it. Carey said her keys and cellphone were the only things missing.

Investigators are trying to determine if Broussard left on her own or if the she and her daughter (pictured together) are victims of foul play

FBI agents canvas the apartment complex in Austin where missing mom Heidi Broussard lives. Heidi has been missing since December 12 when she was last seen dropping her son Silas, at school. Her daughter three-week-old daughter Margot is also missing

Carey said he got a call from Silas' school soon after saying Broussard hadn't returned to pick up her son.

Detective Brad Herries, pictured, said authorities are exploring 'every possibility' and at this point are assuming they are alive

He said he went to pick up the boy and that Broussard still wasn't home when he returned. Police were notified several hours later.

Carey told Fox7 that when he first noticed Broussard was missing, he walked around the apartment complex 'going through dumpsters' to see if he could find her keys.

'I sat outside to see any suspicions, anything that was weird,' he said.

'The next morning I sat out here for hours asking everybody if they'd seen or heard screaming, anything that was off or suspicious.

'They're all saying no.'

Carey repeated his account in a phone interview with KVUE on Sunday during which he appeared unsettled and overwhelmed.

'Okay I'm gonna I'm gonna call you back or something, I don't know what to do man. You make me nervous, you know...I just want to be natural man,' he told the reporter.

Heidi's car is still parked outside the apartment she shares with Carey, pictured

'I just want to like... this is not... I don't know... get the word out there.'

He added: 'I don't know why anybody would ever harm or touch these two beautiful women together.'

Carey begged anyone with information to contact him or authorities and pleaded with the public to share social media posts about her disappearance.

'She would not do this by herself. She would not be doing this. This is definitely something that happened that was wrong,' he said.

'She is an amazing person. She has amazing support, friends behind her.

'She's so personable – one of the best people I've ever met, so kind, and she does anything for her kids – one of the best moms.'