One day after donning a leggy coral mini-dress for her appearance on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, Dua Lipa was back on the popular talk show to perform a song from her upcoming new album.

The British-born star, 24, brought the funk with a rousing rendition of her uptempo tune Don't Start Now.

Along with the funk, she also got the crowd worked up with her black sequined mini-dress that was paired with black stockings and matching platform heels.

She's back! Dua Lipa performed her new song Don't Start Now on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on Thursday, one day after appearance as a guest on the popular talk show

On this night, the London native wore her platinum shoulder-length tresses straight and with a part in the middle.

All the while, Lipa couldn't resist showing off some of her dance moves with the help of the bad band, that included string players, and bevy of backup singers.

Don't Start Now is from her upcoming second studio album, Future Nostalgia, which is slated to drop in early 2020.

She also has a European leg of a tour in support of the release already lined up that begins April 26, 2020 in Madrid, Spain.

Leggy: The British native got the crowd worked up with her black sequined mini-dress that was paired with black stockings and matching platform heels

Groovy: The singer also brought the funk with her tune Don't Start Now

Rockin': Lipa, 24, had a full band, including string players, and a bevy of backup singers

New album coming: Don't Start Now is from her upcoming second studio album, Future Nostalgia, which is slated to drop in early 2020

The previous day Lipa showed her bra and long gams when she sat down for an interview with Fallon on The Tonight Show.

Her metallic mini dress with came complete with a plunging neckline that flashed her matching bra and slip.

She completed her outfit with bronze stiletto open-toed collar heels, a number of necklaces and rings and her blonde hair worn down, like Thursday's performance.

Revealing: Dua Lipa made her first of back-to-back appearances Wednesday on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon in a metallic mini dress with plunging neckline

During their chat, Dua reminisced with Fallon, 45, over her first appearance in 2016 on the NBC talk show that also was her first US television performance.

She remembered hugging him afterward 'so hard' that he teased her by saying, 'You basically jumped on me'.

The singer also disclosed that the Grammy Award she won earlier this year for Best New Artist has made her work harder.

Warm welcome: The 24-year-old English singer received a warm welcome from the studio audience in New York City

'I definitely didn't expect anything like that with my first record,' admitted Dua, who also won a Grammy in February for Best Dance Recording for her song Electricity with the duo Silk City.

The pair also talked about her Sunny Hill Festival in Kosovo where she lived from age 11 to 15.

Turns out she went to her first show at age 13 in Kosovo and saw New York City hip hop group Wu-Tang Clan perform.

New music: Dua has been in promo mode ahead of the release of her second studio album

She explained that hip hop was popular in Kosovo and that the second show she went to was rapper 50 Cent.

'I'm a massive 50 Cent fan,' Dua said.

She launched the Sunny Hill Festival in 2018 to bring more artists to Kosovo, which included Miley Cyrus, 27, who performed during the second festival in Pristina last August.

Kosovo festival: The London native who was born to Kosovo Albanian parents launched the Sunny Hill Festival in 2018 to bring more artists to Kosovo where she lived from age 11 to 15

Dua said the Wrecking Ball star was the 'first international female to perform in Kosovo' and that her participation in the festival was her 'biggest dream come true'.

'She also killed. She just smashed it,' gushed Dua.

Dua first gained prominence as a model, before releasing her first song, New Love, in 2015.

Her eponymous self-titled debut album, released in 2017, contained seven singles, three of which made it into the top 10 in the UK.