Kate Garraway finally made it into the Good Morning Britain studio on Friday, after missing her first show back.

The presenter, 52, seemed thrilled to be back in the studio despite spending the night before partying at Piers Morgan's festive bash.

It came after Kate accidentally missed her first GMB show since her I'm A Celebrity stint on Thursday, as she slept in after failing to set her six alarms.

Hilarious: Kate Garraway finally made it into the Good Morning Britain studio on Friday, after oversleeping the day before, and co-host Ben Shephard gifted her with five alarm clocks

As she made her first appearance back on the panel, Kate was incredibly apologetic about missing the previous show, which saw Ranvir Singh step in for her at the last minute.

She told co-host Ben Shephard: 'I’m sorry about yesterday! It wasn’t that I couldn’t be bothered to get up… I famously have six alarm clocks at home.

'What happened is, [my son] Billy wasn’t well so I put him to bed. I fell asleep fully dressed with my boots on still, still had my makeup on.

'I woke up at 5:40. I’m so sorry because I was so excited about coming back!'

Fun: The presenter, 52, seemed thrilled to be back in the studio despite spending the night before partying at Piers Morgan's festive bash (pictured)

Funny: Kate was incredibly apologetic about missing her first show back, as she confessed she'd slept in after the spending the evening tending to her sick son Billy

On her way! Ahead of the show, Kate also confirmed that she was awake and heading to the GMB studio, as she shared a hilarious selfie of her freshly-washed hair

Determined: The mother-of-two admitted that she was partially ready for the TV appearance, but had remembered to get her alarms

Ben also revealed that he'd taken measures to ensure that Kate wouldn't sleep in again, by gifting her with a staggering five alarm clocks.

Ahead of the show, Kate confirmed that she was awake and heading to the Good Morning Britain studio, as she shared a hilarious selfie of her freshly-washed hair.

On Thursday Kate caused chaos in the GMB studio after she missing her first show back since her I'm A Celebrity stint.

The star was petrified she was going to be fired due to her blunder and called into the programme to explain herself to Ben and her replacement Ranvir.

Oops! The star seemed to be in much better form than the previous morning as she returned to the GMB panel

Jovial: Kate was happily perched back behind her GMB desk alongside co-hosts Ben and Charlotte Hawkins

Dynamic duo: The presenting pair interviewed guests that included DIY SOS star Nick Knowles

Chic: Kate was also dressed to impress in a glamorous purple velvet wrap dress as she hosted the breakfast show

Cosy: She continued to be in high spirits as she exited Global Studios in London after hosting her Smooth Radio show in a festive red coat with studded heeled ankle boots

Nearly Christmas: The star was certainly in the festive spirit as she beamed on her way into the studios

Appearing on the show via a video call on Thursday morning, the visibly stressed star said: ‘Listen, I’m going to get fired! I can’t believe I’ve done this!’

'I've still got my hair blow dried, all my make-up on from last night. William's off school at the moment, he's not very well so I was lying next to him and I fell asleep.

'I've still got my shoes on. I fell asleep and next thing I know it's 20 minutes ago. I've never done this in 20 years.'

'This is my first show back, I don’t know what I’m going to do! ‘I can’t believe I slept from 6pm all the way until now.

'I’ve got six alarm clocks and didn’t set any of them. Oh God, I’m so sorry, please don’t fire me!’

Mortified! On Thursday Kate caused chaos in the GMB studio after she missing her first show back since her I'm A Celebrity stint

Faux pas: The star was petrified she was going to be fired due to her blunder and called into the programme to explain herself

She lamented: ‘I've still got my shoes on. I fell asleep and next thing I know it's 20 minutes ago. I've never done this in 20 years'

Kate, who finished fourth in the Australian jungle, was seen wearing last night's clothes and had yesterday's make-up smeared over her face.

Ben first broke the news to viewers live on air by telling Ranvir it was a 'surprise' to see her next to him.

Ranvir chuckled: 'It's a bit of a surprise for me too. 3.26am, I got a text message this morning, just shortly after my alarm went off because I'm usually outside in the dark and the rain.

'"Hi love (this is from our lovely editor) we've got a problem - we can't raise Kate Garraway. If need be could you step in to do the show with Ben! We'll keep you posted."

Ranvir to the rescue: Ranvir Singh (right) was forced to step in at the last minute and join Ben Shephard (left) on Thursday's installment of GMB

Blunder: Kate, who finished fourth in the Australian jungle, was seen wearing last night's clothes and had yesterday's make-up smeared over her face

Kate also took to her Instagram to explain herself further, admitting she didn't even manage to take her contact lenses out before falling asleep.

Alongside a dishevelled selfie, she wrote: 'Oh no - disaster - overslept on my 1st morning back at work on @gmb . Fell asleep last night fully made up with clothes on and contacts in - didn’t set alarm .

'Woke up looking like this !!!??!!! Can’t believe it - am going to get fired first morning back!

'And to think @adeleroberts & @romankemp we were talking about this in the jungle and I was proudly saying I had never overslept enough in 20 years to actually miss a show !!!! That’s karma !!!!'.

Amused: Ben also took to Twitter to mock his co-host for her mishap, asking viewers if anything similar had happened to them

Ben also took to Twitter to mock his co-host for her mishap, asking viewers if anything similar had happened to them.

Turning Kate's disaster into a conversation point for Thursday's edition of GMB, he said: 'So @kategarraway sent me this pic when she woke up 15 mins before @GMB starts!! She’s overslept (she’s changed!) in her clothes + make up from night before.

'Have u ever overslept or missed a big event, and what happened?? Thank goodness for @ranvir01 coming 2 the rescue'.

Luckily for Kate, ITV sent her a message to let her know her job was definitely safe.