Advertisement

Heavy rain and flooding caused chaos for millions of people on their Christmas getaway today, with nine motorways and 18 rail lines disrupted across the country as more than two inches of rain fell.

Some 270 flood alerts or warnings have been imposed by the Environment Agency across the country with some areas braced for further chaos after already facing nearly two inches of rain in just 36 hours.

Rail passengers were urged not to travel between Brighton and Gatwick, a landslip near Guildford caused major disruption and the M23 motorway was closed in both directions near Crawley in West Sussex due to flooding.

It meant air passengers travelling to Gatwick for Christmas flights home faced blocked roads and railways as they desperately tried to reach the airport. The Met Office issued a weather warning for up to 1.2in (30mm) of rain to fall in southern England today, before a further alert for a similar amount in the same area over the weekend.

Frustrated travellers - many of whom are leaving work for the holidays tonight - took to Twitter to tell of their anger, with one saying it was a 'nightmare start to Christmas', and another who finally got to the office after four hours stuck in a taxi joking: 'Roll on Christmas.'

Heavy rainfall caused major disruption on the Southern, Thameslink and Gatwick Express network this morning, with Southern saying: 'We strongly advise to NOT travel at this time between Brighton and Gatwick Airport.'

A car sits submerged flooding on a ford near Billericay in Essex this afternoon following torrential rain in the area

Traffic on the A14 near Cambridge on a wet Friday morning today as the Christmas getaway gets under way

Matt Dunsmore, travelling from Manchester Victoria today, tweeted this picture and said: 'You cannot make it up. We have all just been thrown off the only non cancelled train to Liverpool. No driver. Would you like to wish us all a merry Christmas?'

The road is blocked with deep floodwater at Welney in Norfolk today following torrential rain in many parts of England

The River Arun bursts its banks near Pulborough in West Sussex today following heavy rain in recent days

Mike Denning from London tweeted this picture, joking: 'Happy Christmas to one and all from @SouthernRailUK - enjoy your holidays! Btw - we’ve cancelled your return journey. You’re welcome!'

A stranded vehicle in floodwater on Coppins Lane in Leigh near Tonbridge in Kent today following torrential rain overnight

Delays are expected to continue until 2pm, with Southern warning - on the third day in a row of major disruption - that alternative routes are 'limited', and told passengers: 'You should make your own way to your destination.'

Gatwick Express services were suspended on what is the busiest day of the festive period for UK airports. Southern and Thameslink said buses had been ordered but were being delayed 'due to road conditions'.

Network Rail said heavy rain had caused significant flooding on the Brighton main line, with water 'completely submerging the rails in some areas'. Engineers were on site and attempting to remove floodwater where possible.

A landslip near Guildford is causing major disruption to South Western Railway and Great Western Railway services. Rain also caused disruption to Great Western Railway services between Exeter St Davids and Taunton.

Police closed this road in Essex after the Mini got stuck trying to pass under the bridge which got flooded

This man stood behind a Maserati which was parked on the side of the road in Essex as a Land Rover Discovery waited to pass

Firemen from East Sussex Fire Brigade attempt to get to stranded motorists after the River Ouse at Barcombe Mills, East Sussex burst its banks

Water passed knee height on this section of roadway where several motorists managed to get stranded earlier today

These two ladies seemed well-prepared for the flooding as they were equipped with waders to keep out the water

At 8.30pm, Highways England warned about delays of more than an hour on the anti-clockwise lane of the M25 between Junction 9 near Leatherhead and Junction 8 near Reigate after a collision closed two of the carriageway's four lanes.

Emergency services attended the scene, however motorists have been warned that there are four-mile tailbacks in the area.

In Northamptonshire, the A14 has been closed in both directions between Junction 10 near Kettering and Junction 11 after a HGV carrying aerosol canisters caught fire.

According to Highways England: 'Eastbound traffic is being diverted via the hollow square diversion symbol. Exit the A14 at J10 and take the third exit onto the A6 Burton Road southbound. Continue on this road, around Latimer Bypass and through Finedon. Pass through the mini roundabout at the A6/A50 Wellingborough Road junction and through Irthlingborough, until the roundabout with the A6 and A45 (Chowns Mill). Take the first exit at this roundabout onto the A45 and continue through the A45 at Stanwick and rejoin the A14 at J13 (Thrapston).

'Westbound traffic should follow the above route, but in reverse. This is via the hollow circle symbol.

'Please allow extra time for your journey if you're travelling in the area this evening.'

The M66 in Greater Manchester is closed southbound between Junction 2 near Bury and Junction 3 due to a serious multi-vehicle collision. Emergency services including North West Motorway Police Group are in attendance.

A rainbow was spotted across several flooded fields on Friday in Welney, pictured

Aerial footage shows Wash Road under water after adjoining fields were covered in water in Welney, pictured

As the sun set on Friday in Welney, pictured, there was no sign that the flood waters in the area were about to recede

The Environment Agency has issued a red flood warning for Reybridge next to the village of Lacock in Wiltshire today

Vehicles attempt to cross a bridge over the River Avon near Lacock in Wiltshire today as parts of the country face flood misery

The M23 motorway has been closed in both directions near Crawley in West Sussex due to flooding this morning

London commuters faced disruption on the Underground today at Wembley Park station today amid signalling problems

Cars drive through floodwater on the A20 at West Kingsdown in Kent after overnight torrential rain

In Hampshire, section of a historic seafront promenade at Southsea has collapsed amid torrential weather conditions

An aerial view of Lacock Abbey and the flooded River Avon today following torrential rain in the Wiltshire village

Shoppers walk through heavy rain on Oxford Street in London as they carry out some late Christmas shopping today

Flooding at a junction at Haywards Heath in West Sussex today as hundreds of flood alerts and warnings are put in place

No Southeastern trains could run between Maidstone West and Strood due to a tree on the line and a landslip. Meanwhile, an RAC survey found 4.7million leisure trips by car would be taken today, as the getaway begins.

Where are the train delays in Britain today? Sittingbourne (Southeastern): Flooding

(Southeastern): Flooding Edinburgh and Falkirk High / Falkirk Grahamston (ScotRail): Signalling fault at Polmont

(ScotRail): Signalling fault at Polmont Lowestoft and Ipswich (Greater Anglia): Landslip at Woodbridge

(Greater Anglia): Landslip at Woodbridge Brighton and Gatwick (Gatwick Express / Southern / Thameslink): Heavy rainfall

(Gatwick Express / Southern / Thameslink): Heavy rainfall Guildford and Havant / Redhill (Great Western Railway / South Western Railway): Landslip near Guildford

(Great Western Railway / South Western Railway): Landslip near Guildford Strood and Maidstone West (Southeastern): Landslip between stations

(Southeastern): Landslip between stations Tonbridge (Southeastern): Electricity supply failure

(Southeastern): Electricity supply failure Chelmsford and Shenfield (Greater Anglia): Signalling fault near Ingatestone

(Greater Anglia): Signalling fault near Ingatestone Willesden Junction and Stratford (London Overground): Overhead wire problems at Camden Road

(London Overground): Overhead wire problems at Camden Road Gospel Oak and Barking (London Overground): Overhead wire problems at South Tottenham

(London Overground): Overhead wire problems at South Tottenham Ipswich and Peterborough (Greater Anglia): Signalling problems

(Greater Anglia): Signalling problems Norwich and Sheringham (Greater Anglia): Signalling problems

(Greater Anglia): Signalling problems Ascot and Reading (South Western Railway): Road accident at a level crossing near Wokingham

(South Western Railway): Road accident at a level crossing near Wokingham Tunbridge Wells and Hastings (Southeastern): Landslip between Robertsbridge and Etchingham

(Southeastern): Landslip between Robertsbridge and Etchingham Lichfield and Redditch / Bromsgrove (West Midlands Railway): Shortage of train crew

(West Midlands Railway): Shortage of train crew Ryde Pier Head and Shanklin (Island Line): Train fault

(Island Line): Train fault South Western Railway network : Strike action until January 2

: Strike action until January 2 Epsom and Ewell West (South Western Railway): Landslip between stations

Three stretches of motorway identified as having the longest expected delays were the M6 J5 Sutton Coldfield to J10A Wolverhampton, M25 clockwise J15 for M4 to J19 Watford and M1 south J16 Northampton West to J6 Watford.

Motorists were advised to delay journeys on major roads until after 8pm to avoid the worst of the traffic. Met Office meteorologist Mark Wilson said: 'Stay in touch with the forecast - there could be delays to transport.'

The train tracks at Frant station in East Sussex looked more like a canal, with one witness saying: 'When I turned up to the station it just looked like a river. I thought 'Oh God am I actually going to be able to get home tonight?'.

'The fields surrounding the station are just completely flooded too. I have my Christmas party tonight but I won't be able to fully let my hair down as I'm going to have to be checking if the trains are still running.'

In Hampshire, section of a historic seafront promenade at Southsea collapsed amid torrential weather conditions. The walkway had already been identified as 'dangerous' by Portsmouth City Council.

The section of the damaged promenade has now been cordoned off as work gets under way to stabilise sea defences. The council said 32ft-long piles were being driven into the beach as part of emergency repair work.

Torrential rain brought widespread flooding to the Kent and Sussex area, with problems on the M23 in addition to issues at Leigh near Tonbridge, where a man became stuck after driving through flood water.

Firefighters in water safety suits worked to release the man from his vehicle and people were asked to avoid the area. Crews were also investigating reports that a number of other cars were stuck in flood water.

Kent Fire and Rescue Service received calls to flooding from areas including Ashford, Maidstone and Tonbridge. Firefighters from Kent were also supporting East Sussex Fire and Rescue Service in Wadhurst.

Tailbacks on the M25 at junction 15 with the M4 as traffic battles through wet conditions at the start of the getaway today

The M23 is closed both ways between J10 and J11 due to substantial flooding which has blocked the route in West Sussex

Flooding on the A20 in West Kingsdown in Kent this morning after torrential rain overnight

Rail workers try to clear a landslip on a railway line between Guildford and Godalming in Surrey this morning

Water pours onto the M23 motorway in West Sussex today after it was closed overnight due to flooding

A woman holds her umbrella while walking through heavy rain on Oxford Street in London today

A flooded railway line at Balcombe in West Sussex this morning as commuters face disruption on Southern Rail today

A stranded vehicle in floodwater on Coppins Lane in Leigh near Tonbridge in Kent is pictured this morning

Forecasters say homes and businesses could be flooded, causing damage to some buildings, delays or cancellations to train and bus services are possible and spray and flooding could lead to problems on the roads.

Where are the problems on the UK's roads today? M1 northbound (J15 and J15A): Congestion

northbound (J15 and J15A): Congestion M3 eastbound (J7 and J6): Congestion

eastbound (J7 and J6): Congestion M4 westbound (J19 and J20): Accident

westbound (J19 and J20): Accident M6 southbound (J15 and J13): Congestion

southbound (J15 and J13): Congestion M11 southbound (J10 and J8): Congestion

southbound (J10 and J8): Congestion M23 both directions (J10 and J11): Flooding, two/three lanes closed

both directions (J10 and J11): Flooding, two/three lanes closed M23 southbound (J9 and J10): Congestion

southbound (J9 and J10): Congestion M25 anticlockwise (J8 and J7): Congestion

anticlockwise (J8 and J7): Congestion M25 clockwise (J14 and J15): Congestion

clockwise (J14 and J15): Congestion M25 clockwise (J25): Flooding, two lanes closed

clockwise (J25): Flooding, two lanes closed M26 both directions (J2A): Flooding, two lanes closed

both directions (J2A): Flooding, two lanes closed M42 southbound (J5 and J4): Congestion

southbound (J5 and J4): Congestion M60 clockwise (J11 and J15): Congestion

clockwise (J11 and J15): Congestion A1 northbound (A603 and A421): Congestion

northbound (A603 and A421): Congestion A1(M) northbound (J5): Accident, two lanes closed

northbound (J5): Accident, two lanes closed A5 northbound (A422 and A508): Congestion

northbound (A422 and A508): Congestion A12 both directions (A1414 and A1023): Congestion

both directions (A1414 and A1023): Congestion A12 southbound (A120 and A133): Congestion

southbound (A120 and A133): Congestion A23 northbound (A272 and M23): Congestion

northbound (A272 and M23): Congestion A23 northbound (A303 and A4): Congestion

Some communities may even be cut off by flooded roads, after Devon and Cornwall Police declared a major incident yesterday with rain leaving roads impassable – with the A30 bypass at Hayle temporarily closed.

Cardinham in Cornwall saw 2in (52mm) of rain over 36 hours while Bastreet Downs got 2.1in (53.4mm).

Flooding has also affected large swathes of the South and Midlands, with 69 flood warnings and 203 flood alerts in place.

Yellow weather warnings for rain remain in place for large swathes of the south until midday on Sunday, but forecasters are predicting that the situation in Cornwall will improve.

A spokesman for the Met Office said: 'There will be some showers around but nowhere near as much rain as today.'

But he added: 'More rain is coming from the south through the night and tomorrow.

'Most of the rain will be in the eastern part, eastern England and Scotland, gradually improving throughout the day. It does look, as we head into next week, that the weather will turn drier.'

Norfolk and Suffolk Police said parts of both counties had been inundated as of this morning.

The Environment Agency said it was monitoring the situation and the public were advised to remain vigilant.

Workers investigate the floodwater pouring onto the M23 motorway in West Sussex this morning

The M23 motorway was closed today in both directions near Crawley in West Sussex due to flooding, with delays building

Passengers crowd onto a Southern Rail train towards Bognor Regis in West Sussex this morning as the service is hit by delays

Flooding at Frant station in East Sussex on the Southeastern line, which runs services to London and Hastings, this morning

A dog looks up next to flooding on a road at Haywards Heath in West Sussex this morning

Tailbacks on the M25 at junction 15 with the M4 as traffic battles through wet conditions at the start of the getaway today

A Transport for London sign at Wembley Park (left) and commuters endure Tube delays at Harrow on the Hill today (right)

Flooding on the tracks at East Grinstead station in West Sussex, as a Southern Rail train is pictured on the opposite platform

A landslip on the railway line between Guildford and Godalming in Surrey today, which is blocking train services

Rail passengers queue up for a bus replacement service at Haywards Heath station in West Sussex this morning

Floodinng on the roads in the West Sussex town of Burgess Hill this morning as parts of England remain under a flood warning

The train tracks at Frant station in East Sussex looked more like a canal than a railway this morning

Forecasters said they believe the Christmas period should be drier, with an increased risk of frost and patchy fog – although the start of next week is likely to start unsettled and possibly windy, with further showers.

What is the forecast for Christmas Day? Britain is facing a Christmas Day freeze as mild and stormy conditions give way to Arctic temperatures and possible snow. A cold northerly blast will roar in during the middle of next week with frost and foggy conditions expected on the big day. It will follow an unsettled weekend with bouts of strong winds and torrential forecast through until Christmas Eve. Thermometers will plunge overnight into Christmas morning putting some northern parts of the country in the running for a festive flurry. Met Office meteorologist Emma Smith said: 'We are going into quite an unsettled period of weather with low pressure in charge although it will feel milder in the run up to Christmas. 'After the weekend high pressure will build and although it will be more settled it will turn colder with the arrival of Arctic Maritime air. 'There will be some showers around on Christmas Eve although Christmas Day is looking drier. 'There will be some easterly winds along the east coast of the country. To the South West there will be milder winds coming in from the West.'

Met Office chief meteorologist Paul Gundersen said: 'It'll feel a little more festive as we head into Christmas week, with colder temperatures and a return to frosts.'

Festive travellers were warned to take care on the roads amid possible frosts next week. Scottish Transport Secretary Michael Matheson said preparations have been made to help ensure safe travel over Christmas.

More than 4,500 seasonal treatment works on the trunk road network and 1,800 patrols have already taken place, using over 123,000 tonnes of salt. The Met Office predict sub-zero temperatures after showers this weekend.

John Halsall, managing director of Network Rail's southern region, said the combination of one of the wettest autumns since records began with a month's worth of rainfall in the past five days has put the rail network 'under enormous pressure'.

He went on: 'We have hundreds of colleagues out in force across the region to clear debris from drains, pump away excess water and clear mud and trees from the tracks.

'Our passengers have had an awful week of disruption, so I know an apology isn't enough. But we are working tirelessly to deliver the best service we can during these challenging circumstances.'

Meanwhile the Environment Agency told flood-hit communities today that many regions are actually still in 'drought' - particularly East Anglia, where rainfall has been below the long-term average in recent years.

Chiefs want the wet weather to continue until March to replenish parched underground water sources and aquifers, with Anglian Water saying 'significant rainfall' is needed to avoid 'water restrictions' next year.

Heavy rain is affecting rush hour commuters across Britain, with the worst of it on the eastern coast and South West

Families will make an estimated 31.2million leisure trips between Tuesday and Christmas Eve – the highest number since 2013

Nearly 240 flood alerts of warnings have been imposed by the Environment Agency across the country today

Further rain is expected tomorrow with southern England expected to be hit again, while temperatures will top 11C (52F)

Sunday will also see rain fall in the South and many parts of the North and Scotland, with similar temperatures expected

The plea will come as a shock to residents whose homes have been flooded, and farmers whose fields are swamped. Entire fields of potatoes have been ruined because machinery can't get in to dig them out.

Drivers who break down in unknown places can find out where they are Drivers with the AA who break down in unknown locations will now be able to find out where they are within a 3m x 3m (10ft x 10ft) square. A company called what3words has divided the world into 3m x 3m squares, and assigned each one a three word identifier. This means that AA customers can now provide the call operator with their exact what3words address during a breakdown to help find them faster. The AA estimates there could be up to 143 million car journeys over this Christmas period, with around 10,000 breakdowns per day. what3words does not require an internet connection, so even if a customer breaks down in a very rural location with no visible landmarks, they will be able to find and describe the exact position of their stranded vehicle.

The Environment Agency said the deluge over the last few weeks has helped but to really make a difference they want to see above-average rainfall continuing through to the early months of next year.

An EA spokesman said today 'November was the third month in a row that East Anglia received above average rainfall. Essex, Suffolk and Norfolk received more than 116 per cent long term average rainfall.

'The rainfall has reduced the soil moisture deficit which means groundwater is recharging. But we will remain in drought conditions until the groundwater has recharged sufficiently and are at or near normal levels.'

Bookmakers have cut odds on this month being the wettest December on record, with Ladbrokes and Coral now both offering 5/4. A white Christmas – snow anywhere in the UK on Christmas Day - is priced at 4/6.

A Ladbrokes spokesman said: 'It looks as though the rain won't be going anywhere over the next few weeks with odds continuing to tumble on this being the wettest December ever.'

The Met Office said Britain as a whole had had 84 per cent of its average rainfall for the period of December 1 to 18 so far this month, and that this month is unlikely to be particularly extreme in terms of downpours.

Forecaster Bonnie Diamond told MailOnline: 'The rainfall has caused issues in parts of the UK because the last couple of months have been quite wet, so rain has been falling on already saturated ground.'

Couple put their home on STILTS after facing losing it following severe flooding damage A couple who faced losing their home after it was damaged by flooding are in fear no more after putting it on stilts. Dawn and Sam Ray have lived close to the banks of the River Severn for nearly 50 years, and they took occasional flooding for granted until the house was flooded by 4ft 6in of water in 2007. Determined not to be beaten, the pair spent more than £100,000 having builders lift part of the house onto 12ft-high stilts - meaning they are high and dry in all weathers. Dawn and Sam Ray at their home near the banks of the River Severn which was rebuilt on stilts to raise it up above any flooding in future The pair spent more than £100,000 having builders lift part of the house onto stilts - meaning they are high and dry in all weathers Mrs Ray, 78, said: 'We've lived here for over 45 years so there's no chance we're going anywhere. In the floods of 2007 the front room was under 4ft of water. 'We could have had it put right by insurance but it would have happened again two or three times since so we decided to go down this route. We definitely made the right decision. We've got no worries at all and it's an excellent place to live.' The couple spent six months living in Ray's 'man cave' - a shed nicknamed 'Chez Ray' while builders spent six months painstakingly moving the house onto four, 12ft high stilts. Mr Ray said: 'We lived in the shed for six months while the house was being built. The house is basically a bungalow on stilts.' Mr Ray is pictured in floodwater. The couple took occasional flooding for granted until the house was flooded by 4ft 6in of water in 2007 The house close to the banks of the River Severn was flooded in 2007 before being rebuilt - and it is now on 12ft-high stilts During the recent flooding in Gloucestershire and Worcestershire, Mr Ray said the house has been unscathed. The couple have even been marooned at the house for up to a week. Mr Ray, 82, said: 'We've had a bit of seepage underneath but we would have had a foot in the old house. Now we can just sit and watch the water appear. 'We do get marooned but the way we look at it is that if we can't get out than no one else can get in. We stock up with supplies. The longest we've been marooned is a week. 'When we were younger we just used to wade through the water to where the car was uphill. It was an adventure, now we just take it in our stride. Sometime's it'a bit like living in a castle.' Mr and Mrs Ray finally moved into their new home early in 2009 - and have been dry ever since. Mr Ray said: 'It wasn't sellable and we like living here. The water can't reach us now. A lot of people say we've done the right thing. As we get older we intend to stay at the house. There's just the one flight of steps so it's quite easy.'

Farm surrounded by 15ft of water will be underwater for Christmas six weeks after river flooded

A farm will be underwater for Christmas six weeks after a river flooded following torrential downpours.

Henry Ward's farmhouse and outbuildings were left surrounded by 15ft of water after the Barlings Eau, a river near Lincoln, burst its banks in mid-November.

More than 1,000 acres of farmland in Lincolnshire was left underwater and six weeks later they are still waiting for water to be pumped off the land by the Environment Agency.

This farmhouse and outbuildings in Lincolnshire have been left surrounded by 15ft of water after a river burst its banks

The breach in the riverbank has now been plugged but he may have to wait another three weeks until all the water has been drained off the farm.

Mr Ward, 28, said: 'Six weeks on and the farm is still flooded and is probably around 4ft at its deepest. The Environment Agency has put pumps in place and hopes to start running them in the next couple of days.

'But it will likely take around three weeks for the water to be removed completely. I'm dreading seeing the mess once the water goes, I think all the fencing would have collapsed and the ditches and drains will be full of silt.'

More than 1,000 acres of farmland was left underwater and six weeks later they are still waiting for water to be pumped off

He said they would have to be patient and let the land dry out - and cannot plant any crops until October. He added: 'We would have lost a year. I have sheep I was expecting to take to the yard in a couple of weeks.

'But I can't do that now and will have to make alternative arrangements to relocate them. We will probably end up losing around £100,000 in terms of damage and loss of earnings.'

Mr Water, who had only just taken over the farm in September from his father, Joe Ward, said he hoped the Government would give more money to the EA to maintain its rivers. He added: 'We need to learn from this.'