Advertisement

The stars of TV and sport were out in force for Piers Morgan's annual Christmas party at Kensington's The Scarsdale Tavern on Thursday evening.

So naturally social media was littered with snaps from the party - to hilarious effect, with cricketer Kevin Pietersen calling Piers out for serving prosecco rather than champagne - however Piers took to Twitter to share his receipt and confirm he purchased an eye-popping £4200 worth of Bollinger.

As well as the prosecco banter, Piers' Good Morning Britain co-star Kate Garraway also revealed she left the bash early on for fear of missing work - having overslept earlier in the day and missed her return to the show, while Holly Willoughby revealed she attempted to avoid a hangover by munching a cheese sandwich.

Here he is! Social media was littered with snaps and insights from Piers Morgan's Christmas party - to hilarious effect, with cricketer Kevin Pietersen calling Piers out for serving prosecco rather than champagne which he then proved was a lie

Cricketer Kevin appeared extremely disappointed with the fact that the journalist and TV star decided to serve prosecco rather than champagne - as he shared a video and branded Piers 'a fraud'.

He continually jibed Piers about the change in drink as he shared a caption reading: 'Sooooo disappointed in @piersmorgan. Serving Prosecco when he invited us saying he’s a champagne boy! You Are A Fraud!'

Defiant Piers hit back at the claims as he stated: 'I only serve Bollinger... You just can't taste the difference.'

Ensuring he proved his point, the cheeky star took to Twitter the following morning to share a copy of his receipt which appeared to confirm that he had bought 60 bottles of Bollinger - for a price of £4200.

No prosecco here! Ensuring he proved his point, the cheeky star took to Twitter the following morning to share a copy of his receipt which appeared to confirm that he had bought 60 bottles of Bollinger - for a price of £4200

Cheers: Despite his protestations about the drink, Kevin appeared to be enjoying himself - and even spilled some of the drink down his top in scenes which Piers appeared to be finding hilarious

Be careful! Holly Willoughby was sure not to get too tipsy by having a drink when she left the house

Girls' night out: Holly and Christine Lampard were among the stars attending Piers Morgan's annual Christmas party in London on Thursday night

Holly ensured she wouldn't be getting too merry for the bash as she shared a selfie with a sandwich while adding the playful caption: 'Tactical cheese sandwich before tonight’s Christmas festivities'.

Kate Garraway was making playful reference to her mishap earlier in the day, after she was late for her first day back on Good Morning Britain since her return from I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here.

She shared a snap with her co-stars and wrote: 'Hmmm @piersmorgan ‘s Xmas drinks - a dangerous event to go to for a woman who over slept this morning and missed her first @gmb show back after jungle .... but am leaving @errongordon @lauratobin100 @tvsrichardarnold & @ranvirtv to drink my share ... am off to bed .... I promise'.

After being late for work just one day before, Kate took to social media the following morning to reveal she was ready for work despite the raucous evening the night before, as she shared a dishevelled selfie.

Cheeky! Piers was feeling playful as he posed with his pal Susanna Reid (left), who was glowing, while also posing up a storm with their fellow anchor Charlotte Hawkins (right)

Happy days: Kate Garraway was making playful reference to her mishap earlier in the day, after she was late for her first day back on Good Morning Britain since her return from I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here

Happy days: Kate had a laugh about her mishap earlier in the day as she posed with the whole gang

She tagged her co-star Ranvir Singh, while adding the caption: 'Just to reassure @ranvirtv & the rest of the @gmb crew - am up , dressed , hair washed ( albeit not brushed) & on my way!!!'

Ranvir was taking to Instagram herself as she shared a selfie with Christine and Holly and wrote: 'Happy families @itv with these lovely women @christinelampard and @hollywilloughby - Happy Christmas everyone !'

She even poked fun at Kate's tardiness, as she penned: 'Finally got to give this gorgeous woman a squeeze after @imacelebrity ! @kategarraway and her stunt double in the same place at the same time. Let’s hope she’s got her alarm clock on for @GMB'.

Haha: Piers and Gary then posed with their boys, with George making a joke about who would continue the party at swanky nightclub Raffles, as he added the caption: 'Which 2 are gonna end up in Raffles'

Here come the girls! She tagged her co-star Ranvir Singh, while adding the caption: 'Just to reassure @ranvirtv & the rest of the @gmb crew - am up , dressed , hair washed ( albeit not brushed) & on my way!!!'

Cheers! As an avid sports fan, Piers' guestlist was loaded with stars, with footballer Gary also joined by fellow legend of the pitch Frank Lampard, who Spencer posed with and added a caption reading: 'Annual Xmas drink with this gent'

Time to celebrate: Christine and Frank, who will celebrate their third wedding anniversary on Wednesday, looked in the party spirit as they arrived in their taxi

Annual Christmas bash: Piers, 54, invited a slew of his showbiz pals to the festivities and appeared in a joyous mood

Happy days: Gillian McKeith and her daughters dressed up for the occasion

Piers shared a sweet snap with James Blunt - yet made a joke that he was being kissed by the crooner, as he penned: 'A pub laden with mistletoe & beautiful women - and this was the only smacker I got. @jamesblunt #XmasPubBash'.

Confirming her friendship with Piers' son Spencer as well as Gary Lineker's son George, Georgia Toffolo shared a stunning snap with her arms wrapped around the two stars' sons.

Piers and Gary then posed with their boys, with George making a joke about who would continue the party at swanky nightclub Raffles, as he added the caption: 'Which 2 are gonna end up in Raffles...'

As an avid sports fan, Piers' guestlist was loaded with stars, with footballer Gary also joined by fellow legend of the pitch Frank Lampard, who Spencer posed with and added a caption reading: 'Annual Xmas drink with this gent'.