Rob Burrow's crowdfunding page has already reached over £50,000 in less than 24 hours, after a huge outpouring of emotion from the rugby family following his motor neurone disease diagnosis.

The 37-year-old Leeds Rhinos stalwart, who made 492 appearances and won 15 caps for England and five for Great Britain, announced the devastating news in a statement on Thursday.

MND has a two to five year prognosis, and Burrow has received the support of numerous players past and present, including fellow MND sufferer and former Scottish rugby union international Doddie Weir, who was diagnosed with the illness in June 2017.

Leeds Rhinos legend Rob Burrow has been diagnosed with motor neurone disease

MND sufferer and former Scottish rugby union player Doddie Weir has spoken to Burrow

Burrow's crowdfunding page had already reached over £50,000 on Friday morning

Weir said on Twitter on Thursday: 'I met with Rob Burrow last night and offered him whatever help and support he might need at what is a difficult time.

'Meeting another sportsman suffering from MND has strengthened my resolve to help find a solution to this condition.'

After his emotional statement announcing the news early on Thursday, Burrow posted last night: 'Today has been a big day for me and my family but I would like you all to know I have read every message and post.

'I can't explain how overwhelmed I am at the reaction I have had from people throughout our amazing sport.

'Thank you so much from the bottom of my heart!'

The 37-year-old enjoyed a glittering career with the Rhinos - winning eight Super League titles

Burrow pictured in 2017 with wife Lindsey (left) and friends James and Charlotte Broughton

As of Friday morning at 8am Burrow's page, in association with the Leeds Rugby Foundation, had reached £53,345,000, with 2,749 supporters in total.

The page reads: 'We need your help. Leeds Rhinos legend Rob Burrow has announced he has been diagnosed with motor neurone disease (MND).

'A fund will be set up to support Rob in his treatment and his family of a wife and three young children under 8 in the years ahead.'

Burrow only retired two years ago after winning his eighth Super League Grand Final and is currently Leeds' reserve team head coach.

He also won the Challenge Cup in 2014 and 2015, as well as three World Club Challenges and three League Leaders Shields.

He posted this picture on December 19, 2017 with his wife and two daughters Macy and Maya

As well as their two young daughters, the Burrows also have a son called Jackson

Burrow's former club and international team-mate Kevin Sinfield expressed his heartache at the news on Thursday.

'This has been devastating news and heart breaking for Rob and his young family,' Sinfield - who is now Leeds' Director of Rugby - said.

'The thoughts of everyone at Leeds Rhinos and, I am sure, throughout the Rugby League family is with Rob and his wife Lindsey.

'Throughout his career, Rob overcame the odds to become a legend of the game and I know he will tackle this challenge with the exact same positive determination.

'As a club, Rob will receive our full support and we will be working with him to chart the way forward.'

'The news has been a massive shock and I know it will be similar for his many former team mates, friends and fans in the game.

Kevin Sinfield (second right) has expressed his heartache at the news about his close friend

'We will be developing ways we can best support Rob and his family in the future over the next few weeks and will be hoping to announce plans as soon as possible in the New Year.

'In the meantime, I would ask you all to keep Rob and his family in your thoughts over the Festive period.'

Current England international Sam Tomkins announced on Friday that he would auction his England shirt from the recent World Cup 9s tournament, with all the money going to Burrow and his family.

I’m auctioning off my England shirt from the World Cup 9s with all money going to Rob Burrow and his family.



The shirt will be personalised and signed however the winning bidder would like and il make sure it’s in your hands before Christmas pic.twitter.com/Clh949oim1 — sam tomkins (@samtomkins1) December 20, 2019

Harlequins player Danny Care tweeted: 'Devastating news. All of rugby union is behind you. Hero of mine growing up. Stay strong mate.'

Former Newcastle defender Ryan Taylor said 'so sad' on social media, while actor Matthew Lewis - who is a huge rugby league fan - said: 'Rob is one of the most inspirational men I've ever met.

'Humble and genuine, a childhood hero I'm fortunate enough to call a friend. This is heartbreaking.'

Rob is one of the most inspirational men I’ve ever met. Humble and genuine, a childhood hero I’m fortunate enough to call a friend. This is heartbreaking. https://t.co/Hysa67v1M5 — Matthew Lewis (@Mattdavelewis) December 19, 2019

Former Wales international and current BBC commentator Jonathan Davies said: 'This is dreadful news. My thoughts are with Rob Burrow, his family and friends.

'Hope the Rugby League family show what a great game it is and give him all the support he deserves. Just like rugby union are supporting Doddie Weir.'

The same disease claimed the life of former Rangers defender Fernando Ricksen in September.

Leeds have announced that the testimonial for Jamie Jones-Buchanan against Bradford Bulls on January 12, 2020 at Headingley will now be a joint-fundraiser for both players.