Liam Payne 'confirmed' his former romance with Naomi Campbell on Thursday's episode of Watch What Happens Live, despite 'pleading the fifth'.

The 26-year-old English singer appeared on the Bravo talk show with Lea Michele, 33, who dropped him right in it, when he was quizzed about the supermodel, 49.

He also insisted that he is the most well-endowed member of One Direction and revealed he has finally reunited with Harry Styles, 25, after three years.

Wow: Liam Payne, 26, 'confirmed' his former romance with Naomi Campbell, 49, during Watch What Happens Live on Thursday, insisted he is the most well-endowed member of 1D and revealed he's finally reunited with Harry Styles after three years

All over now: Liam and Naomi were linked at the start of the year, but he's now dating model Maya Henry, 19 (pictured on December 2)

Under the rules of the game, Plead The Fifth, host Andy Cohen, 51, asks guest three questions and they can 'plead the fifth', or refuse to answer, only one of them.

The game is a play on the Fifth Amendment of the US Constitution that grants the right to prevent self-incrimination in a criminal case.

Liam had been linked to Naomi at the start of the year and Andy noted they were spotted at the London's o2 and left 'sexy comments' on each other's Instagrams.

Take a sip: Liam claimed to be the most well-endowed member of One Direction

Friends: He also spoke about reuniting with fellow former bandmate Harry Styles after three years at Capital FM's Jingle Bell Ball in London on December 7

'Liam, can you confirm or deny that you dated Naomi?,' Andy asked him.

'I plead the fifth,' Liam quickly answered.

But in doing so, he basically confirmed he had, otherwise, he simply would have said no.

Lea was in agreement with this and said: 'He confirmed it!'

'I pled the fifth. It's my right as a human,' Liam asserted.

She speaks the truth: Lea Michele was also on the show and said Liam was basically confirming his romance with Naomi when he refused to discuss it

Something fishy: Lea also called it an 'honor' to be slighted by Lindsay Lohan, 33, online over a comment she made about the Little Mermaid

He was then asked to name the most 'well endowed' member of One Direction and he picked himself... naturally.

He asked Liam to describe his conversation with ex bandmate Harry, after seeing him for the first time in three years at Capital's Jingle Bell Ball in London this month.

'We spoke about a number of things. We hadn't seen each other for three years. Literally, I haven't seen him once and we hadn't spoken or anything,' Liam said.

Together again: Liam said of Harry 'We spoke about a number of things. We hadn't seen each other for three years. Literally, I haven't seen him once and we hadn't spoken or anything'

The host: Andy Cohen welcomed Lea and Liam into the Bravo clubhouse

'So it was good to see him. He was pretty much the same boy that I left him. We spoke about the kids and happiness and all sorts of stuff,' Liam said.

Meanwhile, a caller named Betsy from Arizona asked Lea for her reaction to Lindsay 'shading' her after landing the role to play Ariel for a live performance of The Little Mermaid at the Hollywood Bowl.

The Disney Princesses page announced Lea's participation in the May show on Instagram in April and she had left a comment that read: 'Huh?'.

'I know, I saw that, it was very interesting. I find it to be an honor' she said.

'Yes. To be shaded by Lindsay Lohan,' Andy said.

'Classic, classic, great. Down with it, of course,' Lea said.

Lea and Liam also played a game called Never Have I Ever: Music Industry Edition.

Game time: Liam and Lea also played a game called Never Have I Ever: Music Industry Edition

Liam drank tequila while Lea sipped on a cocktail during the game and both drank to having an entourage of more than 10 people, getting in a fight with their manager, telling a fellow musician they loved their song when secretly hating it and regretting a music video concept.

The singer who released his debut album LP1 earlier this month drank alone during the game for doing a lip sync during a performance and starting a Twitter war with a fellow musician.

Liam explained that he and Boy George had a 'random' online spat but have since made up.

'Had a big row. All a bit of fun,' Liam said.