While there's no denying she still looks great, Love Island Australia's Jessie Wynter has admitted to feeling 'disappointed' after gaining weight in recent months.

Taking to Instagram on Friday, the 23-year-old former reality star shared a throwback photo of herself standing on the beach in a black bikini.

Her lean physique and toned abs are on show as she runs a hand through her then-pink hair.

Now and then: While there's no denying she still looks great, Love Island's Jessie Wynter has admitted to feeling 'disappointed' after gaining weight in recent months. Pictured now (left) and in a throwback photo

'It's tough because I look back on photos like this then look at where my physique is now and I feel a bit disappointed,' she captioned the photo.

But she continued, saying she finds it fruitless to compare her current self to the way she used to look.

'That's when I pull my head in and acknowledge that yep, my body has changed over the last few months, BUT where I was in this photo was probably my peak, and I can't compare myself to that,' she added.

'It's... I look at where my physique is now and I feel a bit disappointed,' she lamented

Jessie confessed that despite her flawless appearance in the photo, she wasn't actually in the healthiest head space when it was taken.

'Yeah I like this photo, but at this stage in my life I was obsessed with the way my body looked,' she admitted.

And she said she's much happier now after achieving some balance and perspective in her life.

'I've gone from religiously working out and being obsessed with what I eat to ACTUALLY living a life,' she confessed. Pictured with fellow Love Island star Blake Williamson

'I've gone from religiously working out and being obsessed with what I eat to ACTUALLY living a life,' she continued.

'I've been having so much fun eating out with friends, going to events, not revolving my days around a "healthy lifestyle".

'I'm happier, healthier and having more fun than ever. My body definitely looks different but that's okay!'

Working it: Despite her newfound approach to body image, Jessie revealed she had recently gotten back into working out, sharing a photo of herself at the gym on Wednesday. Pictured with trainer Matt Thomas (centre) and fellow Love Island star Todd Elton (right)

She added: 'It's not sustainable to be at your peak all the time! Our bodies change all the time.'

Despite her newfound approach to body image, Jessie revealed she had recently gotten back into working out, sharing a photo of herself at the gym on Wednesday.

'Finally made it to the gym. Keen to get back into it,' she wrote.