Emmy nominee Chris Pine reunited with his girlfriend - The Loudest Voice star Annabelle Wallis - over a lunch date in Hollywood on Thursday.

The 39-year-old Los Angeles native flashed a coy smile during his rare public outing with the British 35-year-old, whom he began romancing in April 2018.

Chris and Annabelle later stopped by the refugee charity shop Choose Love in West Hollywood.

Still going strong! Emmy nominee Chris Pine reunited with his girlfriend - The Loudest Voice star Annabelle Wallis - over a lunch date in Hollywood on Thursday

Wallis took to Insta-story to urge her 438K followers to stop by Choose Love and shop for practical gifts for refugees like tents, nappies, and sleeping bags.

Pine flew back from Romania after wrapping his role Monday as discharged Green Beret James Reed in Tarik Saleh's action flick Violence of Action with his Hell or High Water castmate Ben Foster.

The UC Berkeley grad will enjoy the holidays before beginning production in January on the 1963-set drama Newsflash, in which he plays CBS anchor Walter Cronkite - according to Deadline.

As for the Peaky Blinders actress, she just wrapped Aquaman director James Wan's horror flick Malignant in Los Angeles on December 8 alongside co-star Maddie Hasson.

Salt and pepper: The 39-year-old Los Angeles native flashed a coy smile during his rare public outing with the British 35-year-old, whom he began romancing in April 2018

Instagram official! Chris and Annabelle later stopped by the refugee charity shop Choose Love in West Hollywood

'Come down!' Wallis took to Insta-story to urge her 438K followers to stop by Choose Love and shop for practical gifts for refugees like tents, nappies, and sleeping bags

'It's been an absolute honor to work with all the incredible people involved,' Annabelle gushed last week.

'To say I'm excited for you to see this is an understatement! I have loved every moment of the journey. Especially my brown hair! AUGUST 14 2020! See you there!'

Wallis was previously romantically linked to Chris Martin from 2015-2017 while the I Am the Night producer-actor previously dated Zoë Kravitz and Olivia Munn.

Pine's WWI pilot character Steve Trevor was mysteriously resurrected from the dead for Patty Jenkins' highly-anticipated sequel Wonder Woman 1984, which hits US/UK theaters on June 5.

Hell or High Water brothers: Pine flew back from Romania after wrapping his role Monday as discharged Green Beret James Reed in Tarik Saleh's action flick Violence of Action with Ben Foster (2-R)

'I'm excited for you to see this!' As for the Peaky Blinders actress (R), she just wrapped Aquaman director James Wan's (M) horror flick Malignant in Los Angeles on December 8 alongside co-star Maddie Hasson (L)

'I can't tell you [how he's back], but here's what I will say: We didn't put Steve Trevor in this movie because we just wanted to put Steve Trevor in this movie,' the 48-year-old filmmaker explained at CCXP in Brazil earlier this month.

'When we thought of the story for this film while we were making the first film, a eureka moment came and it couldn't have been told without Chris Pine playing Steve Trevor.

'So I promise you it's not a gimmick, it's integral to the story, it was incredibly important that we had him and we just super enjoyed it. So it was great having Chris back but it's also important to the story that I can't wait for you to see.'

Hitting US/UK theaters on June 5! Pine's WWI pilot character Steve Trevor was mysteriously resurrected from the dead for Patty Jenkins' highly-anticipated sequel Wonder Woman 1984