His budding new romance with DJ Michelle Owen was revealed in October.

And on Thursday, Michael Klim cosied up to his new lady love as they went for a swim in Bali.

Taking to Instagram, the 42-year-old shared some sweet snaps of the pair and captioned them: 'It doesn't get much better then this.'

'It doesn't get much better than this': Olympic swimmer Michael Klim (left) cosied up to his girlfriend Michelle Owen (right) as they relaxed by a pool during their Bali holiday on Thursday

In one photo posted, the Olympic swimmer smiled from ear to ear as the musician wrapped her arms around him.

The couple embraced their silly side in another photo as Michelle, showing off a silver ring on her wedding finger, jokingly put her finger up Michael's nose which he captioned 'romantic!!!'

Michael took to Instagram to share a video of himself swimming with his injured leg up in the air to keep it from getting wet.

The clips also showed Michelle bonding with his children - Stella, Rocco and Frankie - splashing around in the swimming pool.

Having a bit of fun: In another photo, the couple embraced their silly side as Michelle, showing off a silver ring on her wedding finger, jokingly put her finger up Michael's nose. He captioned the post 'romantic!!!'

Ring-a-ding-ding: In another photo, Michelle dressed in a crop top with a black and white shirt, and again showed off the elegant silver ring on her wedding finger

Later in the evening, the brunette beauty enjoyed dancing with Michael's youngest child Frankie, both showing off their moves under disco lights.

Michael and Michelle's day out with his three children comes after they debuted their romance back in October.

They were spotted out at lunch at a cafe in Bondi before packing on the PDA during their romantic date, Woman's Day reported.

Bonding: Clips from Michael's Instagram story also show Michelle bonding with his children - Stella, Rocco (left) and Frankie (right) - splashing around in the swimming pool

Before stepping out in public together, Michael split with his longtime girlfriend Desiree Deravi back in May and found love mere five months later with Michelle.

Michael was previously married to Lindy Rama-Ellis before their split in 2016 following almost a decade of marriage which resulted in a bitter breakup.

But now the couple have mended their relationship for the sake of their three children.

Working together: After a bitter split in 2016, Michael and his ex-wife Lindy Rama-Ellis (left) have mending their relationship now as co-parents for the sake of their three children

Lindy, 43, recently told The Morning Show: 'We've actually got to a really good space at the moment and we have a group WhatsApp [in which] we work out a lot of the co-parenting issues.

'Sometimes I will text Michael and say, "Oh God, Stella [their daughter] has just asked for a double piercing. Firstly, where's that going to be, and secondly what do we do about this?'

While Lindy said that she and Michael aren't in a 'Gwyneth Paltrow and Chris Martin situation just yet', but that they are well on their way to building a strong friendship.