It wouldn't be the festive season without a jolly playlist, but before you step into Christmas, you’ll need to find the top 20 songs hidden in this brainteaser.

Lost in the chaos of the puzzle, which was released by Christmas tree retailer Hayes Garden World, are picture clues representing the names of 20 festive hits. Think of it like a jumbo festive Catchphrase.

Whether you’re looking forward to a Silent Night or fancy dancing the night away like Last Christmas, this tricky puzzle is sure to get you thinking about some of the merriest tunes.

But can you break the record and solve the puzzle in under five minutes?

Scroll down for reveal

A new brainteaser (pictured), created by Hayes Garden World, challenges puzzlers to find the twenty hidden Christmas songs in the busy graphic

Struggling to seek out the songs? Look away now as the answers are imminent...

Amongst the Christmas tunes hidden within the scene include Fairytale of New York, I saw Mommy Kissing Santa, White Christmas, Rockin’ around the Christmas Tree, Have Yourself A Merry Little Christmas, All I want for Christmas and Deck the Halls.

But for anyone still scratching their heads, you'll find a full list in the box below...

And it's not the first festive brainteaser that's left even the most eagle-eyed players scratching their heads.

If you're struggling to find the answers, look at the numbers in the graphic and those in the box below to to reveal all

REVEALED! TWENTY HIDDEN CHRISTMAS SONGS 1. Fairytale of New York 2. I saw Mommy Kissing Santa 3. White Christmas 4. Rockin’ around the Christmas Tree 5. Have Yourself A Merry Little Christmas 6. All I want for Christmas 7. Deck the Halls 8. Little Drummer Boy 9. Santa Baby 7. Deck the Halls 8. Little Drummer Boy 9. Santa Baby 10. Stepping into Christmas 11. Do they know it’s Christmas 12. Baby Its Cold Outside 13. I Wish It Could Be Christmas Everyday 14. Santa Claus is Coming to Town 15. Last Christmas 16. Jingle Bell Rock 17. Mistletoe & Wine 18. Driving Home for Christmas 19. Silent Night 20. Let it Snow

A second graphic, created by UK-based holiday service provider Holiday Extras, challenges netizens to spot a passport hidden among festive cards.

With dozen of colourful cards in red, green and yellow, the test might prove tricky for some.

The current record set at 48 seconds - so, can you beat the odds and find the travel document even faster?

The mend-muddling graphic, pictured, created by UK-based holiday service provider Holiday Extras, challenges puzzlers to spot a passport hidden among festive cards

If you're struggling to find the much needed travel document, pinpoint your search to the bottom of the image - or if you're really stuck, you can find the answer circled below.

If you didn't manage to beat the record, fear not, there are plenty of other brainteasers to try.

Another spot the difference puzzle sweeping the web left Brits baffled in recent weeks.

The busy image, created by Canine Cottages, challenges the public to spot the adorable dog lost in a crowd of cheery white polar bears.

Give up? The answer is circled in yellow at the bottom of the image (pictured), revealing where the passport had been the whole time

With hundreds of creatures in the polar bear pack, the challenge may prove trickier than it first seems.

And with the current record currently standing at 2 minutes and 49 seconds, can you beat the record?

The latest brainteaser, created by Canine Cottages, challenges the nation to spot the adorable pooch hidden among the pack of polar bears

Adorable little Frenchie Pierre has joined his humans on a trip to the North Pole to visit Santa Paws, but got distracted by the hundreds of polar bears having a Christmas party in the Arctic.

After deciding to join in with the fun and make some new furry friends, he’s got lost in the crowd - and it’s up to you to find him.

Shannon Keary from Canine Cottages said, 'This brainteaser has had us stumped at Canine Cottages HQ! We hope our brainteaser has the public equally as puzzled and gets everyone into the Christmas spirit.'

The adorable little dog can be found tucked in between the polar bears on the right hand side of the image

Another puzzle, created by Great Rail Journeys, challenges the public to spot the eight differences in the two Swiss landscapes.

Both snaps feature a train journey across a mountainous landscape, but while both may look identical, there are hidden differences between the two.

And with a current record of an impressive 58 seconds to beat, the pressure is really on!

The latest brainteaser, created by Great Rail Journeys, challenges the nation to spot the eight differences in he two puzzles

The graphic features the iconic Glacier Express railway, which celebrates its 90th birthday next year.

It has also recently featured on a episode of The World’s Most Scenic Railway Journeys TV series on Channel 5.

The train travels through the Swiss Alps, home to the Matterhorn, the world's most photographed mountain that also appears on the Toblerone packaging.

If you're struggling to find the answer, then take a look at the mountains, buildings and the trees for a clue - and if you're really stuck, you can find the answers circled in red in the image below.

If you're struggling to find the answers, then you can find them circled in red (pictured)

A New Year's Eve-inspired brainteaser has been released to get you in the mood for the upcoming party season.

The puzzle, created by the team from GiftsOnline4U, showcases an ocean of pocket watches which read five minutes to midnight.

However, hidden amongst these clocks is one telling the wrong time, but can you spot it?

According to the creators, the current record to beat is an impressive 9 seconds - so how will you fare?

The brainteaser, created by the team from GiftsOnline4U, challenges puzzles to find the one clock telling the wrong time (pictured)

With hundreds of different colour pocket watches in the mix, the challenge may prove trickier than it first seems.

However, if you're struggling to detect the hidden clock, then try looking for the only one that reads five minutes to two.

Give up? You'll find the sought-after object resides towards the bottom right-hand side of the image.