Heavy rainfall may threaten millions this holiday season as flood warnings are issued along the West and East coasts.

The dreadful weather began Thursday as record rainfall and darkness hit Seattle, Washington.

One of the major storms hit the region that is still at risk for flooding, mudslides and avalanches.

Friday became the wettest day in Seattle in the past 10 years, and the most rain recorded for December 20 since record-keeping at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport began in 1945.

The National Weather Service (NWS) said the airport recorded 3.25 inches of rain Friday, making it also the fifth rainiest day in city history.

The dreadful weather began Thursday as record rainfall and darkness hit Seattle, Washington. A car became stalled in Bellevue, Washington, on Friday

Friday became the wettest day in Seattle (pictured, Friday) in the past 10 years, and the most rain recorded for December 20 since record-keeping at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport began in 1945

Traffic in Renton, Washington, on Friday, had to battle heavy downpours that soaked the region along I-405

One of the major storms hit the region that is still at risk for flooding, mudslides and avalanches

Seattle also broke a daily rainfall record on Thursday with 2.91 inches of precipitation, making it the 11th wettest day recorded at the airport.

'The threat for landslides will continue through the rest of the weekend for areas below 3,000 feet,' the weather service in Seattle said.

'This is due to heavy rains received over the past couple of days, which has increased soil moisture levels.'

The weather service warned drivers not to go through flooded areas as that 'is the cause of most flood related deaths in Washington'.

The low-lying areas of the northern Oregon coast are also at risk for flooding.

Astoria saw 3.42 inches of rain on Friday, breaking a record previously set 113 years ago.

There also remains an increased threat for landslides in western Washington with high levels of soil moisture expected through the weekend. Multiple mudslides were reported Friday.

Snow is also falling in areas above 3,000 feet in elevation. The weather service issued a back country avalanche warning for the Mount Baker area for Saturday.

A high wind watch was issued Sunday afternoon and into Monday morning in Georgia

Monday's travel forecast is depicted in this graphic. Georgia, the Carolinas and Florida will be impacted by the second storm in the Southeast

On Christmas Eve, a mix of rain and snow will hit several states on the West Coast

Friday also broke a record for measured sunlight in Seattle. The University of Washington recorded just 0.37 million Joules of solar radiation, the lowest level of sun energy measured since the university started counting over the past 20 years.

Meanwhile on the East Coast, forecasters warned residents in Atlanta, Georgia, about a second storm that could cause possible flooding and high winds early Monday morning.

'We have issued a High Wind Watch as well as a Flood Watch for most of our counties in central GA and large portions of north GA, including the Atlanta metro,' the service tweeted.

'Travel tomorrow could be difficult at times, so please plan accordingly.'

On Christmas Day, the rain head to Los Angeles as snow moves into Colorado and Utah

More rain is expected to hit parts of California on Thursday, according to this graphic

By Friday, a developing storm in Texas will spread across multiple states bringing heavy rain

A flash flood watch was also issued for southeast South Carolina through Tuesday morning.

Forecasters said a strong storm system is forecast to produce 5 to 8 inches of rain.

'Flooding could occur quickly, especially in low-lying and poor drainage areas. Be prepared for the possibility of widespread street flooding and flooded properties,' forecasters warned.

'Along the South Carolina coast, elevated tides could increase the potential for flash flooding, especially around the time of the high tides on Monday.'