Melbourne Stars captain Glenn Maxwell has marked his return to professional cricket with a man-of-the-match display in his team's 22-run Big Bash League win over Brisbane Heat.

Maxwell blasted 83 off just 39 deliveries in a dominant display at Metricon Stadium on Friday in what was his first match since taking a break from the game for mental health reasons in October.

The allrounder's innings included seven fours and five sixes as the Stars made 7-167 off their 20 overs after being sent in by Heat captain Chris Lynn.

In reply the Heat made a fantastic start through English import Tom Banton, who belted 64 off 35 balls including four massive sixes, but the hosts slumped to their second loss in as many matches by finishing on 8-145.

"I felt really good," Maxwell said.

"I felt like I hadn't missed a beat which was nice. Just felt really comfortable and was watching the ball pretty hard and just trying to hit it.

"I don't think I ever doubted the performance part of it, it was just I suppose the other part of the game that I needed to get right while I was away.

"Didn't have probably the ideal preparation, just a couple of games of club cricket at my local club where the wickets are a bit lower and pretty average.

"It was nice to come out and perform straight away."

The importance of Maxwell's innings was emphasised by Peter Handscomb's 20 off 15 being the next highest score for the visitors.

Banton played a lone hand in the Heat's top order before holing out to Ben Dunk in the outfield off the bowling of Adam Zampa (3-30) after the pair had earlier combined to remove the dangerous Lynn (8).

Matt Renshaw, who was one of six Heat bowlers to claim a single wicket each, did his best to keep the Heat in the contest with a well-made 39 off 29 balls but when he fell to Daniel Worrall (2-21) in the penultimate over, the home team's hopes were extinguished.

"Obviously disappointing to lose. We were in a pretty good position after the first 10 overs," Renshaw said.

"Maxi's one of those players who can do what he did tonight and that's unfortunate none of us could sort of keep up with him."

Friday's game was also a big night for Pakistan quick Haris Rauf.

Plucked from Tasmanian grade cricket as a replacement for injured South African great Dale Steyn, Rauf claimed a wicket with his first delivery in BBL cricket and finished with 2-20 off his four overs.

The Heat will aim to open their account on Sunday when they face the Sydney Sixers at the SCG.

The Stars take on the Hobart Hurricanes in Moe in their next match, also on Sunday.