With just days to go until Christmas, it seems that some of us may be less than excited about the prospect of showing off our homes to friends and family.

This is due to a phenomenon called 'housebarrassment', a term coined to describe the feeling of unease at others seeing the less than perfect state of our homes.

Indeed, 61 per cent of people are embarrassed by at least one aspect of the property they own, according to new research from home improvement store Wickes.

It is the equivalent of 8.78 million homeowners, based on Government figures that claim there is a total of 14.4 million homeowners in England.

The areas of embarrassment among homeowners can cover anything from little scratches and scruffs to dated and tired fixtures.

Will you will feel uneasy or embarrassed about the state of your home this Christmas?

The research suggested that 41 per cent of homeowners wished their homes looked better, while a third admitted to apologising for the way their home looks.

That multiplies out to the equivalent of 5.9 million and 4.7 million homeowners, respectively.

At the same time, more than a third of the 1,002 people surveyed - at 35 per cent - even claimed to feel judged by guests who have been invited around.

Females were more like to feel unease at the appearance of their homes than males, with the percentage at 45 per cent as opposed to 36 per cent.

There are also clear regional divides, according to the research, with those living in the South of England proving to be more home conscious than those in the North of the country, at 55 per cent and 40 per cent respectively.

35 per cent even claimed to feel judged by guests who have been invited around

Sprucing up your kitchen can help avoid suffering from 'Housebarrassment'

The areas of the home that cause the most 'housebarrassment' included bathrooms, which topped the list at 16 per cent, followed by kitchens at 15 per cent, gardens at 10 per cent and cloakrooms at 6 per cent.

Nervousness of these areas also sees Brits admit that they are reluctant to have friends and family to visit. More than half - at 57 per cent - only invite people round once a month or less as they believe that their home will be judged by others.

However, interestingly, 31 per cent of those surveyed admitted to also judging their own friends and families houses when invited around.

While it may be too late to completely replace the avocado bathroom suite before Christmas, there is still time to do touch up some paintwork or declutter rooms with some clever storage.

It means you may avoid the potential embarrassment that can accompany showing off a home during the festive period.

Wickes' Mandy Minichiello, said: 'Our research demonstrates that many people have felt embarrassment about some element of their home.

'We want to help customers understand that anything from a lick of paint or updating your kitchen can make a huge difference to help cure 'housebarrassment'.'