I'm in my mid-twenties and have just started a new job - my second since I went into full-time employment. I have passed my probation and joined the company pension plan.

I don't know a lot about pensions, but I know having one is important - especially for someone in my generation - so have always opted in.

But now I'd like to take a more active role, including making sure my pension only invests in ethical companies. But I don't know the best way of doing this, or if it is even possible through my scheme.

One reader would like to take a more active role in determining the make-up of her pension

How do I found out what I can and can't do and where should I go from there?

I'm also not sure what to do with the pension from my last company (where I worked for just under four years).

Should I leave it where it is, bring it over, or are there any other options? And do I have a time limit?

Jayna Rana, This is Money, replies: Firstly, it's great that you're being proactive about your pension and realise the importance of having one.

Unfortunately, a lot of young people opt out of their company pension when they get their first job, as they'd rather have a higher take-home salary - not fully understanding the long-term implications of this.

Those who are self-employed are probably under the most pressure, as doing the research and taking the time to take out at a self invested personal pension, commonly known as a Sipp, can get quite complicated, especially when it comes to picking funds and looking for the most cost-effective option.

Earlier this month, Vanguard revealed further details for its highly anticipated DIY pension, which will charge only 15p for every £100 invested - making it the cheapest of its kind.

It's also good to hear you'd like to do your bit for the planet by only investing in ethical companies - there has definitely been an upward trend in this in recent years, especially among younger people.

We asked Jason Hollands, of Tilney Investment Management, what to do with your previous company pension(s) and how you can ensure your current one is aligned with your values.

Jason Hollands, of Tilney, says bringing together your old work pensions in one place makes sense

Jason Hollands replies: Today's employment market is very different from those experienced by previous generations.

Working for the same employer for an entire career is now very rare.

Instead, people move jobs more frequently and on the whole the employment market is both a lot more flexible but also less secure.

Projections by the Department of Work & Pensions estimate that the average person will have 11 employers over their working lives.

One outcome of the tendency to change jobs more frequently, is that many of us are quietly assembling sprawling collections of workplace pensions as the years go by, some of which ended up forgotten about as people move homes and forget to notify former employers.

What can I do with all my pension 'pots'?

Research we commissioned found that one in five people admit to have lost track of a pension. This problem is set to continue, now that nearly everyone in the UK is automatically enrolled into a work place pension with each new job. Bringing together your old work place pensions in one place can make a lot of sense.

It is much easier to keep an eye on a single account and the more control you have over your pension savings, the better chance you have of making sure they are on track to deliver you with a decent retirement.

For those with multiple small pension pots scattered around, bringing these together into a Sipp can provide both the benefits of a consolidated account where all your pension investments are in one place and valued at the same time, without sacrificing choice over the investments available.

Sipps allow pensions savers choose between literally thousands of investments from many different companies, with a single account.

How straightforward is consolidating them?

But before you start completing forms to transferring all your past pensions into a Sipp, it is important to do some homework.

Pension transfers are not always straightforward and many older pension can carry penalties or the loss of benefits which might prove worth retaining.

Before you transfer a workplace pension, it is important to find out the transfer value and whether this is the same, or a lot lower, than the valuation that appears on your statements.

One area to be acutely aware of, is the risks of transferring workplace pensions linked to your final salary at the employer, rather than the performance of an investment fund.

Such 'defined benefit' or 'final salary' pensions used to be common place but are now rare and should only be transferred after taking professional advice, since moving out of them involves swapping a high degree of certainty on what you will receive in retirement, for investment risk and far less predictable outcomes.

Can my employer pay into my Sipp?

If you consolidate your pensions into a Sipp, some employers may be prepared to pay into this rather than their own scheme, which means your plan can be taken from job to job in the future.

Ethical fund options A 'long list' of ethical funds, trusts and ETFs aimed at investors wanting to do good while also making money was launched earlier this year by investing platform Interactive Investor. To break through the usual jargon, the firm split the 140-odd options into three categories - 'avoids', 'considers' and 'embraces' - to explain their dominant investing style. The list doesn't rate fund performance, but is an attempt at showing people the full range of ethical investments available and signposting their approach. Some funds also now focus on the UN's sustainable development goal framework. This is a call for action to promote prosperity, while protecting the planet and includes stamping out poverty, improving access to healthcare, clean water and affordable clean energy and tackling social and gender inequality.

This is however at their discretion but even if this isn't possible, it won't stop you transferring their pension into your Sipp at a later date, if that make sense.

How can I make my company pension ethical?

When you start a new job, nearly all companies are obliged to auto-enrol you into workplace pension.

While you are free to opt-out of this, it is unwise to do so, since you are effectively getting 'free money' in the form of both contributions from your employer (as well as yourself) and benefitting from reduce tax.

These workplace plans will typically have a 'default' fund which your contributions will go into unless you choose otherwise.

It is a little bit like everyone being handed a medium sized t-shirt; what will suit most people, might not necessarily fit you and so it is worth considering the other options that will also be available to you, for example, if you want your pension to be invested ethically, or with an approach that seeks to avoid activities that harm the environment.

Can I pick my own investments?

In making the right choices, you can either build your own portfolio, selecting a variety of funds that might cover specific markets or asset classes – such as shares, or bonds – or choose a managed option, where a fund allocates across a variety of markets and asset classes for you.

Many pensions now provide a wide range of options to cater for people who want to take their own decisions, would prefer a single investment fund that does this for them, as well as choices for those who want to apply environmental or ethical criteria.

Your employer may well provide access to a financial adviser if you need help.

If your workplace plan is too limited in what is on offer, your employer might be prepared to contribute into a plan chosen by you, instead, such as a Sipp, as previously mentioned.

These are widely available, can be managed online and provide access to an extensive range of funds and investments.

While the name self invested personal pension suggests you might have to make all the decisions, this is not the case.

Sipps can used by investors who like to make their own decisions, but it is also possible to have your choices within them made with the help of an adviser or they can be used to invested in a managed investment portfolio too.

Setting up a Sipp is pretty straightforward and can take a matter of minutes. You'll need the same sorts of information you would to open and Individual Savings Account, including your National Insurance number.

The harder part is choosing what to invest in, as the options are extensive, so do think about whether or not you need advice or feel comfortable and interested enough to do it yourself, before choosing a plan.