Prince Charles' biographer has claimed that Prince Andrew's early retirement has an upside for Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, because it paves the way for them to set their own rules.

In a move unprecedented in modern times, Prince Andrew, 59, stepped back from royal duties after being 'sacked' by the Prince of Wales, 71, and the Queen, 91, in November over the Epstein scandal.

Now Robert Jobson has suggested that Prince Andrew's 'early retirement' paves the way for the Duke, 35, and Duchess of Sussex, 38, to take an unexpected path in the future.

Speaking on the Heirpod podcast, he said: 'I think with a member of the royal family being effectively retired early, should Harry and Meghan not wish they be part of whole circus... there’s almost a path for them now.

'If they said to Charles when he’s king, "Look we don’t really see ourselves in this type of role, we wanted a different type of role," I think he’d be flexible to that.'

Robert Jobson suggested that Prince Andrew's sacking had paved a path for Prince Harry, 35, and Meghan Markle, 38, to take their own 'path' away from the royal family, should they choose to

He continued: 'There’s no pressure for them now...In terms of defining who they are and what they want to be if they want to spend half their time in America or somewhere else, I don't see that as an issue.'

Discussing the period when the Prince of Wales ascends to the throne, Robert said: 'Prince Charles will try to focus on Prince William's family...but what that means for Prince Harry and Meghan, I don't know.

'I think Prince Charles would be flexible because the core focus would be on William and his family, and Meghan and Harry are further down the totem pole.

Prince Harry and Meghan have been open about their desire to consider moving abroad, with the royals reportedly considering bases in Africa and America.

Prince Andrew was sacked by Prince Charles and the Queen in November after he was sacked from royal duty over Epstein scandal

Robert suggested there was 'no pressure' for Prince Harry and Meghan Markle now, and said there 'wouldn't be a major issue' if the couple wanted to spend 'half their time in America'

The couple are currently having a six-week break from royal duties, during which they will spend Christmas with Meghan's mother Doria Ragland.

In October, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex opened up about struggling with royal life and public scrutiny in the explosive ITV programme Meghan and Harry: An African Journey, in which Meghan revealed not many people have asked if she's 'okay.'

Harry, meanwhile, refused to deny a rift between himself and Prince William, acknowledging, 'we are on different paths at the moment.'

He also described Cape Town in South Africa as 'an amazing place to be able to base ourselves' in an TV interview, but the couple are also said to be considering a move to the US.

The Sussexes are currently on a six-week long break from royal duty and are believed to be in America

Despite being on a 'break' from their work, earlier this month DailyMailTV revealed Meghan is using her break from royal duties to work with a boss at her former Hollywood publicist on a strategy to raise 'tens of millions of dollars' for the foundation she and her husband are setting up.

The Duchess is said to be in 'full work mode' behind the scenes during her and Harry's extended vacation.

She has reportedly been working with PR advisor, fellow American and close friend Keleigh Thomas Morgan on building a U.S. strategy for the charity venture, which has the full name Sussex Royal, The Foundation of the D&D of Sussex.