Two billionaire Arab dynasties who have spent nearly three years secretly battling it out in Britain's divorce courts have seen their legal costs spiral to more than £4million, Mail Online can reveal.

The youngest son of Dubai property tycoon and owner of Highland Spring has acrimoniously split up with the daughter of an eminent Qatari businessman who made her name by designing jewellery to the stars.

Haytham al Tajir, 45, and Noor Al Fardan, 32, have hired the best lawyers money can buy for their bitter dispute with Noor taking on the services of the 'Steel Magnolia' and legendary divorce specialist Baroness Shackleton.

Haytham al Tajir, 45, (left) and his wife Noor Al Fardan, 30, (right) arrive at London's High Court for the latest round in their three-year divorce, in which they have spent £2m each in legal fees

Noor, who is the daughter of a Qatari metals tycoon said to be worth several billion pounds, arrived at the court with her divorce lawyer Fiona Shackleton, nick-named the 'Steele Magnolia'

Haytham's father Mahdi al Tajir, a former ambassador to the UK, is worth an estimated £1.66bn and owns a vast property portfolio, including this £250m property overlooking St James's Park (above)

The couple, who married in a glitzy ceremony in 2012, were thought to have it all as they criss-crossed the globe in private jets, stayed in palatial homes and were driven by chauffeured Rolls Royce.

But that façade came crashing down four years later when Noor fled to London, bought a £15 million Mayfair mansion and sought to divorce Haytham through the British courts.

Both families were keen to keep the separation secret for fear it might embarrass their families, who move in hugely influential circles within the Arab community in both Britain and the Middle East.

But now the cost of their ongoing protracted legal battle – and details of the incredible wealth at their fingertips – can be disclosed.

Noor (pictured with her legal team) and Haytham enjoyed an outwardly gilded married life, crisscrossing the globe in private jets and staying in properties owned by his father

Haytham (seen outside court) were introduced in 2011 by relatives and wed just a year later at great expense, pomp and ceremony where guests stayed at the Four Seasons Hotel in Geneva

A friend of Noor's told MailOnline: 'On paper it was the dream existence, they just went from one luxury residence to the other, enjoying the best of everything. But behind it all, they were having problems from very early on in the marriage. It was difficult to keep up with her, we never knew which country she was going to be in.'

The couple were first introduced in late 2011 by relatives.

Haytham's father Mahdi al Tajir used to advise the former ruler of Dubai, was once the UAE's ambassador to the UK as well as France, and ranks fifth in Scotland's richest man list, with an estimated fortune of £1.66 billion. There is, however, speculation that his wealth is actually double this.

He owns Highland Spring Water and the Park Tower Hotel in Knightsbridge, as well as one of Britain's largest and costliest homes, which has been valued at an around £250 million and is located close to Buckingham Palace.

The couple's enviable life involved moving every few months, spending short periods of time at his father's properties, including Kier House in Scotland (above), the family's main residence

A friend of Noor said the couple were driven exclusively in Rolls Royce cars and waited on hand and foot by an army of servants at the various homes including Chateau-la-Valliere, France

Among the vast array of properties owned by the al Tajir family where the couple holidayed is the Chateau St. Jean in Cap Ferrat (above) situated on the French Riviera

His other properties include Mereworth castle in Kent, Chateau Valliere in Paris, Chateau St Jean in Cap Ferrat on the French Riviera and Keir house in Scotland, a 15,000-acre estate where he spends most of his time.

Noor is the daughter of Qatari billionaire Ali Al Fardan, vice chairman of Alfardan group, which has extensive business interests in property, jewellery, finance and automobiles throughout the Middle East.

Despite her huge wealth, Noor has enjoyed success as a jewellery designer whose clients include Taylor Swift and Nicole Scherzinger

As a jewellery designer for the company, stars including Princess Charlene of Monaco, Anna Friel, Taylor Swift, Nicole Scherzinger and Michele Rodriguez have worn her designs.

Following a whirlwind romance, Haytham and Noor were married in a lavish ceremony in Geneva at the Batiment des Forces Motrices, a stunning performance art venue that was once a power plant.

Circus acrobats and top Arab singers, who were paid £100,000 to perform in a western-style occasion where champagne flowed freely and the bride wore white, provided the entertainment.

Around 300 guests flew in for the 2012 wedding and were put up at the Four Seasons Hotel, which overlooks Lake Geneva. Noor's father paid for everything, including the air tickets of those who did not arrive on private jets.

Just a few weeks earlier, the couple married according to Islamic custom at Noor's family home in Qatar in a ceremony which was attended by relatives, members of the country's ruling elite and close friends.

But, according to sources, the marriage started unravelling early on and soon after the birth of their second child, she bought her own home for an estimated £10 million in Dubai.

Haytham's father, who was born in Dubai and resides in Scotland, has collected houses mostly in the UK for fun over the past three decades including Mereworth Castle in Kent (pictured)

As relations deteriorated further, she flew to London with her two children in a private jet in the summer of 2016.

Noor had told her husband that she was going on a shopping trip but had privately informed friends that she had no plans to return because she was in fear if she remained in Dubai and what might happen if she left him.

She filed for divorce in January 2017 at the High Court in London, kick starting a bitter divorce battle, with Haytham's lawyers even challenging the jurisdiction of the court to hear the case.

Although they were granted a divorce in 2018, the estranged couple are still going through the High Court to settle another matter related to their separation.

Noor still owns the same Mayfair mansion, and lives there with her two children.

Following a small ceremony at Noor's family home in Qatar, the fabulously wealthy couple married at the spectacular wedding venue Batiment des Forces-Motrices in Geneva (pictured)

Spread across seven floors, the Grade II listed building is thought to have inspired Algernon Moncrieff's bachelor pad in Oscar Wilde's 'The Importance of Being Ernest.'

In the late 19th century, Wilde spent much of his time socialising at the Flemings Tavern, which was located directly adjacent to the property and regularly visited it because his friend lived there.

Noor employs what has been described as 'an army of staff' to maintain the house as she devotes her time to her children and her work. Last year, she visited her family in Qatar, the only time she has returned to the Middle East since leaving her husband.

A friend said: 'She doesn't even know how many people work in the house. Money is no object for Noor. Despite her difficulties, she still looks fabulous and leads a very charmed life. She's in a much better place out of this marriage.'

Haytham is also currently in Britain, dividing his time between his father's lavish property in central London and his own country estate.

In 2009, his brother Maher was in the news after being convicted for assaulting his girlfriend at his father's estate in Scotland after she asked for an extra £2,000 in addition to the regular £3,000 monthly allowance she received.