Sydney's light rail has been slammed as 'disastrous' and 'the slowest in the world'.

The new tram system opened a week ago and was swiftly maligned by NSW Labor's transport spokesman Chris Minns as being 'marginally quicker than a horse-drawn carriage'.

The new $2.9billion Sydney light rail is moving commuters from Randwick to Circular Quay in an average of 58 minutes, or twice the time it takes by bus, Mr Minns told Daily Mail Australia in an emailed statement.

Sydney's new tram system has come under fire for being too slow. People can almost run faster

The 2013 Transport for NSW business case summary for the light rail project promised frequent, reliable journey times of 15 minutes from Randwick to the Central, and 34 minutes from Randwick to Circular Quay.

That makes the average speed of a Sydney tram just over 11km per hour.

A horse-drawn carriage travels at about 6.4km per hour when the horse is walking, and faster if trotting according to general knowledge website reference.com.

Sydney's new trams go just over 4km per hour faster than the historic horse and carriage service that walked the route in 1861.

A carriage is only slightly slower than the new Sydney trams, if the horses are walking

The average time taken to go from Randwick to Circular Quay is said to be 58 minutes instead of the 34 minutes originally promised in the business case

A human adult can jog at up to 9.6km/h, according to healthline.com, meaning Sydney passengers can almost get out and run faster.

Sydney's new trams are even slower than Melbourne's Yarra trams which travel at an average speed of 16 kilometres per hour, with the speed only dropping to 11kph in the CBD, ABC news reported in 2017.

Yarra trams started running in 1884 but they are significantly faster than Sydney's trams.

The only trams in the world that go slower than Sydney's light rail are the 46-year-old restored heritage streetcars in El Paso, Texas.

The trams served the US city from 1950 to 1974, and travel at an average speed of just over 10km/h, news.com reported.

By contrast the Baltimore, Maryland, trams, also in the US, whizz passengers around at the relatively rapid 38.6km/h.

The average speed of San Francisco's eBart light rail is 56 km/h. In Denmark the Letbane trams average a similar 56.7 km/h.

Opposition transport spokesman Chris Minns said Sydney's new trams were the slowest and most expensive in the world.

'It's quicker to run the route. It's quicker to catch the train in from Penrith than it is to come into the city on the light rail from the Eastern Suburbs,' he told Daily Mail Australia in an emailed statement.

'It’s also quicker to run the route or cycle it.'

Daily Mail Australia contacted the NSW Liberals for this story but did not receive a response by time of publication.

