Lizzo caused quite a scene when she TWERKED up against Eddie Murphy while wearing a form-fitting green dress in a hilarious new promo for SNL

Eddie has returned to host the show for the first time in 35 years, while Lizzo made her debut as a musical guest to close out an incredible year for the singer.

During one of the two promos, Lizzo channelled Murphy's 1996 remake of The Nutty Professor, stating one of the most iconic lines: 'Hercules!'

You go, girl! Lizzo caused a scene when she TWERKED up against Eddie Murphy while wearing a form-fitting green dress in a hilarious new promo for SNL on Thursday

All the laughter: The singer, 31, laughed her head off after twerking - she is coming off a massive year, following the release of her album Cuz I Love You

The first ad began with Murphy, clad in a gold hoodie with a gold watch and a gold ring, saying he's hosting Saturday Night Live this week with musical guest Lizzo.

Lizzo responds, 'Best night ever,' while SNL cast member Kenan Thompson says, 'Eddie Murphy and Lizzo? Thank you, Santa Claus.'

The second ad began the same way, with Thompson stating, 'We are so excited to have you, man. When I heard, I was like Hell yeah!'

What a trio: Lizzo showed her excitement for being the musical guest alongside host Eddie Murphy in a new promo for this weekend's new episode

Lizzo then adds that, 'When I heard, I was like Yeahhh! Let's go let's go let's go sexual chocolate sexual chocolate woo woo woo' as she twerked next to Murphy.

Murphy added with a smile, 'She is so excited' as Lizzo jumped up and down and clapped, and just as the commercial ended, Lizzo said, 'Hercules!' which sent Murphy, Thompson and unseen crew members into a fit of laughter.

The Nutty Professor was one of Murphy's biggest hits of the 1990s, where he plays a number different characters, including Mama Klump, who at one point in the film encourages her youngest to flex his muscles, exclaiming, 'Hercules Hercules!'

Excited: Murphy added with a smile, 'She is so excited' as Lizzo jumped up and down and clapped while looking stunning in a green form-fitting dress

Murphy was announced as the December 21 host way back in August, marking his return as host for the first time since 1984.

While the musical guest at the time was not revealed at that time, Lizzo was announced in November to make her SNL debut.

The 31 year old singer is coming off a massive year, following the release of her album Cuz I Love You.

Coming up: It was announced in November that Lizzo would make her SNL debut

She also just received eight Grammy Award nominations, becoming this year's most nominated artist.

Her breakthrough hit Truth Hurts was featured in the Netflix movie Someone Great and was added to the deluxe version of Cuz I Love You.

The album was named the fourth best of 2019 by Billboard, and has been named one of the best albums of the year by several other publications as well.

Breakthrough: She also just received eight Grammy Award nominations, becoming this year's most nominated artist

Album: Her breakthrough hit Truth Hurts was featured in the Netflix movie Someone Great and was added to the deluxe version of Cuz I Love You