Tom Latham is confident surprise New Zealand inclusion Tom Blundell can handle the pressure of facing the new ball against Australia despite having no first class experience as an opener.

Blundell has been called into the squad for the Boxing Day Test to replace Jeet Raval, who was dropped after making just two runs across two innings in Perth, continuing a lean run of form.

Blundell has only played two Test matches - both in 2017 - but made an unbeaten 107 on debut when batting at No.8 against the West Indies.

Latham said he was confident the 29-year-old could deliver after an unbeaten half-century in a practice match against a Victorian XI on Sunday.

"Tom's a quality player - he's only played a couple of Tests but he's got a lot of first-class experience behind him and he played beautifully yesterday, so hopefully that will give him some confidence," he said.

Blundell normally keeps wicket but with BJ Watling in the team, will play purely as a batsman.

The two Toms have followed similar pathways.

Latham has been a wicketkeeper at provincial level and in limited overs internationals, while establishing himself as an accomplished Test opener over the last four years.

Even though Blundell has not opened in 55 first class games, Latham believed his new partner had the temperament and technique to perform there.

"I think from a 'keeping point of view, he usually bats in the middle order and he probably faces the new ball at some point as well. But it's obviously going to be at the start of the innings," Latham said.

"So he's a guy we've had in our squad for a long time, the last couple of years and he's a quality player."

Latham backed his fellow batsmen to find form in Melbourne and said New Zealand would relish fast bowler Trent Boult's presence in the spearhead's return from a side strain.

"It's great to have the quality of Trent come back into the side," he said.

"I think we're lucky - we've got a decent amount of bowling stocks at the moment and the guys that can come and replace him are good.

"But to have a world-class bowler come back into our team, it's obviously great for the side and hopefully we'll see Trent back at his best as usual."