The Bachelor's Elly Miles was busted on the dating app Bumble this week, after her rumoured love interest Adam Farrugia was spotted with a profile on the platform.

The blonde nurse, 25, appears to be looking for the man of her dreams online and can be seen wearing a bikini in one of her profile snaps.

It comes after she failed to find love with Matt Agnew on The Bachelor earlier this year.

Two can play that game! The Bachelor's Elly Miles has been busted on the dating app Bumble... after rumoured love interest Adam Farrugia hopped on the platform

While her profile seems light on details, Elly's picture appears to have been taken during her headline-grabbing European getaway in September.

In the picture, she stuns in a floral bikini while soaking up the sun on a beach.

Earlier this month, Love Island Australia's Adam Farrugia was spotted on Bumble, after he and Elly sparked romance rumours.

His profile describes him as a 'mummy's boy' and contains shirtless pictures of the reality TV star.

Single and ready to mingle? Earlier this month, Love Island Australia's Adam Farrugia (pictured) was spotted on Bumble, after he and Elly sparked romance rumours

In November, Adam and Elly set tongues wagging when they stepped out together for The Iconic's 2019 Summer Show in Brisbane.

Posing together ahead of the fashion show, the former reality stars both seemed happy to be accompanying one another to the event.

However, their shared manager told Daily Mail Australia at the time that they were 'just mates.'

Rumours! In November, Adam and Elly set tongues wagging when they stepped out together for The Iconic's 2019 Summer Show in Brisbane

They want it to happen! Some photos from the event sent fans into overdrive, with many begging them to date after both failing to find love on TV

Some photos from the event sent fans into overdrive, with many begging them to date after both failing to find love on TV.

'Okay but pls [please] date,' wrote one person, while another added, 'omg it's my two favourites oh my gawd'.

One person simply wrote 'yes yes yes', adding a love heart emoji, while another fan claimed they 'would ship this'.

'They would be so cute together,' added another fan, while someone else wrote, 'Yayaya this has to be a thing.'