She split with her AFL star husband Jimmy Bartel in August after five years of marriage.

And on Friday, Nadia Bartel appeared to be having a somewhat tense phone conversation as she stepped out in Melbourne.

The fashion designer, 34, was spotted roaming the street and growing increasingly agitated throughout the conversation.

Is everything okay? Nadia Bartel (pictured) appeared to be having a rather tense phone call as she stepped out in Melbourne on Friday

Annoyed: She was spotted roaming the street and growing increasingly agitated throughout the conversation

The mother-of-two held her phone in her hands and appeared to be exasperated as she spoke through her wireless earphones.

At one stage, Nadia appeared to have been having an argument with the person on the other end.

She was dressed in black sport tights, a white jumper and matching coloured pair of sneakers.

Bad news? Nadia held her phone in her hands and appeared to be exasperated as she spoke through her wireless earphones

Unimpressed: Nadia was dressed in black sport tights, a white jumper and matching coloured pair of sneakers

The designer's blonde locks were left out and she went makeup free for the outing.

Meanwhile, Nadia confirmed her split from AFL star husband Jimmy, 36, in August this year, after months of speculation.

Following the split, the fashion blogger said her priority was to look after their two young sons, Aston, four, and Henley, one.

Getting worked up: At one stage, Nadia appeared to have been having an argument with the person on the other end

Upsetting: She wore a tense expression as she spoke on the phone while walking around her neighbourhood

She told The Herald Sun at the time: 'It's been a very difficult month for me and the boys. Although I'm heartbroken, I don't want to comment specifically on what's been reported about Jim's trip to the UK as I don't think that is in anyone's interests.'

'My single focus now is to continue to protect, care and provide for my two beautiful boys as this is a personal matter. I am so thankful for my very supportive family and friends.'

The retired footballer's new romance with Lauren Mand was exposed just days after Nadia confirmed their separation on August 15.

At the time of their split, it was widely reported that Jimmy and Lauren were in a 'long-term relationship' that Nadia had discovered through 'text messages'.

It's over: Nadia confirmed her split from AFL star husband Jimmy, 36, in August this year, after months of speculation. Pictured with their sons Aston, four, and Henley, one