By Hideyuki Sano

TOKYO, Dec 20 (Reuters) - Japan's Nikkei share average dipped on Friday as investors took profits, especially in large caps, and awaited more clarity on a U.S.-China trade deal announced last week.

The Nikkei share average fell 0.20% to 23,816.63, while the broader Topix lost 0.18% to 1,733.07, with the Topix core 30 of the biggest firms falling 0.56%. For the week, the Nikkei fell about 0.9% after three weeks of gains.

Investors chose to book profits ahead of the year-end holiday after Japanese shares hit a 14-month high earlier this week on news of the tentative trade deal being finalised between Washington and Beijing.

Still, with a generally optimistic mood in the market underpinning many small caps, advancers outnumbered decliners by a ratio of about 5 to 4. Turnover jumped to 2.3 trillion yen in the main board, about 10% above the long-term average.

"We expect the market to continue to rally next year as we expect corporate sales to pick up," said Hiroshi Watanabe, an economist at Sony Financial Holdings.

"So far, the Nikkei's rally has been driven by a rise in multiples. Next year, it will be led more by earnings growth."

SoftBank Group Corp, which has surged over 10% in the past month, gave up 0.6%.

Sony Corp, one of the strongest performers over the past month, dropped 1.7%.

Among big technology names, robot maker Fanuc lost 2.2%, while Keyence shed 0.6%.

Carmakers were hit by the dollar's retreat overnight from a near six-month high against the yen. Toyota Motor Corp and Nissan Motor shed 1.1% each, while Suzuki Motor Corp and Mazda Motor Corp both dropped 0.8%.

Nuflare Technology Inc dropped 9.0% after Toshiba Corp said it had no intention of accepting Hoya Corp's sweeter bid for Nuflare or raising its own bid.

Toshiba and Hoya have been competing for the ownership of Nuflare, which is currently owned 52.4% by Toshiba.

Toshiba dropped 0.1%, while Hoya ended up 0.1%.

Homebuilder Hosoda Corp soared 17.1% after condominium builder Haseko Corp announced a tender offer on Hosoda. Haseko ended flat. (Reporting by Hideyuki Sano; Editing by Rashmi Aich and Subhranshu Sahu)