Jessika Power has hit back at trolls after she was 's**t-shamed' over her sex life.

The Married At First Sight star took to Instagram on Friday to share a post insisting that she's content with people not liking her.

The 28-year-old wrote: 'I'm too old to worry about who likes me and who dislikes me. If you love me, I love you. If you support me, I support you.'

'If you hate me, I don't care': On Friday, MAFS' Jessika Power (pictured) hit back at trolls after 'being s**t-shamed'

The blonde bombshell added: 'If you hate me, I don't care. Life goes on with or without you.'

Earlier this week she told Daily Mail Australia she is focusing on 'finding herself' and 'self-love', and joked that she is not as promiscuous as people believe.

'I've probably only slept with like 14 people,' Jessika claimed on Monday, admitting she spent six years in a committed relationship before finding fame.

The 28-year-old wrote: 'I'm too old to worry about who likes me and who dislikes like me. If you love me, I love you. If you support me, I support you. If you hate me, I don't care.'

Jessika continued: 'I'm looking forward to Christmas in Cairns with my family and I'm on a man ban. I'm staying single in 2020 and want to focus on myself and self-love.'

The reality star admitted that despite being linked to a never-ending list of men throughout the year, she has mostly just shared a drink or quick kiss with them.

'Before my love life was in the public eye, I'd go on dates, sometimes two in a week. That's what dating is. Finding out who you like,' she added.

Just a kiss! 'Before my love life was in the public eye, I'd go on dates, sometimes two in a week. That's what dating is. Finding out who you like,' she added

Chaste: 'I've probably only slept with like 14 people,' Jessika claimed on Monday, admitting she spent six years in a committed relationship before finding fame

'But now I'm constantly being s**t-shamed, and everybody in Australia seems to think I'm a w***e.

'I'm constantly getting messages from older women saying horrible things, as if they haven't been on multiple dates before.'

Jessika became one of the most hated people in the country following her controversial time on Married At First Sight, during which she had an 'affair' with fellow contestant Dan Webb.