Markell Deshaun Barnes, 19, is charged with one third-degree felony count of attempted armed robbery and one count of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon

An armed robber who face-planted into a door as he fled a Pizza Hut in New Mexico left DNA evidence behind - which led has police to arrest a suspect.

Markell Deshaun Barnes, 19, is charged with one third-degree felony count of attempted armed robbery and one count of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, according to a release from the Las Cruces Police Department.

Both charges stem from robberies that occurred on June 25, 2019.

According to police, the first robbery occurred at the Giant gas station located at 1865 University Ave at approximately 12.15am.

The second incident took place at around 10.30pm at a Pizza Hut located at 2205 Missouri Ave. With both robberies there were no injuries reported.

Scroll down for video

Charges stem from robberies that occurred on June 25, 2019: one at a Giants gas station at approximately 12.15am and the other at a Pizza Hut at 10.30pm

Following the second robbery, police suspected that the two crimes were committed by the same person.

At the Pizza Hut, police looked over surveillance footage where they learned that the suspect ran into a door that had already been locked for the evening.

Surveillance video from inside the eatery shows the suspect crashing into the door before retreating in the opposite direction.

The suspect is wearing a black hoodie in the brief clip.

At the Pizza Hut, police looked over surveillance footage where they learned that the suspect ran into a door that had already been locked for the evening

Surveillance video from inside the eatery shows the suspect crashing into the door before retreating in the opposite direction. DNA from the door was used to identify Barnes

Police then swabbed the door for DNA evidence and eventually used CODIS - the Combined DNA Index System - to determine that the sample belonged to Barnes.

A warrant was issued for Barnes arrest following the revelation and the suspect was detained last week by police in Albuquerque.

Barnes has since been transferred to the Dona Ana County Detention Center where he is currently being held without bond.

Further charges are pending against Barnes for the first robbery at the Giant gas station.