Singer-songwriter Lana Del Rey is delving into a new artistic forum.

The six-time Grammy nominated star, known for having a stylized cinematic quality to her music while tackling themes of tragic romance, glamour and melancholy, announced plans to release a spoken word album of 'freestyle poetry.'

The album will coincide with the release of her upcoming printed collection of poetry called Violet Bent Backwards Over The Grass.

Scroll down to video

New endeavor: Lana Del Rey, 34, announced plans to release a spoken word album in an Instagram video that she posted on Thursday, December 19

Del Rey, 34, took to Instagram to announce the project and let fans know that the plan is for the album to cost 'around a dollar.'

'I just love the idea that thoughts are meant to be shared and that they were priceless in some way,' she explained.

She also announced half of the proceeds of the album 'will benefit Native American organizations around the country' in an effort to' preserve their rights and to help keep their land in tact.'

Her plan: Del Rey also shared that the album will cost 'around a dollar' and that half the proceeds will benefit Native American organizations around the country

Del Rey said the decision to donate to Native American rights organizations was motivated, in part, by her work delving into the history of the American experience.

'I had wanted to do it because in doing my own work in connecting to my family lineage, I was encouraged to also try and connect with the country's lineage—this was a while ago—and it kind of informed the next album that I've been working on,' she said.

'It's not particularly polished. It's a bit more gritty, and I hope that you enjoy it. It's kind of freestyle poetry, just out loud,' she said of the spoken word album.

Spin-off: The album will coincide with the release of her upcoming printed collection of poetry called Violet Bent Backwards Over The Grass

'I know it's an unusual choice, and I have no reasoning for it other than it just feels right to me,' she said of her new project.

Del Rey's spoken word album will be released on January 4, 2020.

During the selfie video, she also hinted that the book of poetry could be delayed due to some production issues with the hand-binding process.