He's one of Hollywood's hottest leading men, and on Wednesday, he turned 56 years young.

Brad Pitt rung in another voyage around the sun with family in tow, according to a report from E! News, as the actor and his three younger children with ex-wife Angelina Jolie reportedly spent his special day at his residence in Los Angeles, California.

'Brad spent the day at his home in Hollywood....His younger kids stopped by for a visit,' an eyewitness told the outlet, before mentioning that the children then left with their bodyguard to go 'straight back to Angelina's house.'

Leading man: Brad Pitt rung in another voyage around the sun with family in tow, as the actor and his three younger children spent his special day at his residence on Wednesday; pictured September 18, 2019 at the Ad Astra premiere in LA

Another source had previously informed E! that Pitt will 'spend part of the holidays with the kids in LA.'

'He will see them for his birthday and for Christmas Eve,' the insider specified.

'The kids will come over to Brad's house and spend the day with him. They have some traditions where they eat and exchange gifts. They play music and just hang out.'

'Brad always wants to make it special for them and loves to see the excitement in their eyes,' the source continued. 'He tries to get them thoughtful gifts and something for them to experience. The most important thing is just being together and being a family. He's excited to see them and have them be with him at home. That's really the only thing he wants.'

'He will see them for his birthday and for Christmas Eve,' an insider specified; seen here in September in Los Angeles

Brad and Angelina share six children — Maddox, 18, Pax, 16, Zahara, 14, Shiloh, 13, and twins Knox and Vivienne, 11 — and while the source maintained that all of them were invited to celebrate the holidays and birthday with Pitt, 'probably only the three youngest will go.'

Sons Maddox and Pax are not expected to attend, and neither is daughter Zahara.

Maddox has been estranged from his dad since 2016, after they allegedly got into an altercation on a private jet to LA, Us Weekly reported.

Although Brad was cleared of any wrongdoing, the alleged incident caused the strained relationship between father and son.

It is also the reported reason that led Angelina to file for divorce from Brad following a two year marriage and 11 years together.

Pitt and Jolie were first linked together in 2005, when they worked together on the film Mr. & Mrs. Smith, and confirmed their relationship shortly after Pitt's divorce from Jennifer Aniston was finalized.

Big family: Brad and Angelina Jolie share six children — Maddox, Pax, Zahara (not pictured), Shiloh, and twins Knox and Vivienne; seen here at LAX in 2014

Brad and Angelina filed for divorce in 2016, beginning a long negotiation process with regard to assets and custody of their six children

Brad and Angelina themselves did not wed until 2014, and subsequently filed for divorce in 2016.

After tense proceedings, the pair eventually reached a custody agreement in 2018, and were declared legally single in April of this year.

Pitt, an Oscar-winning producer for the 2013 film 12 Years A Slave, is nominated this year in the Best Supporting Actor category for both Golden Globe and SAG Awards for his role in the Quentin Tarantino film Once Upon A Time… In Hollywood.

He also this year played the lead role in the sci-fi drama Ad Astra opposite Tommy Lee Jones, and has at least two other upcoming projects as an actor, including a sequel to his 2013 zombie epic World War Z.