She's getting ready for the holidays with her one-year-old daughter Stormi.

And as she preps, Kylie Jenner, 22, took to her Instagram in a now deleted post to say she was excited for the holidays and to show off her big sister Kim Kardashian's new Skims set.

The 'self-made' billionaire showed off her massive closet in the background while posing in the mirror in the all-black three piece set.

Showing off: Kylie Jenner showed off her landscaped body on Thursday evening while sporting the cozy Skims set from her sister Kim Kardashian's line

Massive closet: While showing off her set, she gave a preview of her closet some could only dream of

The mother-of-one got up close and personal as she showed off her landscaped curves in the mirror.

She modeled the black knit crop top with the matching pants that gave a glimpse of her toned stomach.

To complete the cozy look, she warmed up in a black knit robe from the collection.

Close up: She gave a closeup of her face while showing off the black knit crop top

Promotion: To complete the cozy look, she warmed up in a black knit robe from the Skims collection

Before her modeling moment, she shared a series of photos of her posing outside in her backyard in an all-black Chanel ensemble.

She is seen propped up on the railing of the patio as she showed off her Chanel top and black leggings.

Kylie kept the few pictures on her story and deleted the photos from her grid where she revealed how excited she is for Christmas.

Different angle: Kylie wrote in the little clip that she 'lives in' the new solution-wear line from her famous sister

The closet: Her closet had the layout of a retail story that displayed all of her lavish luggage on the top shelves

The youngest of the Kardashian-Jenner clan has been busy decking the halls this season as she gears up for the fun for her toddler, Stormi.

She has been sharing her over-the-top holiday decor on social media as she decorates her massive Christmas trees and sets out little trinkets from Target all throughout her home.

'Over here making magic,' she said recently while decorating her home. She went on to explain that she is doing white ornaments for her massive Christmas tree that looks like it's covered in fresh fallen snow.

Looking back: Kylie appeared to model on her back patio as she showed off her head-to-toe black ensamble

Chic: She sported a black Chanel sweater with a pair of slimming black leggings for her casual photoshoot

Massive tree: She recently shared her massive tree being put up as she inches closer to Christmas