There's less than a week to go until Christmas.

And on Thursday, Diane Kruger was spotted doing some shopping in a wintry New York City.

The actress, 43, was all bundled up against the cold as she strode with her purchases through Manhattan's SoHo.

Errands: There's less than a week to go until Christmas. And on Thursday, Diane Kruger was spotted bundled up against the cold as she did some shopping in a wintry New York City

Kruger had stopped at a Prada boutique on her retail expedition judging from the large store bag she carried.

The Troy star was dressed in a zipped up black jacket and white trousers that she wore tucked into a pair of brown and white ankle boots.

She had a peaked cap pulled down over her blonde hair and wore black and white patterned mittens.

The German-born beauty was accompanied by her mother Maria-Theresa Heidkrüger who kept warm in a large black overcoat and colorful scarf.

Christmas shopping: Kruger, 43, had stopped at a Prada boutique on her retail expedition in Manhattan's SoHo, judging from the large store bag she carried

Casually stylish: The actress, as accompanied by her mother Maria-Theresa Heidkrüger, was dressed in a zipped up black jacket and white trousers that she wore tucked into a pair of boots

Two generations: Kruger had a peaked cap pulled down over her blonde hair and wore black and white patterned mittens. Her mom kept warm in a large black overcoat and colorful scarf

It will be Kruger's second Christmas as a mother herself.

Her daughter with partner Norman Reedus turned one last month.

The Inglorious Basterds actress and the Walking Dead actor have not publicly revealed their child's name and are fiercely protective of her.

Back in October, Kruger did share a rare photo of her little girl, showing the tot from behind, and describing her in the Instagram caption as 'My everything.'

The couple met on the set of the film Sky in 2015 and went public with their relationship in 2017.

Reedus is also a father to son Mingus, 20, whom he shares with his former partner, the supermodel Helena Christensen.

Her love: It will be Kruger's second Christmas as a mother herself. Her daughter with partner Norman Reedus turned one last month and in October she shared this rare photo of her child