The use of Taser stun guns by police forces in England and Wales reached a record high last year, new figures show.

The weapons were fired on 2,500 occasions between April 1 2018 and March 31 2019, which is thought to be the highest number recorded.

Tasers – which deliver a high-voltage electric shock – were deployed in 23,000 incidents in the 12 months to the end of March, according to the Home Office.

In most cases, the devices were aimed at a suspect without being fired.

Tasers – which deliver a high-voltage electric shock – were deployed in 23,000 incidents in the 12 months to the end of March, according to the Home Office

The deployment figure is up by more than a third on the year to March 2018 and double the 2016 total.

The Home Office is providing funding to allow an extra 10,000 police officers to carry Tasers.

Home Secretary Priti Patel announced plans in September to hand the stun guns to an additional 10,000 frontline police officers,and officials believe it will mean every beat bobby who wants a Taser will be able to carry one.

Miss Patel said: 'I'm giving chief constables the resources to dramatically increase the number of their officers who carry Tasers. They keep us safe and now I'm giving them what they need to keep themselves safe on the job.'

Human rights groups about escalating street violence but the announcement was welcomed by the Police Federation, which represents rank-and-file officers.

Its chairman John Apter said: 'The Home Secretary recently said that her top priority is the safety of police officers, so it is heartening to know our call for ring-fenced funding for Tasers has been heard and I welcome such positive and decisive action.

'Officers are telling me daily they are feeling vulnerable and often isolated due to the lack of this vital protective equipment which has saved lives and prevented serious injuries.'

The weapons – also known as Conductive Energy Devices (CED) – were first trialled in UK police forces in 2003, and a roll-out to all forces was completed in 2013.