The founder of an Australian holistic health empire has revealed the rules she swears by to keep her gut in peak condition, making her skin radiant, energy higher and digestion smoother.

Carla Oates, 45, who is the brains behind Sydney probiotic brand The Beauty Chef, believes wellness starts from the inside out, particularly from the gut which is directly linked to mental health, skin conditions, digestion and the immune system.

Prolonged problems in the gut lead to arthritis, hormone imbalances, weight gain, chronic fatigue and even the development of cancer.

Sufficient sleep is connected to good gut health, so getting a proper night's rest of roughly eight hours is vital to reduce the risk of brain fog, fatigue and joint pain.

Fermented food dramatically increases the levels of immune-boosting probiotics in the gut, so snacking on things like sauerkraut, kombucha and kimchi, a Korean dish of salted vegetables, will improve your digestion, stamina and skin.

Sydney business woman Carla Oates (pictured) is the brains behind Sydney probiotic brand The Beauty Chef; she believes wellness starts from the inside out, particularly from the gut

1. THE DANGERS OF PROCESSED SUGARS

Carla is well versed in the negative effects of poor nutrition, having struggled with eczema as a child and later witnessing her daughter experience the same condition.

'I guess from a very young age I I understood the power of food as a medicine and how what we eat can have a profound effect on our health, well-being and our skin,' she told Body and Soul's podcast, Healthy-ish.

Reducing your intake of processed food and limiting refined sugars causes an almost instant improvement in gut health, as good bacteria begin to grow and inflammation decreases.

Seven simple tricks to improve your gut health today 1. Lower stress levels - through meditation, walking, getting a massage, decreasing caffeine intake or spending time with friends. 2. Get more sleep - prioritise seven to eight hours of proper rest each night. 3. Eat slower - by chewing food more thoughtfully. 4. Stay hydrated - by drinking a minimum of two litres of water throughout the day. 5. Take a prebiotic or probiotic - to boost the growth of good bacteria in the gut. 6. Check for food intolerance - particularly if you have symptoms like cramping, bloating, abdominal pain, nausea or diarrhoea. 7. Improve your diet - by reducing the amount of processed sugars and high-fat foods you eat, switching packaged meals for whole grains and fibre-rich fruit. Source: Healthline

2. THE IMPORTANCE OF SLEEP

When the body is deprived of sleep, bad bacteria in the gut pump toxins which cause tiredness, brain fog, memory loss and inflammation, which can be responsible for chronic conditions like arthritis and type 2 diabetes over time.

Carla reveals 90 percent of your serotonin - the 'feel good' hormone - is made in the gut, meaning a lack of sleep triggers an automatic reduction in serotonin levels.

Prolonged lack of serotonin can cause anxiety, depression, low energy, negative mood swings, intense food cravings and a decreased libido., so it's vital to prioritise an average of eight hour's solid rest every night.

When the body is deprived of sleep, bad bacteria in the gut pump toxins which cause tiredness, brain fog, memory loss and inflammation (stock image)

WHAT IS THE ULTIMATE ROUTINE FOR A GOOD NIGHT'S REST? 1. Introduce wind down time: Start with reducing your exposure to blue light late at night, which means turning off the TV and switching your phone off at least half an hour before bedtime. Blue light from screens interferes with melatonin levels in the body, which is the hormone responsible for regulating day and night cycles. Light decreases the amount of melatonin produced and tells the body to prepare for being awake. Switching phones to night mode or wearing blue blocker glasses will reduce the amount of blue light hitting your eyes. 2. Set the temperature: Somewhere around 23 degrees Celsius is considered the optimal temperature for sleep. 3. Eat early: Sit down to dinner before 7pm to give the body time to properly digest your last meal before bed. During sleep, the body is hard at work with cellular repair, hormone production and general recovery, so confine digestion to waking hours to avoid putting your system into overdrive. 4. Hit the hay before 11pm: According to Ms Kringoudis, every hour of sleep before midnight counts as two - so aim to make it to bed between 10pm and 11pm for maximum benefits. 5. Use supplements: Magnesium, melatonin or valerian root tablets, chamomile tea and lavender pillow spray are great additions to a nighttime routine to help you unwind quicker. Source: Nat Kringoudis

Fermented foods like kimchi (pictured) create healthy bacterial diversity and increase the volume of probiotics in the gut

3. HOW FERMENTED FOOD CAN HELP

'I did some research into gut health and the benefits of eating lacto-fermented, probiotic foods for gut health and skin health such as eczema,' Ms Oates previously told Daily Mail Australia.

Fermented foods like sauerkraut, kombucha, kefir and kimchi create healthy bacterial diversity and increase the volume of probiotics in the gut, improving digestion, skin as well as hair and nail strength.

A diet rich in whole grains, fresh fruit, vegetables and pulses is also essential for maintaining good gut health.