She made a name for herself on the beloved television musical phenomenon Glee, and has the pipes to back it up.

Singer and actress Lea Michele is ringing in the holidays this year with three special yuletide-themed concerts, entitled Christmas in NYC, the first of which took place Thursday night at the at the Concert Hall at New York Society for Ethical Culture on Manhattan's Upper West Side in New York City.

Michele, 33, was aglow onstage as she sang carols and more, dressed in a beautiful black partially sheer sequinned dress.

Holiday star: Lea Michele is ringing in the holidays this year with three special yuletide-themed concerts, entitled Christmas in NYC, the first of which took place Thursday night in New York

Michele looked elegant and tasteful in her concert look, which featured a low cut V-neck and a pattern along the sheer long sleeves.

Her maxi dress had a low hem, and she paired it with black boots.

Lea had a simple and understated makeup look, and wore her brunette hair down and parted at the middle.

The multi-hyphenate performer enthused about the performance on her social media, posting to both her Instagram Stories and feed both leading up to the show and afterward, thanking those who attended.

In her element: Michele, 33, was aglow onstage as she sang carols and more

Belting it: She was dressed in a beautiful black partially sheer sequinned dress

She uploaded a beautiful alternative image with information about the show, dressed in glorious red taffeta gown.

The concert series is in support of Michele's Christmas album, titled Christmas in the City, which released in late October.

And the album and concert series isn't the only way Lea has been getting into the holiday spirit — earlier this month saw the premiere of her TV movie Same Time, Next Christmas on ABC, a holiday romance taking place in Hawaii.

Chic: Michele looked elegant and tasteful in her concert look, which featured a low cut V-neck and a pattern along the sheer long sleeves

Holiday cheer: Lea had a simple and understated makeup look, and wore her brunette hair down and parted at the middle

Making magic: Lea was clearly enjoying herself onstage Thursday

Lea will be celebrating her first Christmas as a wife this year, after marrying husband Zandy Reich in March of this year.

She and Zandy have already gotten a jumpstart on the season on a personal level as well, starting their gift exchanges early, as told to People Magazine.

Aside from Glee, Michele has found success in other TV pursuits such as Scream Queens, as well as on the Broadway stage, in acclaimed musicals like Spring Awakening.

The multi-hyphenate performer enthused about the performance on her social media: She posted to both her Instagram Stories and feed both leading up to the show and afterward