As her movie Bombshell gets ready to open nationwide on Friday against Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker, Margot Robbie revealed she has never seen any Star Wars movie.

The 29 year old actress was promoting Bombshell, where she plays Kayla Popisil, on Jimmy Kimmel Live, when the host asked if she was aware her movie opened against The Rise of Skywalker.

While Bombshell opened in limited release last weekend, where it fared quite well, its nationwide opening puts it against The Rise of Skywalker, which has been tracking for a box office debut upwards of $200 million this weekend.

No Star Wars: As her movie Bombshell gets ready to open nationwide on Friday against Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker, Margot Robbie revealed she has never seen any Star Wars movie

Skywalker: The 29 year old actress was promoting Bombshell, where she plays Kayla Popisil, on Jimmy Kimmel Live, when the host asked if she was aware her movie opened against The Rise of Skywalker

When asked if she was aware her movie, which depicts the women who banded together to take on the toxic Fox News chairman Roger Ailes, Robbie made the surprising admission.

‘I’ve never seen Star Wars. I’ve never seen any of them,' Robbie added, revealing that when she tells people, they react quite strongly.

'After a couple of years it didn’t happen, and it really upsets people that I haven’t seen them. It particularly infuriates my husband,' she said, referring to Tom Ackerley, who she married in 2016.

Margot's Bombshell: When asked if she was aware her movie, which depicts the women who banded together to take on the toxic Fox News chairman Roger Ailes, Robbie made the surprising admission

Never Star Wars: ‘I’ve never seen Star Wars. I’ve never seen any of them,' Robbie added, revealing that when she tells people, they react quite strongly

Kimmel then proceeded to quiz Robbie a bit, asking who Luke Skywalker’s father was, but a confident Robbie added, ‘That I know, it’s Darth Vader, right?’

She says the most she knows about Star Wars is from a famous Eddie Izzard sketch about a Death Star Canteen.

This isn't the first time Robbie has admitted to never watching a Star Wars movie, revealing the tidbit while doing press with Leonardo DiCaprio and Brad Pitt for Once Upon a Time in Hollywood.

Knowledge: She says the most she knows about Star Wars is from a famous Eddie Izzard sketch about a Death Star Canteen

Star Wars trivia: Kimmel then proceeded to quiz Robbie a bit, asking who Luke Skywalker’s father was, but a confident Robbie added, ‘That I know, it’s Darth Vader, right?'

When MTV's Josh Horowitz asked all of the stars which classic movies they haven't seen (Pitt hasn't seen Gone With the Wind and DiCaprio hasn't seen The Sound of Music), Robbie admitted to never seeing any Star Wars movies.

'I've never seen any Star Wars. And I kind of don't watch it now just because it infuriates people so much,' Robbie said in the July interview.

'Like how? How have you not watched any Star Wars? And I kinda wanna see how long I can make it,' Robbie added.

Interview: 'I've never seen any Star Wars. And I kind of don't watch it now just because it infuriates people so much,' Robbie said in the July interview

Classics: When MTV 's Josh Horowitz asked all of the stars which classic movies they haven't seen (Pitt hasn't seen Gone With the Wind and DiCaprio hasn't seen The Sound of Music), Robbie admitted to never seeing any Star Wars movies

Robbie will kick off the new year with a bang, returning as Harley Quinn from 2016's Suicide Squad in Birds of Prey: And the Fantabulous Emancipation of Harley Quinn.

She will be joined by Mary Elizabeth Winstead as Huntress, Jurnee Smolett-Bell as Black Canary and Rosie Perez as Renee Montoya, who all team up to save a young girl from a crime lord.

She is also attached to star as Maid Marian from Robin Hood lore in Marian, and the iconic doll Barbie.

Coming soon: Robbie will kick off the new year with a bang, returning as Harley Quinn from 2016's Suicide Squad in Birds of Prey: And the Fantabulous Emancipation of Harley Quinn