Shanina Shaik put her legs on show when she stepped out at Sydney's famous Bondi Beach on Friday.

The 28-year-old Victoria's Secret model donned a white shirt, which she wore unbuttoned and knotted at the waist.

She teamed it with a pair of tiny cream shorts, and black pointy-toe stilettos with mesh panelling and a striped foot strap.

Getting the pins out: Shanina Shaik put her legs on show when she stepped out at Sydney's famous Bondi Beach on Friday

The stunning star carried a small black handbag and accessorised with layered bracelets and chic cat-eye sunglasses.

Her long, dark brown hair was worn in loose waves and swept over to one side, and she showed off her flawless complexion with natural-looking makeup.

Proving money is no object, Shanina's shoes and handbag were both by Fendi, with price tags of $1450 and $3850, respectively.

Flawless: Last week, Shanina revealed the five beauty products she uses to stay feeling fresh and hydrated on long haul flights

Last week, Shanina revealed the five beauty products she uses to stay feeling fresh and hydrated on long haul flights ahead of her trip back home to Melbourne for Christmas.

Taking to Instagram Stories on Friday, Shanina shared a make-up free selfie from her seat on the plane with the caption: 'A good night sleep tonight... I'll wake up in Australia.'

She then revealed the five products she keeps on hand to ensure she stays hydrated, captioning the post: 'Staying hydrated during my flight is so important for your skin.'

Fresh-faced: Taking to Instagram Stories on Friday, Shanina shared a make-up free selfie from her seat on the plane

She uses Elizabeth Arden's Eight Hour Cream - a cult product which sells at a rate of one per minute globally.

The $28 multi-purpose balm has been a hero item for the American cosmetics company for decades.

SkinCeuticals Phloretin CF serum, which retails for $210, is another product the model swears by as part of her in-flight beauty regimen, designed to firm and brighten the skin.

Skin secrets: She revealed the five products she keeps on hand to ensure she stays hydrated, captioning the post: 'Staying hydrated during my flight is so important for your skin'

Dr Barbara Sturm Anti-Aging Serum is another staple product that's part of her beauty essentials, but it doesn't come cheap at $505 a bottle.

Shanina also uses 100 per cent Virgin Coconut Oil Daily Hydration Vegan Salve - another multi-purpose item that promotes hydration.

Berocca is also included in her in-flight hydration essentials, helping to provide her with energy, particularly after a long-haul flight.