Ashley Graham posed nude for husband Justin Ervin in a shoot both documented on Instagram Thursday.

'Last shoot of the year with the love of my life, growing the love of our life,' the 32-year-old beauty said alongside of a shot of herself sitting naked on a stool, while Ervin aimed the camera in her direction.

Ashley worked on the pictorial with Ervin, her cinematographer husband of nine years, and makeup artist Katie Jane Hughes.

Elegant: Ashley Graham, 32, posed nude for husband Justin Ervin in a shoot both documented on Instagram Thursday

The empowering social media post also featured a shot of Ashley and her spouse looking at shots in the camera.

The shot received plaudits from fellow model Emily Ratajkowski, comic Amy Schumer and celebrity trainer Kira Stokes.

The Lincoln, Nebraska native last week said on the social media site that she's 'figured out this whole pregnancy thing' and relishing the last third of her pregnancy via a regimen of 'working out, yoga, acupuncture and lymphatic massages.'

In the shot, Ashley was practicing yoga in a two-piece ensemble, and had a body positive message for her 9.7 million followers.

Couple goals: The empowering social media post also featured a shot of Ashley and her spouse looking at shots in the camera

Living her best life: Ashley was practicing yoga in a two-piece ensemble, and had a body positive message for her 9.7 million followers last week

Help from her friends: Ashley said that fellow celeb moms including Serena Williams and Amy Schumer have given her sage advice on what to expect while you're expecting

'Throughout my pregnancy so far I've gained 50lbs,' said Ashley, who became Sports Illustrated's first-ever plus-size cover girl three years ago. 'And the best part is, I don't care! I have never felt better, and I am so thankful that my body and son have allowed me to be as mobile and flexible as I have been.'

Graham earlier this month spoke with Vogue about the open dialogue she's had with peers in regards to lovemaking while pregnant.

'I've been literally asking every single one of my friends who have had babies or [who are] pregnant, like, "What positions do you guys do?"' she said. 'This has to be a normal conversation among mothers.'

She said that fellow celeb moms including Serena Williams and Schumer have given her sage advice on what to expect while you're expecting.

'There's just this camaraderie,' she told the outlet. 'It's a secret society that I didn't know about.'

Graham recalled how she 'was hiding [her] pregnancy for the first four months,' 'gaining weight rapidly' and 'felt alone' early on before reaching out to pals.

'The one piece of advice that my stylist, Jordan Foster, gave me was, "Make pregnant friends,"' she said. 'None of my friends were in relationships, let alone pregnant. And now I have nine pregnant friends.'