A finger print found on a bag of Ruffles potato chips was used by Texas authorities to identify and detain a suspect in the shooting death of a 37-year-old man.

Dorian Markal Killebrew, 19, was charged with first degree murder for the shooting death of 37-year-old Christopher Franklin on April 17.

According to an arrest affidavit, Killebrew allegedly shot Franklin at an apartment located at on the 700 block of N Marsalis Avenue at 4.37am.

A witness at the scene - who remained anonymous for safety reasons - told authorities that the two had gotten into a verbal argument inside the apartment, prior to the killing.

Dorian Markal Killebrew, 19, was charged with first degree murder for the shooting death of 37-year-old Christopher Franklin on April 17

According to an arrest affidavit , Killebrew allegedly shot Franklin at an apartment located at on the 700 block of N Marsalis Avenue at 4.37am

The arrest affidavit describes the apartment as being one where drugs are sold.

As per the witness, Killebrew allegedly retrieved a firearm and shot Franklin multiple times before the suspect fled the scene.

The witness fled the scene with Killebrew and then eventually separated from the suspect and alerted police as to Franklin's location. They also told authorities that Killebrew went to a store located in Dallas County where he purchased junk food prior to the shooting.

In addition to that information, the witness also told authorities that Killebrew goes by a street name - 'Pyrex.'

A witness told authorities that Killebrew went to a store located in Dallas County where he purchased junk food prior to the shooting

Dallas detectives went to the store - the Colorado Stop Store off the 800 block of N Lancaster Rd - and looked over surveillance footage where they determined that Killebrew had purchased a bag of the Ruffles potato chips

Dallas detectives went to the store - the Colorado Stop Store off the 800 block of N Lancaster Rd - and looked over surveillance footage where they determined that Killebrew had purchased a bag of the Ruffles potato chips.

A detective present at the apartment scene recalled seeing the bag of chips and requested that the bag be processed for latent prints.

A detective present at the apartment scene recalled seeing the bag of chips and requested that the bag be processed for latent prints (stock picture)

Prints were found on the bag of chips, and they were discovered to have belonged to the suspect. A photo of Killebrew was then used to confirm that he had been inside the convenience store.

Killebrew's photo was then used in a six person photo line-up, which was used by the witness who had allegedly been at the scene with the suspect.

The witness repeatedly shared that he feared for his life while reenacting the events that took place for authorities, before eventually telling the lineup administrator 'no' on the photos.

As the administrator left the room, the witness reportedly said 'it got to be that motherf****r.'

When a detective came and asked about the photos, the witness expressed his fear again and asked to see the photo lineup.

Killebrew was arrested on December 17. During an interview with detectives, Killebrew admitted to his part in Franklin's murder

While sitting in the room alone, the witness reportedly blurted out: 'That's that motherf****r, I already know it.'

The witness finally admitted to a second administrator that Killebrew was the suspect.

A second witness was brought in and that witness shared that he heard that 'Pyrex' was responsible for Franklin's death, the affidavit states.

That witness also identified Killebrew as the suspect in the shooting.

Dallas authorities share that Killebrew's finger prints were found in other parts of the apartment.

Killebrew was arrested on December 17. During an interview with detectives, Killebrew admitted to his part in Franklin's murder.

He was booked into the Dallas County Jail and is being held on a $250,000 bond.