Karol Sanchez, 16, allegedly admitted to staging her own abduction in The Bronx with the help of her 23-year-old boyfriend

The 16-year-old girl who allegedly admitted to staging her own kidnapping in The Bronx earlier this week is believed to have hatched the plan with her 23-year-old boyfriend because she didn't want to move to Honduras with her family.

Surveillance footage captured the moment Karol Sanchez was snatched off the street in front of her mother on Monday night by four men who sped off in a sedan, sparking a massive manhunt.

Fifteen hours later the teen was spotted about a block from the site of the apparent abduction and was reunited with her family before she allegedly confessed to police that she'd planned the entire thing.

Law enforcement sources told People that Sanchez enlisted the help of her boyfriend, who has not been named, to pull off the hoax because she was unhappy about her family's plans to return to their native Honduras.

Blurry surveillance footage captured the moment four men in a sedan pulled up to Sanchez and her mother as the pair were walking home in the Melrose section of the Bronx at around 11.30pm Monday

The men grabbed Sanchez and pushed her mother the ground before driving off with the teen

Blurry surveillance footage captured the moment four men in a sedan pulled up to Sanchez and her mother as the pair were walking home in the Melrose section of the Bronx at around 11.30pm Monday.

The men grabbed Sanchez and pushed her mother the ground before driving off with the teen.

The NYPD issued an Amber Alert and launched a massive search for the girl, who lives in Dutchess County, New York, and was visiting The Bronx with her mother for a medical appointment.

A $2,500 reward was offered for information on her location.

Sources said Sanchez called off the plan on Tuesday afternoon after seeing the intense media coverage her disappearance had attracted.

At around 2.30pm, the teen walked up to the home of a relative with whom she and her mother had been staying and then walked to a park, where she was found by authorities.

Videos shot by PIX11 and Eyewitness News showed a visibly shaken Sanchez falling into the arms of her 36-year-old mother.

Sanchez, seen in a white Adidas shirt, was reunited with her mom (right) on Tuesday afternoon

The 16-year-old girl appeared shaken and was heard whimpering as police escorted her and her family to an awaiting car. She was taken to a precinct to be interviewed

In the video, the teen, flanked by relatives, is seen being escorted to an waiting car.

She appeared in tears and was heard whimpering as reporters asked her if she was glad to be back with her family. She made no comment before settling in the backseat of the car.

Sanchez was taken to the 40th Precinct stationhouse, where sources said she admitted to hatching the plan with four accomplices because she was unhappy.

The sources said investigators are planning to speak with everyone involved before determined who, if anyone, will face charges.

No arrests have been made as of Thursday and police are still searching for four suspects, including the boyfriend.

The boyfriend reportedly has a criminal record and is believed to be a member of a gang, the sources said.