An Australian journalist has been locked up in a foreign jail for allegedly illegally entering the flat of his parents-in-law to look for his school-age children.

Former SBS sports reporter Scott McIntyre, who has lived in Japan for several years, has spent the past three weeks in a Japanese prison cell after being arrested in Western Tokyo on 28 November.

The 45-year-old was arrested after reportedly entering a Tokyo apartment building where his parents-in-law live to look for his two children as part of a custody dispute, The Guardian reported.

It's understood he hasn't seen the school-aged children since May.

McIntyre was arrested for illegal entry when he allegedly followed another resident through a building's main doors and into the communal area.

Former SBS journalist Scott McIntyre (pictured) is being detained in a Japanese jail after allegedly trying to find his children

His social media accounts have been silent since November 25 where his last post was a congratulatory message to the Saudi Arabian Al Hilal Football club for a Champion's League win in the Asian soccer competition.

The cell where the reporter is being held is lit 24 hours a day and conditions are tough, with access to shower facilities allowed only once every five days.

A friend in Tokyo, Catherine Henderson, told The Guardian he's having trouble sleeping.

'He knows how serious this is and he knows it's not good,' she said

Former SBS journalist Scott McIntyre was fired by SBS in 2015 over comments he made on Twitter about ANZAC Day

The freelance reporter worked for the SBS until he was fired in 2015 over controversial tweets about ANZAC Day.

McIntyre used ANZAC Day as an opportunity to voice his views on the day of commemoration- referring to the public holiday as the 'cultification [sic] of an imperialist invasion'.

'Remembering the summary execution, widespread rape and theft committed by these brave Anzacs in Egypt, Palestine and Japan,' he said.

Japanese police can legally detain anyone suspected of having committed a crime in Japan for 23 days without charge.

There's been a groundswell of support on social media for the release of McIntyre, with many criticising the arrest as an abduction and perversion of human rights.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade for comment.