Former Hi-5 star Nathan Foley has welcomed his first child, son Jackson Joel, with wife Nicolette Gomex.

The singer took to Instagram on Thursday to announce the birth, sharing a sweet photo of his son wrapped in a blanket in his mother's arms.

Unable to contain his joy, the 40-year-old told his fans in the caption that 'daddy is over the moon!'

'Daddy is over the moon!' Former Hi-5 star Nathan Foley, 40, welcomed his first child, son Jackson Joel, with wife Nicolette Gomex, 36, on Thursday

'Introducing our Little Baby Boy "JACKSON JOEL FOLEY" born three weeks early on the 19th of December 2019 at 4pm today, weighing 6 pound 11 ounces,' Nathan said in an Instagram post on Thursday.

'Mummy and baby are doing great and daddy is over the moon,' the former children's entertainer continued, alongside hashtags including 'love' and 'happy'.

A day later, Nathan shared a short video to Instagram of little Jackson wrapped in a blanket in a hospital crib.

Precious: The former children's entertainer shared a sweet snap of the newborn to Instagram and wrote in the caption: 'Mummy and baby are doing great and daddy is over the moon'

'JACKSON JOEL FOLEY, our little man,' the musician penned online. 'Not even a day old yet,' alongside hashtags including a love heart and guitar.

Nathan's friends including former Hi-5 star Charli Robinson, shared their well wishes in the comments section.

'Congratulations!!!!! Beautiful Jackson. Such a special, incredible moment! Much love to you three!!!!!' Charli wrote.

His pride and joy: A day later, Nathan shared a short video to Instagram of little Jackson Joel wrapped in a blanket in a hospital crib

Snug as a bug in a rug: 'JACKSON JOEL FOLEY, our little man,' the musician penned online. 'Not even a day old yet, alongside hashtags including a love heart and guitar

Nathan announced in August that he and Jamaican model Nicolette, 36, were expecting a child.

Taking to Instagram at the time, the artist shared a snap of himself posing with his wife of nine months, cradling her baby bump.

Nathan competed on this year's season of Channel Nine's The Voice, after 11 years away from the spotlight.

Bun in the oven: In August, Nathan announced that he and Jamaican model Nicolette, were expecting a child

A member of the original Hi-5 lineup from 1999 to 2008, Nathan went on to perform in stage productions, including 2010's Mamma Mia! and 2011's Acoustic Rhythms.

He briefly returned to television in 2012, appearing on Channel Ten's I Will Survive.

After work dried up, Nathan found a steady income as an entertainer on cruise ships and even won Princess Cruises' Entertainer of the Year in 2016.