The E! Network cameras were rolling as Kourtney Kardashian and her 10-year-old son Mason filmed scenes for the 18th season of Keeping Up with the Kardashians in Long Beach on Thursday.

The 40-year-old Poosh founder - who relies on stylist Dani Michelle - wore a black long-sleeved top, matching carpenter pants, and platform boots to attend a charity event.

Kourtney's street sighting came a month after she teased quitting the show, telling ET: 'I've just decided to spend more time as a mom and put more of my energy there, but I'm not saying goodbye.'

Action! The E! Network cameras were rolling as Kourtney Kardashian and her 10-year-old son Mason filmed scenes for the 18th season of KUWTK in Long Beach on Thursday

That same day, Kardashian - who boasts 123.8M followers/subscribers - posted a few snaps of her youngest child, Reign Aston, captioned: 'Ya feel me smoove?!'

The long-haired five-year-old was decked out in plaid pajamas, a matching pom-pom beanie, bright red jacket, and matching Converse high-tops.

The Calabasas socialite also revealed she bought two 'cute' custom children's books for her privileged kiddos to put under one of their many Christmas trees.

Kourtney also has a seven-year-old daughter Penelope with her ex-partner, Talentless CEO Scott Disick.

All-black attire: The 40-year-old Poosh founder - who relies on stylist Dani Michelle - wore a black long-sleeved top, carpenter pants, and platform boots to attend a charity event

Kourtney's street sighting came a month after she teased quitting the show, telling ET: 'I've just decided to spend more time as a mom and put more of my energy there, but I'm not saying goodbye'

Kardashian famously ended their nine-year on/off relationship in 2015 after her 36-year-old babydaddy was pictured canoodling with stylist Chloé Bartoli in the South of France.

Speaking of philandering exes, the half-Armenian beauty rekindled her on/off romance with boxer-turned-model Younes Bendjima 'several months ago' - according to TMZ.

Kourtney and the Algerian 26-year-old - who enjoyed Disneyland on Tuesday - previously ended their 22-month relationship in August 2018 after he was pictured canoodling with Jordan Ozuna in Mexico.

'Ya feel me smoove?!' That same day, Kardashian - who boasts 123.8M followers/subscribers - posted a few snaps of her youngest child, Reign Aston

Christmas time: The long-haired five-year-old was decked out in plaid pajamas, a matching pom-pom beanie, bright red jacket, and matching Converse high-tops

'Merry Christmas!' The Calabasas socialite also revealed she bought two 'cute' custom children's books for her privileged kiddos to put under one of their many Christmas trees

'He would love to get back together with her and has expressed how much he misses her,' a source told E! News on Thursday.

'Kourtney likes being around him and they have a lot of fun together. Younes is good with the kids and things are easygoing with him.

'Kourtney isn't ready to be tied down, but does have feelings for Younes. They are seeing how it goes for now.'

'My little Knight rider': Kourtney also has a seven-year-old daughter Penelope with her ex- partner, Talentless CEO Scott Disick (pictured October 14)