She announced in August this year that she's expecting her second child.

And in an honest message to fans on Friday, Turia Pitt revealed she has been suffering from 'mum guilt' ever since the arrival of her first son, Hakavai, in 2017.

The inspirational burns survivor, 32, sent a brave message to her fans saying she felt 'guilty' for working so hard on her businesses, as she prepares to give birth for a second time in 10 weeks.

Inspiring: And in an honest message to fans on Friday, Turia Pitt (right) revealed she was suffering 'mum guilt' after welcoming her first son, Hakavai Hoskin (left) in 2017

'Ever since I had Hakavai, I've made a great new friend. Her name is Mother Guilt and, look, she's an opinionated lass,' she wrote.

'But her most famous quote is this classic: ''You're working too much. Why aren't you spending more time with your family?'' And on this, she sorta has a point.'

The model, athlete, author and motivational speaker then revealed she had been working exceptionally hard to make sure her businesses are all ready for her to go on maternity leave, while spending less time with her family.

But after saying her mother guilt was 'ramped right up', she then emotionally revealed the reason why she'll never stop working hard.

Feeling guilty: The pregnant star then revealed she had been working exceptionally hard to make sure her businesses are all ready for her to go on maternity leave

'I don't think we're ever gonna feel like we've got everything right,' she added. 'But a little work now to give me more freedom in the future - that's an investment I'm willing to make.'

She finished off her inspiring message by telling other mothers that it's a 'pretty good effort' to invest time in the life you want for yourself, 'no guilt required'.

Turia announced she and fiancé Michael Hoskin were expecting their second child earlier this year.

She suffered horrific burns to 65 per cent of her body when she was caught up in a grass fire in 2011, and is now required to undergo frequent surgeries to help her body heal.

Growing family: Turia announced she and fiancé Michael (left) were expecting their second child back in August

Although she is incredibly excited to welcome her second child to the world, she told Women's Weekly she has been forced to make some sacrifices due to pregnancy.

'If I wasn't pregnant, I would have around three operations a year, and I could have more, but I want to balance getting better and having operations with having a normal life,' she told the publication.

The doting parent, who was burned while running a marathon in WA, has also refused to give up her active lifestyle.

'Say I was doing a surgery every month, I wouldn't be able to do an Ironman event and see friends and do family things like go to my nephew's birthday party.'

'Three [surgeries] a year is a good number because I'm making progress and I'm getting better, but I'm not missing out on anything,' she said.