Australian singer Cody Simpson, 22, and girlfriend Miley Cyrus, 27, are still together and loved-up as ever, according to Cody's sister Alli.

The split denial comes after Cody was spotted in New York with a Playboy model amid ongoing split rumours with Miley.

Speaking to Daily Mail Australia on Monday, Alli officially quashed talk that the couple had decided to end their whirlwind romance after two months.

EXCLUSIVE: Australian singer Alli Simpson (above) confirms brother Cody and girlfriend Miley Cyrus are STILL TOGETHER amid split rumours

Alli, who is also a successful singer and actress, said: 'yes [they're] together for sure.'

The 21-year-old said she wanted to respect Cody and Miley's privacy by keeping their Christmas and New Year's plans under wraps.

Meanwhile, Alli said she wouldn't be seeing Cody this year: 'I will be spending Christmas and holidays on the coast with my family.'

'Yes [they're] together for sure': Cody's sister Alli officially quashed talk that the couple have decided to end their whirlwind romance after just two months of dating

Holidays: Alli said she wanted to respect Cody and Miley's privacy by keeping their Christmas and New Year's plans under wraps

On Saturday, Cody fueled separation rumours with Miley as he strolled New York with Playboy's December 2019 playmate Jordy Murray, 26.

The sighting came amid the once-inseparable couples' absence from the limelight over the past two weeks.

Cody and Miley haven't been spotted together since volunteering at a youth homeless shelter in Los Angeles earlier this month. The pair haven't posted about each other on Instagram or commented on each other's posts, however they still follow each other on the social media platform.

Cody's sister Alli explained: 'She [Jordy] is his best friend, Ryan Mcarthy’s girlfriend of a few years. He’s visiting him for a couple days.'

They go way back! Speaking to Daily Mail Australia on Monday, Cody's sister Alli Simpson said Jordy Murray (above) was one of Cody's best friends

'A sad Christmas song': Miley shared a selection of Tweets less than 48 hours earlier about being 'lonely' over the festive period

'In ways that still feels relevant': Miley spoke about feeling lonely during the holiday season

Digital silence: The sighting came amid the once-inseparable couples' absence from the limelight over the past two weeks

Miley piqued fans' interest on Friday when she shared a selection of Tweets about being 'lonely' over the festive period.

Sharing a 'sad Christmas song' she penned a few years ago, Miley claimed: 'Even with a house full of family and friends I still felt alone... In ways that still feels relevant.'

The Slide Away hit-maker also reflected on the time she wrote the piece: 'Was feeling like s**t cause I couldn’t be with the one I loved.'

Over! In December last year, Miley wed Liam Hemsworth in an intimate ceremony in Tennessee - they split seven months later after their on-and-off relationship since 2009

In December last year, Miley wed Liam Hemsworth in an intimate ceremony at her family's Tennessee home.

She split with the Australian actor in late July after sharing an on-and-off relationship for almost 10 years.

Miley debuted her relationship with singer Cody in October.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted Miley Cyrus, Cody Simpson for comment.