Jamie Maclaren is poised to be the star of the show in Saturday's A-League Melbourne derby, but Melbourne Victory won't be solely focused on shutting down Melbourne City's lethal striker.

Maclaren was unavailable through Socceroos duty for the round one 0-0 stalemate, but will be chomping at the bit for the rematch at AAMI Park - with City coach Erick Mombaerts clearly delighted to have the striker at his disposal.

"He can make the difference - we expect all the time that if he has two chances, he can score one," Mombaerts said on Friday.

"That is the difference between a normal player and an international player.

"And for us (Maclaren's availability) changed (our approach) because we want to play an offensive style of play, so we need to have some specific players to do this and Jamie is the best to do this."

But Victory coach Marco Kurz emphasised the importance of dealing with City's attack as a whole, with the likes of Adrian Luna and Javier Cabrera also finding form recently.

"We know he (Maclaren) is a key player - if you control him then we will (do) a good job," Kurz said

"But it's not only Maclaren, I think it's a strong (City) side. They have a lot of players back after injuries and they're maybe the strongest side of both teams at the moment."

While Kurz made it clear the derby was "always a special game", Mombaerts was less enamoured with the occasion - saying while bragging rights were important for the fans, he wanted his team to perform consistently, rather than getting up for one game.

"I don't care about this. For me, it's just a game - three points.

"The first (derby) I was disappointed a lot because we couldn't play with our best players and now it's not the same case so we'll play, I hope, with our best starting XI, so we'll see."

Against Wellington, Kurz had highlighted Victory's lack of confidence on the ball but said they had trained strongly this week and were confident of performing.

"We are not down now, we are looking forward to tomorrow and we will be a really good opponent."

STATS THAT MATTER

* The past three A-League games between City and Victory have ended in a draw - Victory won four of their six meetings prior to that span, with City winning two.

* Victory's Robbie Kruse has scored a goal once every 55 minutes in Melbourne derbies, the most frequent of any player in A-League history (3 goals in 165 minutes).

* City have converted 78 per cent (14/18) of their big scoring chances this A-League season, significantly higher than any other team in the competition (the next-best is Perth Glory at 60 per cent).

Stats provided by Opta