She announced her split from estranged husband Liam Hemsworth, 29, in August, eight months after their secret wedding at her $8.2 million (AU) Tennessee mansion.

And on Friday, Miley Cyrus poked fun at her eight-month marriage in the comments of an Instagram post made by The Most Famous Artist, run by Matty Mo.

After the Instagram user said he hopes to wed the 27-year-old American singer in 2020, she responded by saying 'it probably won't last long.'

'It probably won't last long': Miley Cyrus, 27, poked fun at her eight-month marriage with Liam Hemsworth, 29, in an Instagram comment on Friday. The former couple are pictured in February

Matty shared a screen grab of his Instagram bio on his official page, which read: 'Getting married to @mileycyrus in 2020.'

He also wrote in the post's caption: 'Upping my manifestation game for 2020 and putting this out there,' tagging Miley.

Miley commented underneath: 'It probably won't last long [engagement ring emoji]. But always down to try, you miss 100 per cent of the shots you don't take.'

Hopes: An Instagram user said he hopes to wed the American singer in 2020, and wrote in an Instagram caption: 'Upping my manifestation game for 2020 and putting this out there'

Replying: 'It probably won't last long [engagement ring emoji]. But always down to try, you miss 100 per cent of the shots you don't take,' Miley said

Daily Mail Australia has reached out to Miley and Liam's representatives for comment.

Miley and Liam announced their split in August after she was snapped by photographers kissing blogger and Brody Jenner's ex-girlfriend, Kaitlynn Carter, 31.

Liam said at the time of the split: 'This is a private matter and I have not made, nor will I be making, any comments to any journalists or media outlets.'

Miley enjoyed a whirlwind romance with Kaitlynn following their breakup, before embarking on a relationship with Australian singer Cody Simpson, 22.

Headlines: Miley and Liam announced their split in August after she was snapped by photographers kissing Brody Jenner's ex-girlfriend, Kaitlynn Carter (right), 31

Liam said at the time of the split: 'This is a private matter and I have not made, nor will I be making, any comments to any journalists or media outlets.' Pictured in 2016

Moving on: Miley enjoyed a whirlwind romance with Kaitlynn following their breakup, before embarking on a relationship with Australian singer Cody Simpson (pictured), 22

Miley and Liam are reportedly finalising their divorce after eight months of marriage, with Liam allegedly hiring high-profile Hollywood divorce lawyer, Laura Wasser.

Liam sparked rumours of a romance last Friday with Australian model Gabriella Brooks, after introducing her to his parents Craig and Leonie in Byron Bay, Australia.

The 21-year-old stunner appeared to hit it off with Liam's mother and father as the group got to know each other over a family lunch.

In October, Liam was linked to Australian actress Maddison Brown, 22, after they enjoyed a date in New York, but it appears nothing progressed between the pair.

Short-lived? In October, Liam was linked to Australian actress Maddison Brown (pictured), 22, after they enjoyed a date in New York, but it appears nothing progressed between the pair