The second cousin of Prince Andrew claims that pedophile financier Jeffrey Epstein, who was accused of soliciting underage girls for sex, and his alleged fixer Ghislaine Maxwell thought the royal was a 'hapless sap'.

Christina Oxenberg is lifting the lid on her high life in society where she rubbed shoulders with Royals and Hollywood stars, and is dishing about Epstein's friendship with the Duke of York, who is her second cousin once removed.

The 56-year-old society writer and novelist is the daughter of Princess Elizabeth of Yugoslavia and sister of Hollywood actress Catherine Oxenberg, but is estranged from both. Her grandmother and Prince Philip's mother are first cousins.

Now she's revealing all in weekly memoirs posted on the crowd-funded content platform Patreon, and divulging how she met Epstein's alleged fixer Ghislaine Maxwell in English society in the 90s.

Oxenberg recalled how she attended dinner parties at Epstein's lavish Upper East Side townhouse in New York, which she described as 'a plush, professionally decorated showpiece in shades of beige'.

Society writer Christina Oxenberg, 56, is lifting the lid on her relationship with the British Royals and Jeffrey Epstein. She reveals she went to dinner parties at Epstein's New York mansion and says he targeted Prince Andrew for his status

Speaking on Epstein and his alleged fixer Ghislaine Maxwell Oxenberg says: 'They were grifters and he was low-hanging fruit. He really was a hapless sap'. Maxwell and Prince Andrew, who is her second cousin once removed, are pictured together in June 2000

In her posts she speculates that Epstein and Maxwell saw Prince Andrew as a prime target to recruit into their circle of rich and powerful friends.

'They were grifters and he was low-hanging fruit. He really was a hapless sap. But he’s my cousin so I love him, and I understand that being a dummy doesn’t make you a bad guy,' Oxenberg said, according to Town and Country Magazine.

She described Maxwell as a woman who sought control and power.

'If I saw her she would say, "You're my poorest friend! And she'd laugh, it gave her pleasure, made her feel in control perhaps.'

Oxenberg added that Maxwell even asked if she could ghost-write a novel for her.

Oxenberg also opened up about her fraught relationship with her family saying her entire interaction with her mother in the last quarter century was one lunch three years ago where 'she talked about the weather', followed by a single 'like' on one of her Facebook posts in November.

Oxenberg said she attended dinner parties at Epstein's lavish Upper East Side townhouse in New York, which she described as ' a plush, professionally decorated showpiece in shades of beige'. Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell pictured above

Christina Oxenberg pictured sharing a hug with Ghislaine Maxwell next to Prince Dimitri of Yugoslavia in 2013 in New York City

'Obviously she's unblocked me,' Oxenberg said.

In her Patron posts Oxenberg says her mother, a Serbian Royal, and her father Howard Oxenberg, who worked in fashion and died in 2010, had a hard six-year marriage riddled with affairs.

'Mom is a princess from a country that doesn’t exist anymore, and Dad was Jewish, from Brooklyn, in the garment industry. He was the first to mass market maternity clothes, which was very clever,' she said.

'They both had a lot of affairs and were very naughty, very badly behaved. My mom had an affair with J.F.K. when she got pregnant with me, and everybody knew about it. It was very public, and she did it to poke her finger in the eye of Howard, who was screwing around. As a princess she was able to outdo him and get the president,' she added.

She went so far as to claim that when her father found out about the Kennedy affair, he went to Washington with a pistol.

Oxenberg said that President Kennedy 'died believing that I was his child, the poor thing.'

After Howard and Princess Elizabeth of Yugoslavia divorced, Christina, her sister Catherine and their mother moved to England, where she became familiar with the Windsor family.

'I met the Queen at Buckingham Palace for tea. Her husband [Prince Philip] is Greek, and my grandmother [Princess Olga of Greece and Denmark] is Greek, so they are very closely related,' Oxenberg said.

Catherine Oxenberg pictured with Richard Burton and her mother Princess Elizabeth in 1974

Hollywood actress Catherine Oxenberg pictured with her daughter India (together above) who was recruited into Keith Raniere's sex cult NXIVM

Princess Elizabeth of Yugoslavia pictured center with her daughter Catherine Oxenberg, right, and her children Bo, India and Gracie in 2000

'But how I was brought up, everybody I was ever introduced to had a title. It was completely par for the course. In fact, movie stars were spoken of so disparagingly—it was like they were showgirls,' she added.

Oxenberg continues to dish all on Patreon, even though it could further damage her relationships with her family.

'It’s everything I’ve been asked never to repeat. But after the age of 50, the gloves have to come off,' she said.

Christina's sister Catherine Oxenberg, an actress best known for her performance in the 1980s soap opera Dynasty and whose daughter was recruited into Keith Raniere's sex cult NXIVM, condemned the Patreon memoir posts.

'Tina’s comments sadden me. I won’t say anything disparaging about my sister. I do not consider my sister a reliable or truthful source,' she said to Town & Country Magazine.

'I am very proud of all my children and their accomplishments. Christina is very clever, a good writer and brilliant at marketing. She knows how to combine imagination with facts as this way she promotes her blogs and stories,' Princess Elizabeth said on her memoir posts.