CALGARY, Alberta (AP) - Max Domi's teammates had luck scoring with perimeter shots, so he took his chances in overtime.

Domi beat goalie Dave Rittich on an end-to-end overtime rush to give the Montreal Canadiens a 4-3 victory over the Calgary Flames on Thursday night.

Domi fired a low slap shot from just above the left faceoff circle that eluded Riitch's glove on the far side at 3:52 of the extra period.

"I was absolutely out of gas to be honest," Domi said. "The shift before that we were dancing around pretty good and didn't score. They had a chance, Price made a save and he just kind of kicked it out to me.

"I know Gio a little bit from back home. I know how good he is. I'm a big fan of him. He's one of the best defenders in the entire league.

"I knew I wasn't going to beat him at the end of a shift like that. Just figured I'd shoot it through him and got lucky with the shot."

Montreal Canadiens' Max Domi (13) celebrates his overtime goal against the Calgary Flames during an NHL hockey game Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019, in Calgary, Alberta. (Jeff McIntosh/The Canadian Press via AP)

Nick Suzuki pulled the Canadiens even at 3 with 9:02 left in regulation, deflecting Nick Cousins' pass over Rittich's head.

Carey Price made 24 saves, and Brendan Gallagher and Joel Armia added goals to help Montreal improve to 4-1 in its last five and 17-12-6 overall.

Matthew Tkachuk and Elias Lindholm each had a goal and an assist for Calgary. Oliver Kylington scored his first of the season, and Johnny Gaudreau had two assists. Rittich stopped 39 shots.

Tkachuk and Lindholm scored for Calgary in the first period, and Gallagher and Armia countered for Montreal in the second.

Calgary is 7-3 under interim head coach Geoff Ward, but has lost three in a row.

"We knew they were going to shoot pucks from everywhere," Ward said. "Tonight they got pucks to the net and they got a couple big goals. They got one to get them going and they got one to tie it."

NOTES: Canadiens captain Shea Weber extended his points streak to five straight game with an assist . . . The Flames wore retro white jerseys, with Rittich donning brown throwback pads and gloves. The Habs suited up in their classic reds.

UP NEXT

Canadiens: At Edmonton on Saturday night.

Flames: At Dallas on Sunday.

Montreal Canadiens' Brendan Gallagher, left, celebrates his goal with teammates during second-period NHL hockey game action against the Calgary Flames in Calgary, Alberta, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. (Jeff McIntosh/The Canadian Press via AP)

Montreal Canadiens' Max Domi, left, looks on as Calgary Flames goalie David Rittich makes a save during second-period NHL hockey game action in Calgary, Alberta, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. (Jeff McIntosh/The Canadian Press via AP)

Montreal Canadiens' Joel Armia, right, celebrates his goal as Calgary Flames goalie David Rittich looks on during second-period NHL hockey game action in Calgary, Alberta, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. (Jeff McIntosh/The Canadian Press via AP)

Montreal Canadiens' Nate Thompson, right, has his stick grabbed by Calgary Flames' Michael Frolik during first-period NHL hockey game action in Calgary, Alberta, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. (Jeff McIntosh/The Canadian Press via AP)

Montreal Canadiens' Tomas Tatar, right, checks Calgary Flames' Mark Giordano during second-period NHL hockey game action in Calgary, Alberta, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. (Jeff McIntosh/The Canadian Press via AP)

Montreal Canadiens goalie Carey Price, left, blocks the net on a shot from Calgary Flames' Tobias Rieder during the third period of an NHL hockey game Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019, in Calgary, Alberta. (Jeff McIntosh/The Canadian Press via AP)