An environmental health expert believes the usual advice to stay indoors and cut back on outdoor exercise during times of smoke pollution is "impractical" as NSW endures a lengthy bushfire season and smoke lingers for days and weeks.

Sotiris Vardoulakis from the Australian National University thinks more nuanced advice is needed during longer periods of smoke exposure.

The global environmental health professor said this could involve people reading and understanding their local air quality data online so they could adjust their plans accordingly to minimise risk.

"People need to carry on with their daily activities, they need to go to work, they need to go to school, so they cannot stay indoors all time," he told AAP on Friday.

"We also want to encourage people to take some physical exercise, that's very important for the physical health and mental health."

Prof Vardoulakis said pollution fluctuated during the day and there were some periods when the air was relatively cleaner, even during bushfires.

"So for example, what we saw in Sydney in recent weeks was that air quality was relatively better in the early morning," he said.

"This pattern can change depending on the wind direction, but if people check the air quality levels and see that the air quality's better in early morning, that will be the time to go out."

Prof Vardoulakis said for the pregnant, elderly or those with pre-existing respiratory conditions, it was important to avoid exposure.

Some activities could be indoors - such as at an indoor gym or swimming pool to exercise when air pollution was high.

Prof Vardoulakis said when bad air quality kept people indoors, they should close doors and windows - and if they had air-conditioning, to use it on recirculate mode.

He recommended people consider using portable air cleaners with high-efficiency particular air filters, saying research had shown some Australian homes were leaky and smoke could penetrate.

Cardiologist Dr Arnagretta Hunter, also from ANU, said it would take "quite a bit more time for us to make accurate predictions about what the morbidity and mortality of this problematic, hazardous air pollution has been".

"It's tremendously concerning," she told ABC News on Friday.

Dr Hunter said seven to 10 million Australians had been affected by hazardous air pollution at some point over the past couple of months "and for many of us it's a multitude of days".

She also noted that people's exercise was affected both by air quality and heat "and that will resonate in our health through next year".