An IT guru subjected to death threats and forced to move house after being accused of raping a boy he met on Grindr, says his life has been ruined and he has lost everything because of the false accusations.

Moud Ul Hasan Nuri became the target of vigilantes in October after he was charged with sexually assaulting a 13-year-old boy he met on the gay dating app.

Police alleged at the time that Mr Nuri, 41, went to the boy's western Sydney home, lured him outside and raped him - only stopping when the teenager's mother heard a commotion and rushed to her son's aid.

Soon after he was charged, Mr Nuri received death threats and had his home address published online, forcing him into hiding.

But during a hearing in the NSW District Court earlier this month, prosecutors made a sensational decision to drop all charges against Mr Nuri.

However, Mr Nuri - who has always maintained his innocence - told Daily Mail Australia his life has been ruined.

Moud Ul Hasan Nuri (pictured) was subjected to death threats and had to move house after he was wrongly accused of raping a teenager boy he met on Grindr

Mr Nuri (pictured outside Penrith Local Court) has always maintained his innocence and told Daily Mail Australia this week that despite the charges being dropped, his life has been ruined

'There is nothing to be happy about,' Mr Nuri said.

'I lost my reputation, my friends, my family support, my job, everything.

'I belong to a Muslim conservative family and community. First, being gay or bisexual is the biggest sin to them.

The looks and hatred I get from people is unbearable... Moud Nuri to Daily Mail Australia

'Then (I was) branded a rapist...imagine my life now... the looks and hatred I get from people is unbearable.

Mr Nuri's case made headlines around the country after he was allowed to walk free on bail, despite the horrific nature of the charges against him.

At the time NSW Police commissioner Mick Fuller admitted they had made a mistake by not opposing bail at Mr Nuri's first court appearance.

'From my perspective, we should have stood up and asked for the matter to be bail refused,' Mr Fuller told 2GB's Ray Hadley.

This led to a group of vigilantes threatening Mr Nuri after his first court appearance.

'You're a dog. Hand yourself in,' the mob yelled at him as they stood waiting outside Penrith Local Court.

Others online threatened to kill Mr Nuri in his home, forcing a judge to suppress his address.

An I.T expert, Mr Nuri said the accusations against him had ruined his career, his relationships and his ability to practice his religion

Mr Nuri was abused by bystanders as he left Penrith Local Court after an appearance last year. He later received death threats and had his address posted on the internet, forcing him to move house

The charges against Mr Nuri were suddenly dropped by the Office of the Director for Public Prosecutions earlier this month, shocking even his lawyers

But the sudden decision by the Office of the Director for Public Prosecutions to drop the charge against Mr Nuri on December 6 took even his own legal team by surprise.

Sydney solicitor Fahim Khan said he assumed 'new evidence' had cast doubt on the prosecution's case and the teenage boy's account, but he could not be sure.

'The proceedings against Mr Nuri were discontinued on an application by the Crown, the day before the young person was to give evidence,' Mr Khan said.

'It is our suspicion that new evidence came to light that significantly weakened the prosecution case, in the sense that either the young person may not have been truthful to the police when complaint was first made or that legal issues would have arisen that would have shed doubt on the reliability of the young person's evidence.

'However, we do not know the exact reasons for the Prosecution's decision.'

The NSW Office of the Director for Public Prosecutions declined to comment.