NBA All-Star Shaquille 'Shaq' O'Neal has announced he will be coming to Australia for the first time in 20 years.

The 47-year-old former LA Lakers player will be coming Down Under next year to tour his seminar and Q&A sessions, where he will break down the secrets to his success.

Called The Life of Shaquille O'Neal, the series will see him travel to Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane from June 11 to 15.

Now that's a slam dunk! NBA All-Star Shaquille 'Shaq' O'Neal (pictured) announced this week that he'll be coming to Australia for the first time in 20 years for his new seminar series

Shaq took to Instagram on Thursday to share his excitement with Australian fans.

'Australia! I'm coming down under for the first time in over 20 years,' he wrote in part of his post.

Since retiring from the NBA in 2011, Shaq has gone on to become a successful sports analyst and currently features on TNT's Inside the NBA.

One for the fans: Called The Life of Shaquille O'Neal, the series will see him travel to Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane from June 11 to 15

Standing at well over two metres tall, Shaq was a formidable force during his career winning the NBA Rookie of the Year before going on to win four championships.

The sports star later earned a PhD in Leadership and Education and used his newfound knowledge to give back to the community through various philanthropic programs.

Shaq has also successfully branched out into the restaurant business.

One of the greats: Standing at well over two metres tall, Shaq was a formidable force during his career winning the NBA Rookie of the Year before going on to win four championships

Keeping busy: The sports star later earned a PhD in Leadership and Education and used his newfound knowledge to give back to the community through various philanthropic programs

Between his work as a sports analyst he has also been DJ-ing around the world with four rap albums to his name.

The tour will no doubt be a welcome distraction for the spots star, who lost his sister, Ayesha Harrison-Jex, in October to cancer.

Ayesha died at the age of 40 following a cancer battle, three years after her diagnosis.