Just days after announcing his new opera Mary will be coming to New York City next week, Kanye West has shared new artwork.

West, 42, took to Twitter on Thursday to share new sketches and artwork for Mary, his second opera which premiered at Art Basel in Miami earlier this month.

The rapper will bring his show to the Big Apple for a performance on Sunday, December 22 at 8 PM ET at the David Geffen Hall in New York City's Lincoln Center.

Opera talk: Just days after announcing his new opera Mary will be coming to New York City next week, Kanye West has shared new artwork

Save the date: The rapper will bring his show to the Big Apple for a performance on Sunday, December 22 at 8 PM ET at the David Geffen Hall in New York City's Lincoln Center

The first piece of artwork comes from Scene 4, where, 'Pregnant Mary Returns Home to Joseph.'

The artwork also denotes accompanying music, the song Devil In a New Dress (Horn) followed by Can't Tell Me Nothing (Oooo).

The artwork is also accompanied by a Bible verse, Matthew 1:18-19, which reads, 'When as his mother was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with the child of the holy ghost.'

Scene 4: The first piece of artwork comes from Scene 4, where, 'Pregnant Mary Returns Home to Joseph;

'Then Joseph her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly,' the verse ends.

The second image featured a number of unidentified images from throughout the opera, though the rapper did not add any further details.

The third image he labeled as a 'Vanessa Beecroft sketch,' referring to the opera's director, which features a number of seemingly robed figures in rows.

Images: The second image featured a number of unidentified images from throughout the opera, though the rapper did not add any further details

Director's sketch: The third image he labeled as a 'Vanessa Beecroft sketch,' referring to the opera's director, which features a number of seemingly robed figures in rows

The final sketch is from Meg Webster, which depicts the 'manger with sticks,' a 'choir-mound row high' and 'music mound' for musicians.

The gospel rapper also shared new details about the play in a new profile for Vogue, where he speaks openly about his faith.

'I thought I had it all figured out,' West said, adding that God has changed 'everything, my ego.'

Final sketch: The final sketch is from Meg Webster, which depicts the 'manger with sticks,' a 'choir-mound row high' and 'music mound' for musicians

He added that he wants to use the medium of opera music to become, 'a beacon of light,' while shedding light on his process.

'God put it all together,' he says. 'I'll tell you what, when I don't apply grace, I don't get the results I'm looking for.'

'Everything must be done with grace. That's one of the things I pray for—and I need to pray for more,' West added.