She's one of the most outspoken stars to ever have come from Married At First Sight, who regularly shares jaw-dropping snaps on social media.

But it seems the passion for sultry selfies doesn't run in Martha Kalifatidis' family - if her brother Nickolaos' Instagram page is anything to go by.

Mystery surrounds the 21-year-old blonde surfer, whose entire social media channel - which has amassed over 2,480 followers - has his face hidden from view at all times.

Who is he? Martha Kalifatidis' younger sibling Nickolaos (right) shares no photos of his face on Instagram. Pictured with Martha's boyfriend, Michael Brunelli (left)

Mystery sibling: Nickolaos is the 21-year-old brother of Martha Kalifatidis (left), who soared to fame after 'marrying' Michael on Married At First Sight

Even his tagged photos show no sign of the keen golfer's visage - including a recent shot with Martha's boyfriend, Michael Brunelli.

On Friday, Michael shared a picture with Nickolaos facing the wall, captioned: 'Imagine a Kalifatidis that doesn't believe in selfies... Meet Nick.'

Not much is known about Nick, except the fact he's a keen sportsman who celebrated his 21st birthday in May.

He briefly hit headlines in March this year, amid rumours he was dating Martha's MAFS co-star Ines Basic.

How bizarre! The keen surfer's Instagram page features no pictures of his face - even on his tagged photos. Pictured last year in Wategos Beach, Byron Bay

Unknown: Not much is known about Nick, except the fact he's a keen sportsman who celebrated his 21st birthday in May

Keen golfer: Nick regularly shares updates on his Instagram page, mostly videos of himself playing golf

The 29-year-old brunette beauty had shared a photo of herself wearing a pair of Adidas basketball shorts - owned by Martha's brother - and a black bra.

Reminiscing over the shorts which she apparently misplaced, Ines captioned the photo: 'I'm looking for the location of where I left these shorts that actually belong to @martha__k brother. I really miss them.'

Besides Jules Robinson and Cameron Merchant, Martha and Michael are the only couple who have stayed together during the 2019 series of Married at First Sight.

They celebrated their one-year anniversary of meeting in September, and recently revealed they are set to move in together and relocate to Sydney.

Dating speculation: Nickolaos briefly hit headlines in March this year, amid rumours he was dating Martha's MAFS co-star Ines Basic (pictured)

'I really miss them': Reminiscing over the shorts which she has now misplaced, Ines captioned the photo: 'I'm looking for the location of where I left these shorts that actually belong to @martha__k brother'

Their relationship went through a rocky stage this week, with Martha kicking her beau out of her parents' $1 million home in Melbourne on Wednesday night following a row.

The 31-year-old said the couple were on the brink of a break-up, screaming at him for spoiling the ending of a television program she was watching.

'Me and Michael are about to break up because he just ruined the show I have been watching for months,' Martha began in her lengthy rant.

Unhappy: Martha kicked boyfriend Michael out of her parents' $1 million home in Melbourne on Wednesday night following a row

'Michael are about to break-up': The 31-year-old said the couple were on the brink of a break-up, screaming at him for spoiling the ending of a television program she was watching

'I'm on the final season, and he just told me the ending.'

As Michael was splayed out on Martha's bedroom floor while she ranted from the bed, he prompted the beauty to start screaming when he pointed out that it was not the final season of the show.

'It's season five. He has told me the ending and ruined it. Would you get angry, or no? He thought it was a joke,' Martha ranted as she discussed her favourite TV show, Vikings.

When Michael tried to climb into bed with Martha, she exclaimed 'you know where you belong' and 'only humans are allowed on the bed.'

They celebrated their one-year anniversary of meeting in September and recently revealed they are set to move in together and relocate to Sydney.