Alyssa Milano, Beverly Johnson, Teri Hatcher, Sophia Bush and the Rev. Al Sharpton were among the stars who showed up to Thursday's Democrat debate outside held at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles.

The celebs were out in full force for the debate, which came the day after the House of Representatives voted to impeach President Donald Trump.

Milano, 47, donned a red coat with buttons over a dark print dress with black leggings underneath and black heeled boots.

Out and about: Alyssa Milano and husband Dave Bugliari showed up to Thursday's Democrat debate outside held at Loyola Marymount University in LA

The actress-activist, walking with husband Dave Bugliari, 39, wore her brown locks parted to the side as she made her way to the proceedings.

The Brooklyn-born beauty shared a series of tweets from the political event, including a shot from the stage.

The alum of shows including Who's the Boss?, Melrose Place and Charmed - who has been an outspoken critic of the president - took to Twitter Wednesday with an admittedly-subdued reaction to Trump becoming the third president in U.S. history to be impeached.

'I expected this moment but I expected to be more joyful,' Milano said. 'Maybe jump up & do a happy dance. Maybe. But I’m just sad and heartbroken.'

Stylish: Milano, 47, donned a red coat with buttons over a dark print dress with black leggings underneath and black heeled boots

Bird's eye view: The Brooklyn-born beauty shared a series of tweets from the political event

She continued: 'What he’s left behind can’t be erased with this vote. The bigotry and xenophobia he’s emboldened. The lies. It will take generations to recover.'

Beverly Johnson looked amazing as she arrived in a silver coat over an all-black ensemble of a shirt, slacks and boots.

The modeling icon, 67, had her locks down and parted as she arrived to the event.

Stunning: Beverly Johnson, 67, looked amazing as she arrived in a silver coat over an all-black ensemble of a shirt, slacks and boots

Confident: Teri Hatcher donned a white button-up shirt with a floral pattern with black slacks

Stylish: Hatcher carried a black leather purse and had her brown locks parted in the center; pictured with her daughter Emerson Tenney, 22

Beaming: The Desperate Housewives star, 55, was excited as she prepared to watch the candidates spar

Teri Hatcher donned a white button-up shirt with a floral pattern with black slacks and shoes. The Desperate Housewives star, 55, carried a black leather purse and had her brown locks parted in the center.

Sophia Bush wore a beige coat over a black top with a grey dress and black boots.

The 37-year-old One Tree Hill alum had a black purse on her shoulder and had her brown locks parted and pulled back.

Focused: The Rev. Al Sharpton looked crisp in a grey pinstripe suit headed to the debate

Beauty: Sophia Bush wore a beige coat over a black top with a grey dress and black boots

Fashionista: The One Tree Hill alum, 37, had a black purse on her shoulder and had her brown locks parted and pulled back

The seven candidates who appeared at Thursday evening's debate, the last one of the year, included Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, ex-Vice President Joe Biden, South Bend, Indiana Mayor Pete Buttigieg, Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar and businessmen Tom Steyer and Andrew Yang.

To qualify, candidates had to garner at least four percent of the vote in a qualifying polls determined by the DNC, and get a total of 200,000 unique donors with at least 800 donors hailing from a minimum of 20 states.

Seven up: (L-R) Andrew Yang, Pete Buttigieg, Elizabeth Warren, Joe Biden, Bernie Sanders, Amy Klobuchar and Tom Steyer

Lighter moment: Biden clapped at Warren during the debate