Younger actress Hilary Duff shared the first image from her wedding to rocker Matthew Koma in the front yard of her Los Angeles home on Saturday night.

The 32-year-old bride wore an ivory-crepe Jenny Packham backless and cape-sleeved gown and the 32-year-old groom donned a Celine tuxedo.

'For the rest of forever,' Matthew captioned the loved-up shot on Instagram.

'For the rest of forever': The 32-year-old bride wore an ivory-crepe Jenny Packham backless and cape-sleeved gown and the 32-year-old groom donned a Celine tuxedo

Celebrity well wishers commenting on the image included Scooter Braun, Erin Foster, Ashley Benson, Jamie Lynn Sigler, Vanessa Lachey, and Bebe Rexha.

Guests at the intimate affair included the 32-year-old bride's big sister Haylie, The Walking Dead alum Alanna Masterson, and Superbad's McLovin himself, Christopher Mintz-Plasse.

And Duff's stylist Jessica Paster shared a snap of some of the wedding flowers captioned: 'Winter solstice ... a day of luv.'

'The wedding was at her house. It was small and low-key. Only family and close friends,' a source told People on Sunday.

'Congrats!' Celebrity well wishers commenting on the image included Scooter Braun, Erin Foster, Ashley Benson, Jamie Lynn Sigler, Vanessa Lachey, and Bebe Rexha

'We had fun': Guests at the intimate affair included Superbad's McLovin himself, Christopher Mintz-Plasse

'Best night ever': The 32-year-old bride's big sister Haylie and The Walking Dead alum Alanna Masterson were also in attendance

Duff's stylist Jessica Paster shared a snap of some of the wedding flowers captioned: 'Winter solstice ... a day of luv'

'The ceremony started at sunset and they got married inside the house. When the ceremony was over, guests cheered. The reception was in a white tent...Her sister Haylie was very involved in the wedding prep too. Hilary and Haylie are very close.'

The former child star - who also wore a Jennifer Behr headband and Jimmy Choo heels - had her 'clean, modern, and bold' dress custom made in London by the 54-year-old designer.

Jenny embroidered the skirt of the gown with the couple's initials, wedding date, and the names of their 14-month-old daughter Banks and her son Luca (from her six-year marriage to NHL alum Mike Comrie).

'Maybe someday Banks will want to wear my dress and she can add to it. Jenny was kind enough to make Banksy's little dress too and it's the cutest thing I've ever seen,' the Haunting of Sharon Tate actress said in a BTS Vogue video.

Crafting the gown: The former child star - who also wore a Jennifer Behr headband and Jimmy Choo heels - had her 'clean, modern, and bold' dress custom made in London by the 54-year-old designer (pictured at final fitting)

Heirloom: Jenny embroidered the skirt of the gown with the couple's initials, wedding date, and the names of their 14-month-old daughter Banks and her son Luca from her six-year marriage to NHL alum Mike Comrie (pictured December 7)

The Haunting of Sharon Tate actress said in a Vogue video: 'Maybe someday Banks will want to wear my dress and she can add to it. Jenny was kind enough to make Banksy's little dress too and it's the cutest thing I've ever seen'

'Writing my vows was the hardest thing I've ever done, honestly. It's hard to have five minutes to tell someone all that they mean to you and all the things that you love about them and why.'

After the ceremony, Hilary changed into a gold bra-top and matching bell bottoms to dance the night away with Matthew, whom she met while collaborating on her 2015 album, Breathe In. Breathe Out.

Duff and Koma (born Bair) were engaged for seven months before their nuptials and their romance even survived a six-month split in 2017.

On Sunday, the blonde Texan and the Long Island musician flashed their wedding bands while staying at a hotel with a pretty man-made pond.

Golden girl! After the ceremony, Hilary changed into a gold bra-top and matching bell bottoms to dance the night away with Matthew, whom she met while collaborating on her 2015 album, Breathe In. Breathe Out

'Writing my vows was the hardest thing I've ever done, honestly': Duff and Koma were engaged for seven months before their nuptials and their romance survived a six-month split in 2017

The morning after: On Sunday, the blonde Texan and the Long Island musician flashed their wedding bands while staying at a hotel with a pretty man-made pond

Their holiday honeymoon won't last too long as Matthew's band Winnetka Bowling League is scheduled to kick off their 22-date tour on February 5 in Santa Cruz.

Back in July, TV Land renewed Hilary's sitcom Younger for a seventh season, in which she'll have to resume her role as Millennial Print publisher Kelsey Peters.

The homeschooled millennial is also due to start work on the upcoming Disney+ reboot of her Disney Channel series, Lizzie McGuire, which she's also producing.

Hitting the road soon: Their holiday honeymoon won't last too long as Matthew's band Winnetka Bowling League is scheduled to kick off their 22-date tour on February 5 in Santa Cruz (pictured December 4)