She recently moved into her $7.3million Melbourne mansion after nine months of extensive renovations.

And on Friday, AFL WAG Rebecca Judd showed off the family's home gym, while her AFL star husband Chris, 36, was working out.

Taking to Instagram, the 36-year-old gave fans a glimpse of the spacious new room, sharing footage of Chris exercising.

Home sweet home: Rebecca Judd (pictured) took to Instagram on Friday to show off her home gym after extensive renovations on her $7.3m Melbourne mansion

In the video, circuit equipment can be seen, including a weight bench, dumbbells and an exercise bike.

A Pilates reformer can also be seen.

Also visible are a collection of sports jerseys and memorabilia hung up on the white walls.

She captioned the video about Chris: '44 degrees and doing a circuit. Freak.'

Working out: Rebecca gave fans a glimpse of the new spacious room, while her husband Chris (pictured) was exercising

Spacious: In the video, a Pilates reformer, weight bench, dumbbells as well as an exercise bike can be seen

Apart from a gym, the mansion also has a tennis court, with a net on roller wheels allowing the court to turn into 'a footy oval or cricket pitch', and a magnesium salt pool.

Bec, Chris and their children son Oscar, eight, daughter Billie, five, and twin sons Tom and Darcy, three, moved into the home at the end of September.

In June, the brunette made headlines when she revealed the home's garage wasn't big enough to house her Range Rover.

Luxury: The mansion (pictured) also has a tennis court, with a net on roller wheels allowing the court to turn into 'a footy oval or cricket pitch', and a magnesium salt pool

Renovations: In June, Bec made headlines when she revealed the home's garage wasn't big enough to house her Range Rover and she had to spend $50,000 to expand the space (the home is seen before renovations)

Talking to KIIS FM's Jase & PJ, Bec said she couldn't even fit the front of her luxury car inside the garage and she and Chris had to spend $50,000 expanding the space.

'When you go to home inspections, you never think to drive your cars into the garage to see if they fit or not,' she admitted.

She then urged the radio show's listeners to 'measure the garage.'

Making it home: Rebecca also had steel glass windows installed and shared the process to her Instagram Story