Tom Holland gave a special happy birthday greeting to his Spider-Man: Far From Home co-star Jake Gyllenhaal on Instagram on Thursday, December 19.

On the very same day, the British-born star's first-ever meeting with Spies In Disguise co-star Will Smith, that was captured in a new video at an escape room, dropped on YouTube.

In both cases, Holland appeared to be very chummy with the two A-list actors.

Greetings mate! Tom Holland wished his Spider-Man: Far From Home co-star Jake Gyllenhaal a happy 39th birthday on Instagram on Thursday

To ring-in Gyllenhaal's 39th birthday, the Marvel actor shared a photo of the two stars cuddling up next to each other on a couch during their press tour over the summer.

'He’s the Mysterio to my Spider-man. Happy birthday mate. #husbandgoals,' Holland wrote in the caption.

Gyllenhaal wasted little time and reposted the same photo to his Instagram page and wrote, 'Thanks homie! #husbandgoals.'

The pair's on-screen skills helped catapult Spider-Man: Far From Home to become a massive hit, raking-in more than $1.132 billion at the worldwide box office since its release in late June.

Since then, the two have been very public with the affinity they have for each other during promotional stops and on social media.

Right back at you! Gyllenhaal reposted the same photo to his Instagram page

Mates! Holland and Gyllenhaal have been very chummy with each other during promotional stops for Spider-Man: Far From Home and on social media

The pair's on-screen skills helped catapult Spider-Man: Far From Home to become a massive hit, raking-in more than $1.132 billion at the worldwide box office since its release in late June

Holland and Will Smith provide the voices for the two main characters in the new animated movie Spies In Disguise

But, despite sharing the leading roles duties, the two had never met in person because they recorded all of their scenes separately.

When they finally did meet, it was captured at an escape room in an escape hotel in Los Angeles. Escape rooms are real-life adventure games where the players typically have a half-hour or full hour to complete a mission and escape the room by deciphering clues.

Holland and Smith's first-ever meeting was captured in a video shot at an escape room inside an escape hotel in Los Angeles

Teamed up: After meeting for the first time, the pair embarked on a 30-minute escape room adventure that included both guys being startled and frightened on more than one occasion

In the YouTube video, the pair explained why they never crossed paths, which then led to them embarking on their 30-minute adventure that included both guys being startled and frightened on more than one occasion.

At one point Holland, 'We probably look so stupid right now,' which Smith shot back, 'I'm sweating but we're going to get out of here.'

They eventually solved the puzzle and were free to go out of the escape room.

After hugging it out, the two new pals sat down side-by-side and announced Spies In Disguise opens in theaters on December 25.