A Turkish resort town, a Mexican region known for magic and mysticism and a vibrant tourist hot spot in South Korea are among the top places for Australians to visit in 2020.

Travel giant Expedia analysed the nation's holiday habits to rank the hottest up-and-coming destinations around the world, based on the highest increases in flight and accommodation bookings over the past 12 months.

Historic European destinations featured high on the list, with Turin in northern Italy offering extravagant palaces and world class architecture, and the Spanish resort of Marbella boasting miles of sandy beaches and year-round sunshine.

Lesser known paradises also ranked, including the ancient coastal town of Cesme in western Turkey and the Japanese city of Nagoya, the birthplace of both samurai and ninja culture.

Former hot spots are making a comeback, like Senggigi, which was once the main tourist strip on the popular Indonesian island of Lombok before it was overtaken by the likes of Kuta and the Gili Islands.

Travel giant Expedia analysed the nation's holiday habits to reveal the hottest destinations for Australians to visit in 2020, including the pristine paradise of the Pacific island of Samoa (pictured)

THE PACIFIC ISLANDS (BEYOND FIJI)

Expedia's research shows the Pacific Islands are increasingly piquing the interest of Australian travellers, with most growth in Vanuatu, the Cook Islands and Samoa.

With crystal clear spring pools, tropical green forests and a rich culture of ancient tribal customs, Samoa has plenty of offer couples, families and solo travellers alike.

Sitting in the turquoise water of the Pacific, the paradise of Samoa is just under six-hours flight from Sydney's Kingsford Smith Airport.

CESME, TURKEY

Famous for its 'healing' thermal springs and natural mud baths, the coastal resort of Cesme in western Turkey has been hailed as 'the go-to destination on the eastern European border' for 2020.

Steeped in history, Cesme is filled with brightly coloured houses, spas, affordable restaurants and a picturesque seafront promenade, meaning there's something to suit every taste in the ancient port.

Hotels in Cesme saw a whopping 105 percent increase in demand over the past 12 months, with travellers impressed by the authentic feel of the town, the bustling marketplace at its centre and the exotic sands of Ilica Beach, 15 minutes drive away.

Travellers love the exotic white sands of Ilica Beach (pictured), a short 15 minute drive from the historic resort of Cesme in Turkey's Izmir province

SENGGIGI, INDONESIA

The sandy seafront of Senggigi was once the main tourist strip on the popular Indonesian island of Lombok, before it was overtaken by the likes of Kuta and the Gili Islands.

But the resort is making a major comeback, thanks to its sweeping bays, surrounding jungle covered mountains and remarkably reasonable hotels and restaurants, many of which were devastated by the 2018 earthquakes.

Although much of the outskirts are yet to be rebuilt, the main resort has already recaptured much of the charm that made it a family-friendly favourite in its 1990s heyday.

OAXACA, MEXICO

Dubbed Mexico's next big thing, the southwestern region of Oaxaca region is the country's centre of culture and spirituality.

Known for its colonial history, vibrant art scene and world class food, the state is bursting with rich indigenous culture that sparks a sense of mysticism in Mexicans and foreign visitors alike.

The sprawling region is home to diverse landscapes, from lush green mountains to white sand beaches and tropical coast, with standout attractions like the petrified waterfalls of Hierve al Agua not to be missed.

The sprawling region of Oaxaca is home to diverse landscapes, from lush green mountains to white sand beaches and tropical coast, with standout attractions like the petrified waterfalls of Hierve al Agua (pictured) not to be missed

TURIN, ITALY

Known for its refined architecture and mouthwatering cuisine, the city of Turin in northern Italy has seen a 50 percent increase in demand among Australian travellers over the past year.

Often overlooked in favour of southern counterparts like Rome, Florence and Naples, the city boasts extravagant palaces, historic buildings, tree-lined boulevards and artistic cafes.

Sometimes called the 'Capital of Chocolate', Turin is also the birthplace of the modern chocolate bar, with the world's first chocolate candy - 'cioccolattino' - made in the city in the mid 1800s.

Often overlooked in favour of southern counterparts like Rome, Florence and Naples, Turin (pictured) boasts extravagant palaces, historic buildings, tree-lined boulevards and artistic cafes

MARBELLA, SPAIN

Sitting in a privileged position on Spain's Costa del Sol, the postcard resort of Marbella is the perfect destination for families, couples and groups of friends, boasting miles of sandy Mediterranean beaches and warm sunshine all year round.

Marbella is home to a glittering array of villas, hotels, restaurants and famous nightclubs, making it a favourite among the European jet set.

The Andalusian city saw a 35 percent increase in demand over the course of 2019.

BUSAN, SOUTH KOREA

With breathtaking beaches, temples and mouth-watering street food, Busan, South Korea's second largest city saw an almost 50 percent rise in demand in 2019.

Busan Tower, a 120-metre high tower with stunning views, Gamcheon Culture Village, a bustling district of colourful houses and streets and Heosimcheong Spa, one of the largest hot springs in the world, are among the city's must visit sights.

Busan is a little over 14 hours flight from Sydney's Kingsford Smith Airport, with a three hour layover in Taiwan.

With breathtaking beaches, temples and mouth-watering street food, Busan, South Korea's second largest city (pictured) saw an almost 50 percent rise in demand in 2019

NAGOYA, JAPAN

Australians are going off Japan's beaten track to explore lesser known cities like Nagoya in the country's centre, which enjoyed increased demand of more than 80 percent in 2019.

The birthplace of both samurai and ninja culture, today Nagoya is a modern day shipping hub renowned for its rich history and unique culinary experiences.

Nagoya is just over 14 hours flight from Sydney's Kingsford Smith Airport, with a short layover in Hong Kong.