Motorists who speed could find themselves without a licence this summer with double demerit points now in force.

They came into effect at midnight in New South Wales, the Australian Capital Territory and Western Australia.

With school now finished for the year, police will be out in greater numbers trying to catch speeding motorists heading away for the Christmas break.

New South Wales

Australia's most populated state is home to the Pacific Highway, where thousands of cars leave Sydney bound for beaches - from the Central Coast to Byron Bay and Tweed Heads on the Far North Coast.

Drivers caught speeding from today until New Year's Day have a greater chance of losing their licence.

Going 20km/h or more over the limit normally incurs four demerit points.

But during the next 12 days, this offence will be worth eight demerit points.

Motorists who speed could find themselves without a licence this summer with double demerit points now in force. They came into effect at midnight in New South Wales (pictured), the Australian Capital Territory and Western Australia

Being caught more than once, by a speed camera, on a long-distance drive would be enough for someone to lose their licence for three months.

NSW motorists are taken off the road if they incur 13 demerit points or more over a three-year time frame.

Double demerits also apply for drink driving, failing to wear a seat belt, not wearing a motorcycle helmet and using a mobile phone behind the wheel.

Drivers caught holding their phone will be hit with a $344 fine as well as up to 10 demerits.

Even though school finished on Wednesday, school zones will still apply today.

Australian Capital Territory

The nation's capital has the same double demerits regime as NSW.

All speed, seat belt and mobile phone offences will incur double demerit points, while all other traffic infringements will incur one extra demerit point.

Canberra motorists lose their licence once they incur 12 demerit points.

P-plate drivers will lose their licence for three months if they receive four or more demerit points.

The nation's capital has the same double demerits regime as NSW. All speed, seatbelt and mobile phone offences will incur double demerit points, while all other traffic infringements will incur one extra demerit point (pictured is a Canberra road)

Western Australia

Western Australia is far stricter than NSW and the ACT, and their double demerits period is even longer - stretching from today until January 5.

Offences include drink or drug driving, speeding, running a red light, failing to wear a seat belt or child restraint and using a mobile phone behind the wheel.

Motorists who cover up their number plates to evade speed cameras will also be punished.

If a driver accumulates 12 to 15 points, they will lose their licence for three months.

Those who rack up 16 to 19 demerit points are banned from the road for four months.

A five-month ban kicks in once someone gets 20 or more points.

Queensland doesn't have double demerit points for busy holiday periods like Christmas and New Year. Instead, the Sunshine State has an alternative system for repeat offenders who break the law twice in a year (pictured is the M1 motorway south of Brisbane)

Queensland

Queensland doesn't have double demerit points for busy holiday periods like Christmas and New Year.

Instead, the Sunshine State has an alternative system for repeat offenders who break the law twice in a year.

Drivers incur double demerit points for repeatedly failing to wear a seat belt, talking on a mobile phone while and driving 20km/h or more over the limit.

The first offence incurs four demerit points but doing it again within 12 months will see them slapped with eight demerit points.

Victoria, South Australia, the Northern Territory and Tasmania don't have double demerits

Victorian drivers don't face double demerits over the festive season, but they only need to accumulate 10 demerit points to lose their licence.

South Australia, Tasmania and the Northern Territory have the same rules, compared the the other states' limit of 11 points.