A cool change is expected to worsen conditions in Victoria, where bushfires rage in the east and west of the state.

Warnings remain in place on Friday night for two out-of-control fires in the west, following the state's hottest December day on record.

Residents in the townships of Amphitheatre, Chute, Langi Kal Kal, Lexton, Mount Lonarch and Waterloo - near Ballarat and the site of the Rainbow Music Festival - have been told it is too late to leave as a bushfire pushes towards their houses.

"You are in danger and need to act immediately to survive. The safest option is to take shelter indoors immediately. It is too late to leave," the emergency warning reads.

A similar warning for residents in Bamganie, Shelford, Teesdale - about 40 kilometres northwest of Geelong - has been downgraded to a watch-and-act warning though the fire is still not yet contained.

A cool change is expected to sweep across the state overnight and while it would bring some relief, the Bureau of Meteorology has warned it could also bring dry lightning which could spark fires as it passes through dry parts of the state.

It has issued a severe thunderstorm warning for western Victoria, with damaging winds forecast for Ballarat, Geelong, Horsham, Maryborough, Mildura and Warrnambool.

Three fires, meanwhile, continue to burn in the East Gippsland region, where a combined 500 firefighters from the County Fire Authority as well as aircraft are working to reduce their spread despite an increase in spotfires.

Emergency Services Commissioner Andrew Crisp said the firefighters were "well and truly prepared" to tackle the blazes, which started on November 21 and have burnt through 50,000 hectares.

One of the fires is threatening homes in Brookville - west of the Snowy River National Park - where a "watch and act" warning is in place.

"Don't wait, leaving now is the safest option - conditions may change and get worse very quickly," the warning says.

"Emergency services may not be able to help you if you decide to stay."

Residents are advised to leave their homes and take pets, medication and phones.

As of early Friday afternoon, Mr Crisp said 28 fires had ignited across the state although most had been extinguished quickly.

He advised people to monitor the VicEmergency website overnight.

"Stay aware of your surroundings and if you're travelling in unfamiliar places, make sure you're aware of the local risk," Mr Crisp said.

"Know how to stay informed and never rely on one source for emergency information."