Former Senator Al Franken (D-Minn.) compared Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) to serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer's following the Senate Majority Leader's comments regarding the impeachment of President Donald Trump.

Franken took to his Twitter on Thursday following comments from McConnell on the Senate floor.

'Listening to Mitch McConnell talk about the decline of bipartisanship is like listening to Jeffrey Dahmer complain about the decline of dinner party etiquette,' he said.

Scroll down for video

Former Senator AlFranken took to his Twitter on Thursday following comments from Mitch McConnell on the Senate floor

'Listening to Mitch McConnell talk about the decline of bipartisanship is like listening to Jeffrey Dahmer complain about the decline of dinner party etiquette,' he said

Dahmer, a convicted sex offender, was sent to prison in 1991 after he confessed to killing 17 men and boys between the ages of 14 to 33.

Dahmer, a convicted sex offender, was sent to prison in 1991 after he confessed to killing 17 men and boys between the ages of 14 to 33

His brutal murders, which spanned a decade from 1978, included rape, torture, dismemberment, necrophilia and cannibalism. He was beaten to death by fellow inmate Christopher Scarver in 1994.

McConnell, during his Thursday floor remarks, condemned House Democrats for their movement toward impeachment.

'Let's be clear: the House's vote yesterday was not some neutral judgment. It was the predetermined end of a partisan crusade,' McConnell said.

McConnell claimed that the effort to impeach was 'slapdash' and added that the effort was 'the most rushed, least thorough, and most unfair impeachment inquiry in modern history.'

He also criticized Democrats on the Senate floor, accusing them of creating what he called an 'unfair, unfinished product'— charges that stemmed from 'partisan rage.'

Calling Pelosi's work 'constitutionally incoherent,' he said impeaching a president on the basis of political disagreements would 'invite an endless parade of impeachable trials' in the future, making House leaders 'free to toss up a jump-ball every time they feel angry.

McConnell said that it would be senators' role to act as a 'judge and jury' in the trial of President Donald Trump, but later told reporters, 'I'm not an impartial juror.'

Removing Trump from office would require a two-thirds majority of those present and voting in the 100-member Senate, meaning Democrats would have to persuade at least 20 Republicans to join with them to end Trump's presidency.