Top sprinter Matthew Glaetzer is a confirmed Australian selection for the world track cycling championships as he battles cancer.

Last year's sprint world champion and a key member of the Australian squad ahead of the Tokyo Olympics, Glaetzer is undergoing treatment for thyroid cancer.

But since his health scare became public in late October, Glaetzer has said repeatedly that he plans to compete at the worlds and then in Tokyo next year.

Berlin is a crucial stepping stone for the track squad ahead of the Olympics.

Glaetzer needed surgery and then returned to win a silver and two bronze medals in sprint events over the last fortnight at the New Zealand and Brisbane World Cup rounds.

Immediately after the Brisbane round last weekend, Glaetzer resumed cancer treatment.

Glaetzer is among several health and injury issues for the powerful Australian team ahead of the February 26-March 1 world championships in the German capital.

Annette Edmondson, a vital member of the world champion women's team pursuit squad, needed surgery this week after breaking her collarbone in racing at the Brisbane round but it should not impact her worlds preparations too dramatically.

Tim Decker, the coach of the men's and women's track endurance squads, is also out of action after brain surgery and it is unclear when he will return.

Decker had an operation in late November to fix a brain bleed.

Like the women, the men's team pursuit squad are reigning world champions.

Samuel Welsford, Alexander Porter, Kelland O'Brien, Leigh Howard and Cameron Scott will defend their title in Berlin, while nine-time track world champion Cameron Meyer rounds out the men's track endurance squad.

Edmondson, Ashlee Ankudinoff, Georgia Baker, Amy Cure and Alexandra Manly also will aim for successive world team pursuit world titles while Maeve Plouffe is set to make her world championhips debut.

Reigning team sprint world champions Stephanie Morton and Kaarle McCulloch will join Glaetzer, Nathan Hart and Matthew Richardson in the sprint group.

Australia won six gold medals at last year's world championships, with the other three coming in non-Olympic events.