WARNING GRAPHIC CONTENT

A man has made the horrific discovery of 11 decapitated kangaroo heads lying in the middle of the Australian outback.

The animal carcasses were found last month in the Blue Mountains of New South Wales and had all been killed for commercial purposes.

In a video shared to the Kangaroos Alive Facebook page, the man described that many of the animals had been beaten to death - despite regulations that require hunters to shoot them in the head so they die humanely.

'This one was shot in the neck and immobilised on the ground, to a point where the shooter could approach him and put his boot on him or belt him with an iron bar,' he said.

'So he's been beaten to death, he's died from secondary trauma. The bullet wasn't the primary cause of death.

'They can't seem to achieve the kill shot that the industry promotes.'

He said one of the kangaroos that was shot was a juvenile while many had no bullets to their head at all - meaning they were killed in other ways.

Mangled and bloodied tails were also found in the area.

The animal carcasses (pictured) were found last month in the Blue Mountains of New South Wales and had all been killed for commercial purposes.

The decapitated kangaroos comes after another attack on the Australian animal.

Last moth around 40 mangled kangaroo carcasses turned up rotting in a field after being shot, decapitated and disemboweled in Dunkeld, 260km west of Melbourne.

Heads, tails, paws and entrails were left sprawled across the field, leaving residents horrified.

In Australia hunters must hold a license to shoot kangaroos commercially.

The National Code of Practice for the Humane Shooting of Kangaroos and Wallabies for Commercial Purposes states the animal must be shot in its brain so it 'minimises pain and suffering'.

The code also says the animals must only be killed with a firearm.

There are nearly double the amount of people in Australia as there are kangaroos, and many see them as pests because they cause damage to fences, eat fodder and crops, and are dangerous for drivers.

According to Animals Australia, 1.34 million kangaroos were killed for the commercial industry in 2016.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted RSPCA NSW for comment.