He's one of the most prolific showrunners in Hollywood.

And on Thursday, cameras started rolling on another of Ryan Murphy's Netflix projects - the period drama series Hollywood.

Actor Darren Criss was seen on set in Los Angeles with actresses Laura Harrier and Samara Weaving dressed in 1940s attire for the show dubbed by Murphy as a 'love letter to the Golden Age of Tinseltown.'

Filming: Darren Criss was seen on set in LA Thursday with actresses Laura Harrier and Samara Weaving, all dressed in 1940s attire, for Ryan Murphy's new Netflix series Hollywood

Former Glee star Criss, who worked with Murphy on The Assassination of Gianni Versace: American Crime Story, is not only starring in the series but is also serving as an executive producer.

The 32-year-old was in costume as a gas attendant for the scenes filmed on a vintage gas station set, wearing a cropped white jacket, black trousers and a yellow hat.

Harrier, 29, and Weaving, 27, wore cleavage baring red ensembles with fur wraps and red heels.

Their hair was styled in 40's looks and they wore scarlet red lip color.

Period drama: The 32-year-old actor was in costume as a gas attendant, wearing a cropped white jacket, black trousers and a yellow hat. Harrier, 29, and Weaving, 27, wore cleavage baring red ensembles with fur wraps and red heels

Also on set was actor Dylan McDermott, 58, who was almost unrecognizable with slicked back gray hair and a gray mustache.

He wore a white zipper jacket over a white shirt and long black tie along with white trousers.

The former star of the legal drama series The Practice has also worked with Murphy previously, appearing in three seasons of his anthology series American Horror Story as well as his recent series for Netflix, The Politician.

Star-studded: Also on set was actor Dylan McDermott, 58, who was almost unrecognizable with slicked back gray hair and a gray mustache. He wore a white ensemble with long black tie

In leading roles alongside Criss are David Corenswet, 26, who also appeared in The Politician, and Broadway star Jeremy Pope, 27.

Several other of Murphy's frequent collaborators are also in the cast including Jim Parsons. Joe Mantello and Patti LuPone.

And this week, Deadline reported that Rob Reiner and Mira Sorvino have signed on for guest roles.

Little else is known about the series except that Murphy created it with his Glee, Scream Queens and The Politician collaborator Ian Brennan and it's scheduled to premiere on Netflix in May 2020.