Dwyane Wade has gotten candid about raising his 12-year-old child Zion.

The 37-year-old ex-NBA star was a guest on a recent episode of the podcast All The Smoke hosted by Matt Barnes and Stephen Jackson.

Dwyane, who used the pronoun 'she,' said of Zion, whom he fathered through a previous relationship and now raises with his wife Gabrielle Union: 'I watched my son from day one becoming to who she now eventually is coming to.'

Forthright: Dwayne Wade has gotten candid about raising his 12-year-old child Zion

Gabrielle, 47, recently posted a Thanksgiving pic of herself with Dwyane, their one-year-old daughter Kaavia and little Zion.

Zion was wearing a crop top and fake nails leading to online trolling that Dwyane responded to by writing that 'I’ve been chosen to lead my family not y’all. So we will continue to be us and support each other with pride, love & a smile!'

On the podcast Dwyane shared that when it comes to 'strength and courage, my 12-year-old has way more than I have. You know what I mean? You can learn something from your kids, you know. But in our household, man, that’s all we talk about. We talk about making sure our kids be seen by each of us.'

He went on: 'Me and my wife, man, we talk about making sure our kids, you know, understand that they’re, you know, the power in their voice, you know? You know, we want them to be whoever they feel that they can be in this world.'

Esteemed company: The 37-year-old ex-NBA star was a guest on a recent episode of the podcast All The Smoke hosted by Matt Barnes and Stephen Jackson

Dwyane clarified: 'Now there’s some things that’s gonna, you know, while you’re trying to go down that process, this is what’s gonna come at you. There’s gonna be a lot of negativity. There’s gonna be a lot of hate. And it’s not even just for my son’s sexuality. It’s just about being a young black man, or a young black woman, right?'

He explained that 'when I respond to things socially, I’m not responding because you hurt my feelings. I’m not responding because I even care enough of what you’re saying, because it’s – as we say in the hood, it’s ignant.'

Said Dwyane: 'Why I’m responding is because I understand my platform. I understand that I’m speaking for a lot of people that don’t have the same voice that I have, right, as a father. Or, you know, I’m even speaking for my 12-year-old right now because I haven’t to sit in front of a microphone yet.'

The retired athlete added: 'But I’m speaking for, you know, for so many others, you know, in the LGBTQ+ community.'

Open conversation: He said of Zion, who used the pronoun 'she', whom he raises with Gabrielle Union: 'I watched my son from day one becoming to who she now eventually is coming to'

He confessed that 'I had to look myself in the mirror when my son at the time was 3 years old. And my and my wife started having conversations about, you know, us noticing that, you know, he wasn’t on the boy vibe that Zaire was on.'

Dwyane 'had to look myself in the mirror and say: "What if your son come home and tell you he’s gay? What are you gonna do? How are you gonna be? How are you gonna act?" It ain’t about him. He knows who he is. It’s about you. Who are you?'

He argued: 'So all these people that’s out there saying those things, look at yourself. Understand that you the one that got the issues. You the one that got the problems. It’s not the kids. It’s not the ones who decide. That you decide that: "Yeah, they born a certain way," and you say they gotta be that way. That’s not life, man.'

Dwyane said of Zion, using the pronoun 'she' in the interview: 'I watched my son from day one becoming to who she now eventually is coming to. You know what I’m saying? And for me it’s all about, nothing changes in my love. Nothing changes in my responsibilities.'

Happy holidays: Gabrielle, 47, recently posted a Thanksgiving pic of herself with Dwyane, their one-year-old daughter Kaavia and little Zion

The onetime Miami Heat player said: 'So only thing I gotta do now is get smarter and educate myself more, and that’s my job.'

He credits Gabrielle for that education, dishing that 'I am the man I am from that standpoint because of being around someone who’s been so cultured, you know what I mean? That she came in, she let me – she gave me some different lenses to look through of life. It changed my whole perspective.'

Dwyane recalled that 'I grew up with the same perspective as a lot of these people out here that’s a little ignant. You know what I mean? I grew up with a similar perspective, right? And you meet people on the way that help you take those glasses off and put on some different ones.'

Now he is able to 'Look through life through a different lens, and that’s what my wife has been able to do so it’s been cool, man.'