MACAO (AP) - Beijing loyalist Ho Iat Seng was inaugurated Friday as China's chief executive in the tiny gambling enclave of Macao, which unlike neighboring Hong Kong has remained free of pro-democracy protests.

The 62-year-old businessman read his oath of office in front of Chinese leader Xi Jinping at a ceremony Friday morning.

Both men delivered speeches stressing the importance of the "one country, two systems" framework under which the former Portuguese colony has been ruled since its handover to China in 1999.

Unlike in Hong Kong, where months of anti-government protests have wracked the former British colony, Macao has remained overwhelmingly calm, a reflection of its close ties to and economic dependence on mainland China.

In his address, Ho pledged improvements to the territory's administration, infrastructure, transportation and economy, reflecting calls for it to diversify away from its heavy dependence on the gambling industry.

Xi's speech focused overwhelmingly on the need for strict adherence to "one country, two systems," which has come under sharp criticism in Hong Kong, where the opposition says China is chipping at civil liberties it promised the two territories would retain under Chinese rule.

Chinese President Xi Jinping, right, and new Macao Chief Executive Ho Iat Seng arrive for the inauguration ceremony in Macao, Friday, Dec. 20, 2019, marking the 20th anniversary of the former Portuguese colony's handover to Chinese rule. Beijing loyalist Ho was inaugurated Friday as China's chief executive in the tiny gambling enclave of Macao, which unlike neighboring Hong Kong has remained free of pro-democracy protests. (AP Photo)

"One country" is the prerequisite and basis of "two systems," Xi said. "Only by ensuring no distortion of the `one country, two systems' practice can the cause of `one country, two systems' go far and steady."

Xi also reiterated that Macao and Hong Kong were purely China's internal affairs and Beijing would "absolutely not allow" foreign interference, a line that received warm applause from the audience of local politicians, members of the business elite and invited foreign guests.

The city of just 632,000 people was placed in a security lockdown for Xi's visit, including barring political activists and journalists from Hong Kong.

Even without the heavy security, Xi would likely have seen little in the way of protests or calls for greater democracy or self-rule.

Chinese President Xi Jinping speaks during the inauguration ceremony in Macao, Friday, Dec. 20, 2019 to mark the 20th anniversary of the former Portuguese colony's handover to Chinese rule. Beijing loyalist Ho Iat Seng was inaugurated Friday as China's chief executive in the tiny gambling enclave of Macao, which unlike neighboring Hong Kong has remained free of pro-democracy protests. (AP Photo)

Chinese President Xi Jinping speaks during the inauguration ceremony in Macao, Friday, Dec. 20, 2019 to mark the 20th anniversary of the former Portuguese colony's handover to Chinese rule. Beijing loyalist Ho Iat Seng was inaugurated Friday as China's chief executive in the tiny gambling enclave of Macao, which unlike neighboring Hong Kong has remained free of pro-democracy protests. (AP Photo)

A man walks by a shopping mall as a TV screen broadcasts live of Chinese President Xi Jinping, right, shaking hands with new elected officer during an inauguration ceremony for the 20th anniversary of the former Portuguese colony's handover to Chinese rule, in Beijing, Friday, Dec. 20, 2019. Beijing loyalist Ho Iat Seng was inaugurated Friday as China's chief executive in the tiny gambling enclave of Macao, which unlike neighboring Hong Kong has remained free of pro-democracy protests. (AP Photo/Andy Wong)

Macao Chief Executive Ho Iat Seng, left, reads his oath of office in front of Chinese leader Xi Jinping at the inauguration ceremony in Macao, Dec. 20, 2019 to mark the 20th anniversary of the former Portuguese colony's handover to Chinese rule. Beijing loyalist Ho was inaugurated as China's chief executive in the tiny gambling enclave of Macao, which unlike neighboring Hong Kong has remained free of pro-democracy protests. (AP Photo)

Chinese President Xi Jinping waves during the inauguration ceremony in Macao, Friday, Dec. 20, 2019 to mark the 20th anniversary of the former Portuguese colony's handover to Chinese rule. Beijing loyalist Ho Iat Seng was inaugurated Friday as China's chief executive in the tiny gambling enclave of Macao, which unlike neighboring Hong Kong has remained free of pro-democracy protests. (AP Photo)

Macao Chief Executive Ho Iat Seng, left, poses with Chinese leader Xi Jinping for a photo after taking his oath at the inauguration ceremony in Macao, Friday, Dec. 20, 2019 to mark the 20th anniversary of the former Portuguese colony's handover to Chinese rule. Beijing loyalist Ho was inaugurated Friday as China's chief executive in the tiny gambling enclave of Macao, which unlike neighboring Hong Kong has remained free of pro-democracy protests. (AP Photo)

Macao Chief Executive Ho Iat Seng speaks during the inauguration ceremony in Macao, Friday, Dec. 20, 2019 to mark the 20th anniversary of the former Portuguese colony's handover to Chinese rule. Beijing loyalist Ho was inaugurated Friday as China's chief executive in the tiny gambling enclave of Macao, which unlike neighboring Hong Kong has remained free of pro-democracy protests. (AP Photo)

Commuters get off a train near a TV screen showing a live telecast of Macao's new Chief Executive Ho Iat Seng delivering a speech at an inauguration ceremony for the 20th anniversary of the former Portuguese colony's handover to Chinese rule, at a subway station in Beijing, Friday, Dec. 20, 2019. Beijing loyalist Ho was inaugurated Friday as China's chief executive in the tiny gambling enclave of Macao, which unlike neighboring Hong Kong has remained free of pro-democracy protests. (AP Photo/Andy Wong)