The talks between North Korea and the US are 'more important than anything', the South told China today.

Keeping up momentum for discussions between America and North Korea is of vital importance, South Korean President Moon Jae-in told Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing on Monday.

North Korea has set a year-end deadline for the United States to change what it says is a policy of hostility amid a stalemate in efforts to make progress on their pledge to end the North's nuclear program and establish lasting peace.

Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, and US President Donald Trump have met three times since June 2018, but there has been no substantive progress in dialogue while the North demanded crushing international sanctions be lifted first.

On Saturday, North Korean state media said the United States would 'pay dearly' for taking issue with the North's human rights record and said Washington's 'malicious words' would only aggravate tensions on the Korean Peninsula.

South Korean President Moon Jae-in (left) shaking hands with his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping ahead of their meeting at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing today

North Korean leader Kim Jong-un speaking during a ruling party meeting in North Korea on Sunday. A fourth summit between Kim and President Trump is trying to be arranged

China is North Korea's most important diplomatic backer and trading partner, and Moon took his message about the significance of talks straight to Xi.

'It is more important than anything to keep up the momentum for dialogue between North Korea and the United States,' Moon said, according to his spokeswoman Ko Min-jung who was present at the meeting in Beijing's Great Hall of the People.

Ko cited Xi as saying that many people are concerned about the tense situation on the Korean peninsula.

'China and South Korea should gather strength to help North Korea and the United States sustain the momentum for dialogue,' she cited Xi as saying.

Earlier, Moon's office quoted him as saying that the suspension of US-North Korea talks and rising tensions was not beneficial for South Korea, China or North Korea.

Xi told Moon that China supports South Korea's efforts to improve ties with North Korea and inject new impetus into promoting peace talks, China's Foreign Ministry said.

The Chinese president expressed concerns over rising tension between North Korea and the US, calling for them to maintain the momentum for dialogue.

Xi made the comments to Moon Jae-in during their summit in Beijing, according to Moon's spokeswoman Ko Min-jung.

He reportedly said: 'There are many people concerned about the tense situation on the Korean peninsula.

'China and South Korea should gather strength to help North Korea and the United States sustain the momentum for dialogue.'

South Korean President Moon Jae-in (fourth right) and Chinese President Xi Jinping (third left) hold talks at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing

President Donald Trump meeting with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un at the North Korean side of the border at the village of Panmunjom in Demilitarized Zone in June

China and South Korea both advocate that the Korean peninsula issue be resolved through dialogue and consultation and are a 'firm force for maintaining stability and promoting talks', the ministry paraphrased Xi as saying.

Moon is visiting China for a trilateral meeting between him, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Chinese Premier Li Keqiang in the southwestern city of Chengdu.

Abe is due to meet Xi in Beijing later in the day before he heads to Chengdu.

Though various economic matters will also be on the agenda - as well as tensions between Seoul and Tokyo - North Korea appears likely to dominate the agenda.

US special envoy for North Korea Stephen Biegun met with two senior Chinese diplomats during his two-day visit to Beijing last week, following similar meeting in South Korea and Japan days earlier, as diplomats make last-ditch attempts to prevent new confrontation.

Beijing, jointly with Russia, proposed last week that the United Nations Security Council lift some sanctions in what it calls an attempt to break the current deadlock and seek to build support.

But it's unclear whether Beijing can convince Seoul and Tokyo to break ranks from Washington, which has made its opposition clear and can veto any resolution.

Though South Korea sees China as instrumental in reviving negotiations, it has so far sidestepped questions on whether it supports the new proposal by Beijing and Moscow.

Japan, which has historically been a staunch supporter of sanctions against North Korea, has also refrained from commenting on the proposal.