He doesn't say much, but young Afghani spinner Qais Ahmad can let his Big Bash League actions do the talking.

The 19-year-old starred for the Hobart Hurricanes in their 25-run win over the Sydney Sixers on Friday, taking 4-12 and producing a run-out and front-flip celebration.

Chasing just 130 for victory in Alice Springs, the Sixers lost a staggering 7-13 in 21 balls as Ahmad wreaked havoc before they folded for 104 in the penultimate over.

Three of Ahmad's scalps came within four balls in a dramatic 10th over.

He bowled Sam Curran with a perfectly pitched leg-break, had Sean Abbott stumped and then bowled leftie Ben Dwarshuis through the gate

Ahmad earlier ran out opener Daniel Hughes in the opening over to spark a sensational solo performance.

Ahmad, who speaks limited English, now has 11 wickets in his four games for the Hurricanes after joining the team as an overseas import at the back-end of last season.

"That was probably his wicket to a tee and he made the most of it," Hobart skipper Ben McDermott told reporters, adding he urged his teammate to pull out the flip celebration.

"He did it once at training. I was yelling out 'do it, do it' when he got the wicket.

"He's a very wily character, always buzzing around. He doesn't talk too much but he makes up for it with his energy."

The Sixers had a bright start in pursuit of the Hurricanes 9-129, reaching 1-48 in the seventh over.

But it all turned pear-shaped on a slow-and-low pitch at Traeger Park where nearly all batsmen struggled.

"We may have got ahead of ourselves a little bit in that chase," Sixers' captain Moises Henriques conceded.

"It's something to learn from, especially considering we've been a very confident chasing team in the past. It was very manageable."

Young talent Josh Philippe hit 24 but couldn't replicate his efforts from the Sixers' opening-game win over Perth.

Ahmad had support from tall quick Riley Meredith, who bowled 15 dot balls in figures of 1-10 off four overs.

D'Arcy Short earlier top scored for Hobart with 51 after they opted to bat in scorching 40C-plus heat.

Last season's highest run-scorer, Short shared a valuable half-century stand with McDermott, who fell victim to rookie off-spinner Ben Manenti for 15.

Manenti (2-28) had Short caught behind in the 13th over before the Hurricanes fell away chasing big shots.

Replacing the unavailable Matthew Wade at opener, youngster Caleb Jewell made just four before holing out to Abbott (3-20).