They were married for eight years before splitting in 2017, and now they can put this part of their lives behind them once and for all.

Black Eyed Peas singer Fergie and Transformers actor Josh Duhamel have settled their divorce, which also entailed reaching a shared custody agreement pertaining to their son Axl, six.

According to court documents obtained by Entertainment Tonight on Thursday, the estranged pair have agreed to share joint legal and physical custody of their child, further stipulating that neither parent will be receiving child support or alimony since they both identify as 'fully self-supporting' individuals.

Married no more: Singer Fergie and actor Josh Duhamel have settled their divorce, which also entailed reaching a shared custody agreement pertaining to their son Axl; seen here in 2016

The finalized divorce also means that Fergie, 44, will shed her married name and once again legally take on her maiden moniker, Stacy Ann Ferguson.

Fergie and Duhamel, 47, made their separation public in September 2017, but it wasn't until May of this year that Fergie officially filed paperwork for a divorce in Pasadena, California, courthouse.

Only last month did the couple file the necessary documentation to officially terminate the marriage.

'Fergie has always put health and parenting first in her life. She is finally ready to say [her marriage] is over for good and that's what led her to file for divorce,' a source told the entertainment outlet.

Agreement: The estranged pair will share joint legal and physical custody of their child, further stipulating that neither parent will be receiving child support or alimony

'Fergie finally had the strength to say her marriage to Josh was over once and for all.'

Up until now, the estranged pair have amicably worked out co-parenting responsibilities for their son.

In their official statement to the press in 2017 pertaining to their separation, they said 'We are and will always be united in our support of each other and our family.'

Mom first: 'Fergie has always put health and parenting first in her life. She is finally ready to say [her marriage] is over for good and that's what led her to file for divorce,' a source said; seen here on Instagram last month with Axl

Last December, Josh spoke fondly of Fergie when he visited the Armchair Expert podcast with Dax Shepard:

'Fergie and I had a great relationship. I love that girl and I always will. Unfortunately, we didn’t work. But I will always have her back and she is the mother of my baby.'

In terms of new romantic prospects for the freshly — and legally — single exes, Duhamel has been linked to former Miss World America Audra Mari.

Fergie and Duhamel wed in 2009, after five years of dating.