Australian supermodel Megan Gale enjoyed an 'interesting' date night with her hunky fiance Shaun Hampson on Wednesday night.

The 44-year-old beauty and the former AFL star attended the premiere of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker in Melbourne.

At the event, the genetically-blessed duo playfully posed with two Star Wars' Stormtroopers.

Intergalactic Love! Megan Gale attended the premiere of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker in Melbourne on Wednesday night with fiance Shaun Hampson

Megan has been in a relationship with the former ruckman for over eight years, and the pair share two children River, five, and Rosie, two.

Mother-of-two Megan looked stunning in a black spaghetti strap jumpsuit that highlighted her enviable pins.

She accesorised her look with a pair of black strap heels and wore her trademark raven hair in a chic straight middle part.

Statuesque: Mother-of-two Megan looked stunning in a black spaghetti strap jumpsuit that highlighted her enviable pins

Meanwhile, Shaun looked handsome as ever in a pair of dark blue denim jeans and a black shirt.

In another photograph, Megan and Shaun were seen posing beneath a replica Tie Fighter spaceship from the famous film series.

The statuesque duo towered over two Stormtroopers and an Imperial Guard.

'I call him my IT support': Despite juggling busy careers and raising two young children, Megan and Shaun appear to proritise quality couple time

Despite juggling busy careers and raising two young children, Megan and Shaun appear to proritise quality couple time.

The lovebirds are often seen posing together in adorable snaps on each other's Instagram.

Speaking to 7News in October, Megan spoke of her relationship with the football star and credited her beau, who appeared on the last season of Australian Survivor, with supporting her business ventures.

'I call him my IT support,' she joked. 'He’s also very good with a spreadsheet and finances and has a good head for business too.'

She also opened up about having more children with Shaun, explaining: 'I don't want to rush and have a third child because of my age.'