After a restless night's sleep with one eye open, residents who fled the fatal Green Wattle Creek firestorm are anxiously waiting to see whether their properties are among the dozens potentially destroyed.

Hundreds of locals who gathered at the Picton Bowling Club evacuation centre after the blaze tore through the Wollondilly Shire southwest of Sydney on Thursday aren't sure when they'll be allowed to return home.

But they know their Christmas won't be merry.

Hilltop local Ricky Hopkins has been stuck at the bowling club since Thursday afternoon when he returned from visiting his partner in Campbelltown.

"Mum and dad are fine as far as I know, I've had contact with them all night and this morning," the 30-year-old told AAP on Friday.

"I'm just hoping nothing drastic happens while I'm here."

The doors of the bowling club are spray-painted with the seasonal greetings "Merry Christmas" and "Happy New Year".

Mr Hopkins has seen many locals in tears and when he asks if they're OK they say they're fine.

"But deep down I know they're not - how are you supposed to comprehend losing everything," he said.

"It's supposed to be a good time and it's actually a disaster. It's not too merry at the moment."

Two volunteer NSW firefighters died on Thursday night when a tree fell into the path of their tanker which then rolled near Buxton.

Three other firies were rushed to Sydney hospitals earlier in the day with serious burns.

Janine and Allan Gilroy, both aged in their 70s, evacuated from Tahmoor with dozens of Cavalier King Charles Spaniels in the back of their vehicles.

Ms Gilroy - who breeds the dogs for show - spent the night sleeping on the ground at the bowling club next to a pen of puppies wrapped in a doona.

"I slept there, sort of with one eye open," she told AAP.

"It just got a little bit cool about 2am in the morning. I'm hoping we can get home later today."

A briefing was held at the club on Friday morning for locals.

Some residents are frustrated they weren't allowed to clear land before the inferno.

Ian Turner, who owns 10 hectares including a house and business in Tahmoor, says he's been fighting Wollondilly Shire Council for three years for permission to clear undergrowth.

"They refused, I went ahead and did it and now I face fines because I've done that," he told AAP.

"But I would do the whole thing again because they used the cleared land as a staging area last night. They put six brigades in there and they fought and saved the houses either side."

Mr Turner argues indigenous people previously cleared the land but now local bureaucrats think they're smarter.

Wollondilly mayor Matthew Deeth and local state MP Nathaniel Smith told the community meeting - including people who lost their homes - they'll push for changes, Mr Turner said.

Mr Smith, a Liberal MP, has written to NSW Environment Minister Matt Kean and Emergency Services Minister David Elliott asking for larger fire breaks between national parks and villages.

He also wants fire trails to be widened.

"We've got to learn lessons from this and there will be a review after this and we'll act accordingly," Mr Smith told AAP.

He paid tribute to the two volunteer firefighters who died saying "those guys are heroes".

"They're out there saving our homes and saving our lives and they lost theirs, so my prayers and thoughts go to their family and to their crew too."

An emergency warning remains current for the 170,000-hectare Green Wattle Creek fire.