Vault Interiors director Justine Wilson

An interior design expert has revealed the top five trends homeowners can expect to see in the new decade, including sunken outdoor lounges, colourful wallpaper and sustainable materials.

Director of Vault Interiors, Justine Wilson, believes that to stay ahead of the styling curve Australians will want to invest in soft oak furnishings and nature-inspired colour schemes.

'Next year is not like any other year, it represents the beginning of a completely new interior landscape and some new emerging trends with the ever-evolving rise of technology, changes in human behavioural patterns in the home, and an unlimited range of options available to us,' Ms Wilson told FEMAIL.

BYRON BOHO

Ms Wilson coined this phrase to represent the rise of an interiors movement molded around fashion Instagram influencers who all seem to live the idyllic life in Byron Bay.

The look combines a pared back boho feel (signified by travertine coffee tables and dining tables) with crisp white linen armchairs and sofas (usually with a slipcover).

'The trend also includes large sisal rugs, rattan sideboards and media units and decorated lots of dried floral like palm fronds and orchids. The colour palette is very relaxed and washed out like the coastal environment,' she said.

For furniture think soft oaks and painted walls in cream and white.

Introduce a few washed linen terracotta and olive cushion accents and a potted olive tree in a large rustic stone pot - the perfect accessory for this look.

The look combines a pared back boho feel (signified by travertine coffee tables and dining tables) with crisp white linen armchairs and sofas (usually with a slipcover)

'The trend also includes large sisal rugs, rattan sideboards and media units and decorated lots of dried floral like palm fronds and orchids,' she said

ORGANIC SPACES

From sunken outdoor lounge pits made of concrete to rendered or sand bagged walls and large handmade tiles, these are the characteristics of an organic space.

'Instead of stand-alone furniture areas, people will opt for furniture built into the landscape or designed to be an extension of the building, such as large outdoor bench seats, round concrete tables and outdoor kitchens made from earthy rustic-looking rendered walls,' Ms Wilson said.

It's an idea that is Mediterranean in origin, so if you have been to the Greek islands those iconic rounded shapes will give you an idea of the overall look.

It's the perfect look for an alfresco space, giving a luxe resort-style feel to your garden.

From sunken outdoor lounge pits made of concrete to rendered or sand bagged walls and large handmade tiles, these are the characteristics of an organic space

It's an idea that is Mediterranean in origin, so if you have been to the Greek islands those iconic rounded shapes will give you an idea of the overall look

AUSTRALIANA HUES

Cushions, art and accessories will lean towards an Australiana palette in 2020.

'We will see colours from the bush, the red desert and the coast,' Ms Wilson said.

'Rusty and earthy tones like orange, red, terracotta, mustard and brown will be popular along with the more coastal tones such as deep-sea green, olive, emerald and navy. Popular fabrics will include velvet, linen and woolen fabrics, texture as much as tone.'

People are gravitating to more unique and local handmade items like pottery and ceramics when it comes to accessories, which sees a shift from the coloured glass and metallics finishes that have been on trend the last few years.

'Pair a handmade vase with simple floral such as twigs, an overscale bunch or greenery for a table centrepiece. Source handmade crockery and a linen table runner to create the look,' she said.

'We will see colours from the bush, the red desert and the coast,' Ms Wilson said

'Pair a handmade vase with simple floral such as twigs, an overscale bunch or greenery for a table centrepiece,' she said

WALL ART

Wallpaper has been overlooked the last few years after it enjoyed a resurgence in the early 2000s.

However Ms Wilson believes large overscale floral prints, Aztec designs and geometric shape designs will be back on trend in 2020.

'Instead of a feature wall, full rooms are now being done to create an impactful visual feature - even the ceilings,' she said.

'For a more glam or traditional property, install wooden wainscoting or dado rails painted in rich colours, paired with busy bold wallpaper on top. For more modern homes, grass cloth wallpaper in deep colours will continue to be on trend.'

Wallpaper has been overlooked the last few years after it enjoyed a resurgence in the early 2000s

However Ms Wilson believes large overscale floral prints, Aztec designs and geometric shape designs will be back on trend in 2020

SUSTAINABLE STYLING

This year all things eco made an appearance but 2020 is going to be even bigger.

While the emergence of this trend might seem sudden, the interest in going green has been gaining traction for a few years now.

'Reducing carbon footprint, the materials and products we use in our spaces in is becoming increasingly important,' she said.

While the emergence of this trend might seem sudden, the interest in going green has been gaining traction for a few years now

'Reducing carbon footprint, the materials and products we use in our spaces in is becoming increasingly important,' she said

In 2020 more Australians are going to be looking at ways to reduce their energy consumption, such as installing quality windows with good insulation and reducing waste by placing emphasis on products that can be re-purposed or reused.'

Green homes tend to be happy homes, and often, these measures encourage a better environment for their occupants too.

If you think about it this way, knowing what materials, designs and furnishings to use becomes easier.