She's one of the biggest pop stars in the world, and she isn't interested in taking any chances.

Taylor Swift, star of the new musical movie adaptation Cats, required intensive personalized security while filming the project, The Sun reports.

Swift, 32, reportedly called on the services of a well known British strongman who has previously worked for the likes of Matt Damon to watch over her while on set.

Paws off: Taylor Swift, star of the new musical movie adaptation Cats, required intensive personalized security while filming the project

The Lover songstress plays Bombalurina in the film based on the Andrew Lloyd Webber Broadway musical phenomenon, which shot at Warner Bros. Studios in Leavesden, Hertfordshire, in the UK, as well as in London.

Around the time she shot the movie, Roger Alvarado broke into her New York City home — the same man who had previously done so TWO OTHER TIMES — causing the star to have heightened fears for her safety.

A source told the publication, 'Taylor has been persistently targeted by stalkers. After finding herself in a number of scary situations she no longer wants to take chances.'

'She was so excited to film Cats, but it was a high-profile project and the thought of the world knowing that she was on set for months on end concerned her,' the source continued.

Belle of the ball: Swift reportedly called on the services of a well known British security guard to watch over her while on set; seen here earlier this week in NYC for the Cats world premiere

'A bodyguard put her mind at ease, allowing her to have the best experience possible and focus on her performance,' the insider concluded.

In an open letter published in March, which coincided with the Cats shoot, Taylor cited her 'fear of violence' and that she and her team are prepared for the eventuality of 'gunshot or stab wounds.'

The next day, Alvarado was detained and held after breaking and entering Swift’s Manhattan apartment.

Singing purr heart out: The Lover songstress plays Bombalurina in the film based on the Andrew Lloyd Webber Broadway musical phenomenon, which shot in England

After repeated attempts to unlawfully gain access to Taylor's pad, Alvarado was sentenced to a maximum of four years in prison in April.

Additionally, Taylor currently holds active restraining orders against two other stalkers, after receiving death threats.

Cats, meanwhile, is set to open in theaters on Friday, in the midst of abysmal word of mouth and negative reviews that is creating a curiously attention-getting anti-buzz.

Target: Swift has been 'persistently targeted by stalkers,' including one man who has repeatedly broken into her NYC home