Australia's leading biscuit brand has created a mouthwatering alternative to the classic gingerbread house, just in time for Christmas.

Biscuit lovers are rejoicing after a video of the house was posted on Arnott's Facebook account, showing bakers how to make their own version using chocolate Tim Tams, Raspberry Shortcakes, Hundreds and Thousands and melted chocolate.

The festive creation has been hailed as the ultimate Australian twist on a Christmas classic, with many calling the 'Tim Tam house' better than traditional gingerbread - and according to Arnott's, it's easier than it looks.

Australian biscuit giant Arnott's has created a mouthwatering alternative to the traditional gingerbread house, making its own version using national favourites like Tim Tams and Hundreds and Thousands

Hailed as the ultimate Australian twist on a Christmas classic, the house can be made with four packets of Tim Tams, 450 grams of melting chocolate and an assortment of other Arnott's favourites

To build the house, bakers will need plenty of Australian classics including four packets of Tim Tams and one packet of Honey Jumbles, Raspberry Shortcake and Hundreds and Thousands, as well as 450 grams of milk and white chocolate to melt.

Arrange a full packet of Hundreds and Thousands in a rectangular shape, gluing biscuits together with melted white chocolate, to make the roof.

Line three Tim Tams in a row with two underneath, sticking the bars together with layers of melted milk chocolate. Leave aside to set.

Arrange a full packet of Hundreds and Thousands in a rectangular shape, gluing biscuits together with melted white chocolate, to make the roof

Dipping the remaining Tim Tams in chocolate, stick the wet side onto a wooden chopping board to make the walls of the house, building until it's three layers high

Every ingredient for a truly Australian 'Tim Tam house' - Four packets of chocolate Tim Tams - One packet of Hundreds and Thousands - One packet of Honey Jumbles - One packet of Raspberry Shortcakes - 250 grams of melting milk chocolate - 200 grams of melting white chocolate - Large wooden chopping board Total cost: $24

Dipping the remaining Tim Tams in chocolate, stick the wet side onto a wooden chopping board to make the walls of the house, building until it's three layers high.

Once chocolate has hardened, attach the gables to the walls with freshly melted chocolate, carefully sticking the roof on with the remaining liquid white chocolate.

Add three Honey Jumbles along the length of the roof, standing two more side by side to create the front door.

Decorate the outside of the house with your choice of miniature treats, piping leftover white chocolate onto the eaves of the roof to mimic icicles for a final festive touch.

Stick the roof on with the remaining melted white chocolate, adding three Honey Jumbles along the top to decorate

Home bakers were excited to try their hand at the house, with one man joking he would be likely to eat all the Tim Tams before he started.

'Now here's a Christmas house you could make and enjoy - so much better than gingerbread!' one woman wrote.

Others suggested adding other Arnott's classics like Shortbread Creams, Caramel Crowns and different flavours of Tim Tams.