ATLANTA (AP) - Donovan Mitchell scored two of his 30 points on a tricky baseline drive that put Utah ahead for good and the Jazz beat the Atlanta Hawks 111-106 Thursday night.

Mitchell faked a pass from under the basket before slamming the breaks and connecting from beneath the backboard with 3:47 left. That made it 101-99, and he cemented the win with two free throws with 13 seconds left.

The Jazz won their fourth straight game by dominating near the rim. They outscored the Hawks 62-46 in the paint and outrebounded them 52-39. Rudy Gobert had 20 points and 13 rebounds for Utah.

Point guard Trae Young led the Hawks with 30 points, but Atlanta lost its sixth consecutive game. Jabari Parker scored 23 points.

TIP-INS

Jazz: Starting point guard Michael Conley missed his eighth straight game with a strained left hamstring. For the most part, Mitchell worked in his place.

Utah Jazz guard Donovan Mitchell (45) reacts after sinking a three-point basket during the second half of an NBA basketball game against the Atlanta Hawks, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019, in Atlanta. (AP Photo/John Amis)

Hawks: Atlanta coach Lloyd Pierce juggled his starting lineup in the wake of a five-game losing streak, inserting center Bruno Fernando and rookie Cam Reddish in place of Parker and DeAndre´ Bembry. Looking for more energy, the Hawks also got nine rebounds from Parker and 14 points from Reddish.

UP NEXT

Jazz: Play Saturday at Charlotte in the second game of a three-game trip.

Hawks: Play Saturday at Brooklyn.

___

More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports

Atlanta Hawks forward Jabari Parker (5) shoots as Utah Jazz forward Jeff Green defends during the first half of an NBA basketball game, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019, in Atlanta. (AP Photo/John Amis)

Utah Jazz forward Joe Ingles (2) looks to pass as Atlanta Hawks guard Kevin Huerter defends during the first half of an NBA basketball game, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019, in Atlanta. (AP Photo/John Amis)

Atlanta Hawks guard Kevin Huerter, right, shoots as Utah Jazz center Rudy Gobert defends during the first half of an NBA basketball game, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019, in Atlanta. (AP Photo/John Amis)

Utah Jazz forward Georges Niang, bottom, gets a hand to the face by Atlanta Hawks forward Bruno Fernando, top, during the first half of an NBA basketball game, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019, in Atlanta. (AP Photo/John Amis)