The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel star Rachel Brosnahan handed out clothing and other gifts to the homeless youth attending Covenant House New York's Holiday Party on Thursday.

The 29-year-old Emmy winner sported a blue-striped knit sweater featuring puffed shoulders and black belted pants selected by styling duo Jill Lincoln + Jordan Johnson.

Hairstylist Owen Gould coiffed Rachel's flaxen waves and make-up artist Lisa Aharon defined her brows and brought out her baby blues.

The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel star Rachel Brosnahan handed out clothing and other gifts to the homeless youth attending Covenant House New York's Holiday Party on Thursday

Brosnahan signed autographs at the Amazon-sponsored pop-up and dinner celebration at Covenant House, which has provided shelter and wraparound services since 1972.

The Wisconsin-born stunner appeared to enjoy herself at the Christmas-style charitable event by bringing cheer to the needy young New Yorkers.

Rachel's sighting came a day after she defended her stand-up comedian character Miriam 'Midge' Maisel, who leaves her children Ethan and Esther at home as she goes on tour.

'She's far from a perfect mom. Midge has a super unhealthy body image, she measures every part of her body, she's certainly passing that down to her daughter who's measuring her forehead,' Brosnahan admitted on The View.

Casual: The 29-year-old Emmy winner sported a blue-striped knit sweater featuring puffed shoulders and black belted pants selected by styling duo Jill Lincoln + Jordan Johnson

Natural look: Hairstylist Owen Gould coiffed Rachel's flaxen waves and make-up artist Lisa Aharon defined her brows and brought out her baby blues

Fan: Brosnahan signed autographs at the Amazon-sponsored pop-up and dinner celebration at Covenant House, which has provided shelter and wraparound services since 1972

Big smile: The Wisconsin-born stunner appeared to enjoy herself at the Christmas-style charitable event by bringing cheer to the needy young New Yorkers

'It's not ideal, but I've heard words thrown around like, "She's an abusive parent. She's abandoned her children. She neglects them." But this is a woman who's pursuing a brand new dream. The children's father has stepped up. He's there home with them when she's on the road. It's a TV show...

'People are using words like "abandonment" and "neglect." I mean what does that say about a woman who's trying to do both, who's trying to do it all.'

The NYU Tisch grad begins production on the fourth season of the Amazon hit show next spring, and she announced December 12 that she's 'ready to serve you more lewks!'

Rachel next competes against her Maisel castmate Alex Borstein for the outstanding actress in a comedy series trophy at the 26th Screen Actors Guild Awards, which air January 19 on TNT/TBS.

Neglectful? Rachel's sighting came a day after she defended her stand-up comedian character Miriam 'Midge' Maisel, who leaves her children Ethan and Esther at home as she goes on tour

Brosnahan admitted on The View: 'She's far from a perfect mom. Midge has a super unhealthy body image, she measures every part of her body, she's certainly passing that down to her daughter'

The NYU Tisch grad continued: 'People are using words like "abandonment" and "neglect." I mean what does that say about a woman who's trying to do both, who's trying to do it all'

But first, Brosnahan goes head to head with Phoebe Waller-Bridge, Natasha Lyonne, Kirsten Dunst, and Christina Applegate at the 77th Golden Globe Awards, which air January 5 on NBC.

The Cetaphil partner next voices scientist Walter Beckett's (Tom Holland) mother Wendy in the CG-animated comedy Spies in Disguise, which hits US theaters December 25 and UK theaters December 26.

Directing duo Troy Quane + Nick Bruno helmed the flick also starring Will Smith, Rashida Jones, Reba McEntire, Ben Mendelsohn, Karen Gillan, DJ Khaled, and Masi Oka.

On the personal front, Rachel is married to The Magicians star Jason Ralph, whom she met on the 2014 set of Jon Goracy's rom-com I'm Obsessed with You.

'Can't wait to get the merry @maiseltv band back together!' Rachel begins production on the fourth season of the Amazon hit show next spring, and she announced December 12 that she's 'ready to serve you more lewks!'

Who will win? Brosnahan next competes against her Maisel castmate Alex Borstein for the outstanding actress in a comedy series trophy at the 26th Screen Actors Guild Awards, which air January 19 on TNT/TBS