Tyler Seguin fired in the game-winning goal three minutes into overtime as the Dallas Stars rallied for a 4-3 win over the host Tampa Bay Lightning on Thursday night.

The Lightning's Tyler Johnson missed a wide-open net in the extra session, and the puck wrapped around to Seguin, who skated in on a two-on-one and zipped a shot over Andrei Vasilevskiy's left shoulder for the win.

It was the eighth goal of the season for Seguin, who also added an assist. Alexander Radulov had a goal and assisted on the game-winner, as the Stars improved to 4-2 in overtime.

Radek Faksa and Jason Dickinson also scored, and John Klingberg had two assists for Dallas, which is 5-1-1 in its last seven.

The strong play of Anton Khudobin kept the Stars in the game. The backup netminder allowed three goals on 48 shots but only one tally at even strength, and he stopped the last 27 straight shots.

Mikhail Sergachev and Alex Killorn produced power-play tallies, and Ondrej Palat had a goal for the Lightning, who were 2-1-1 on their four-game homestand.

Vasilevskiy, who produced 16 saves, worked two shutouts against Dallas last season -- the Stars' last goal against the Lightning had come in the 2017-18 campaign -- but Radulov netted his 10th at 4:09 of the first period on the power play.

The Lightning, whose penalty-kill unit had allowed just one goal in the last seven contests, were tested early in the first period. Radulov redirected Seguin's shot, and the puck trickled in through Vasilevskiy's pads on the man advantage.

In its 36th power play on the road, Dallas recorded just its fourth goal -- tied with Detroit for the least markers in the league.

But Sergachev rifled in his fifth goal off the bar at 12:58 on the power play, and Killorn tapped in a pass at the back door off a slick pass from Nikita Kucherov at 15:24 for the Lightning, who were 2-for-3 on the man advantage in the first.

Palat pushed it to 3-1 at 3:22 of the second when Sergachev's shot from the point struck him in the back and caromed past Khudobin for his 10th goal, giving the Russian defenseman the primary assist and his second point.

But Faksa fired home his eighth at 17:57 as the Stars trailed 3-2 after two.

Dallas tied it 3-3 at 15:42 when Dickinson tapped in a puck that barely got behind Vasilevskiy and nearly came to a stop in the blue paint.

--Field Level Media