The catastrophic bushfire season in Australia has so far claimed nine lives and destroyed almost 1,000 homes - and it is also harming local wildlife.

Graphic pictures show just how devastating the fires have been to our koalas, kangaroos and livestock.

More than 1,000 koalas are feared to have been wiped out in the blazes - which ravaged much of the east coast of Australia - and kangaroos have been spotted fleeing their homes as the fire front approaches.

The pictures, shared by the RSPCA to help raise awareness about the loss of animal lives in the bush, tell the tale of the animals who are suffering alongside the residents who live in fire-affected areas.

Lewis (pictured) was one koala who was rescued after losing his home in the bushfires. He was later put down because of his injuries

A sheep was burned so badly she couldn't stand up, and sat by, appearing to assess the damage surrounding her

In one picture, a lone sheep seeks shelter behind a charred tree.

The sheep's wool has been scorched, as has all of the land nearby.

In the distance, greener pastures are present - showing just how devastating the fire can be as it travels the fire path with pinpoint accuracy.

In another picture, a sheep was burned so badly she couldn't stand up, and sat by, appearing to assess the damage surrounding her.

In one picture, a lone sheep seeks shelter behind a charred tree. The sheep's wool has been scorched, as has all of the land nearby

A lone baby kangaroo was rescued by a volunteer, who spotted him in burnt out terrain. He was wrapped in a towel and carried to safety

Another photo shows a goanna covered entirely in soot.

The animal's yellow scales are barely visible underneath the thick smoke which has settled over it, while its eye has completely disappeared.

A lone baby kangaroo was rescued by a volunteer, who spotted him in burnt out terrain.

The fire had already passed through and the joey was separated from his mother during the subsequent chaos.

He was wrapped in a towel and carried to safety.

Another kangaroo was so parched it allowed another volunteer to get close enough to hand feed her water through a McDonald's cup

Another kangaroo was so parched it allowed another volunteer to get close enough to hand feed her water.

The kangaroo, which still looked quite young, was sipping water from a clear McDonald's cup when the photograph was taken.

A koala named Lewis who was saved by a woman who wrapped him in her shirt near Port Macquarie had to be put down due to his burns last month.

His heartbreaking story went viral online and sparked a campaign which has raised almost $2million from donors around the world.

Lewis the koala (pictured) was put down in November because he was in too much pain with burns to his hands, feet, arms and the inside of his legs