Sofia Vergara showed her casual chic style while out and about Thursday amid reporting that she's poised to join America's Got Talent.

The 47-year-old actress donned ripped jeans along with Saint Laurent platform heels for a pharmacy run in Beverly Hills, California.

The Modern Family star also wore a plain white T-shirt partially tucked into her cuffed jeans along with an olive green jacket.

Casual chic: Sofia Vergara showed her casual chic style while out and about Thursday in Beverly Hills, California amid reporting that she's poised to join America's Got Talent

She accessorized with hoop earrings, Van Cleef and Arpels clover necklace and stylish sunglasses with golden dotted detailing.

Sofia had her long brown hair parted down the middle and down around her shoulders and carried a tan Chanel handbag and a plastic shopping bag.

The actress reportedly met Wednesday with NBC executives and members of Fremantle production company that produces America's Got Talent, according to an article Thursday on TMZ.

NBC opted not to bring back Julianne Hough, 31, and Gabrielle Union, 47, for the next season of the Simon Cowell-produced talent competition show.

Pharmacy run: The 47-year-old actress donned ripped jeans along with Saint Laurent platform heels for a pharmacy run

Gabrielle lost her job after she complained of racial bias and a 'toxic' work culture on the show while serving as a judge last season along with Julianne, Simon, 60, and Howie Mandel, 64.

Sofia is in her final season of the ABC sitcom Modern Family.

She has been portraying Gloria Delgado-Pritchett in the comedy series since its premiere in 2009.

Stylish star: The Modern Family star accessorized with hoop earrings, Van Cleef and Arpels clover necklace and stylish sunglasses with golden dotted detailing

Her work on Modern Family has earned Sofia four nominations for Golden Globe Awards, four Primetime Emmy Awards and seven Screen Actors Guild Awards.

Modern Family is currently ABC's longest running comedy series.

Sofia has been married since 2015 to Joe Manganiello, 42.