Former Vice President Joe Biden wouldn't commit on the Democratic debate stage in Los Angeles to run for a second term if elected president next year.

'No I'm not willing to commit one way or another,' Biden said when asked the question directly by Politico's Tim Alberta. 'Here's the deal, I'm not even elected one term yet, let's see where we are, let's see what happens.'

He then added, 'It's a nice thought.'

Former Vice President Joe Biden wouldn't commit to serve a second term if he's elected president next year

The former vice president was asked questions about his age by Politico's Tim Alberta (center), a moderator of the Los Angeles debate alongside PBS News Hour's Yamiche Alcindor (left) and Aman Nawaz (right)

Politico's Tim Alberta quoted President Obama talking about 'old men' needing to get out of the way and then asked Vice President Joe Biden (second from right) and Sen. Bernie Sanders (right) about their ages

Alberta had asked Sen. Bernie Sanders, 78, and Biden, 77, to respond to recent comments by former President Barack Obama, where he suggested women would be better world leaders, adding, 'If you look at the world and you look at the problems, it's usually old people, usually old men, not getting out of the way.'

When Alberta posed the query to Biden he added, 'I'm going to guess that President Obama did not clear that remark through your campaign ahead of time.'

Biden served as Obama's vice president, though Obama has not endorsed in the Democratic race.

'And I'm going to guess he's was not talking about me either,' Biden answered, grinning.

Biden then explained that he was running because of his decades of government service. Biden was elected to the Senate at age 29 before becoming vice president in 2009.

'I'm running, I'm running because I've been around, on my experience,' Biden said. 'With experience comes judgement and hopefully a little wisdom.'

Alberta brought up that Biden would be 82 by the end of his first term - the oldest president in history.

'Winston Churchill,' Biden offered, name-dropping the late British Prime Minister.

When Alberta clarified he meant American history, Biden said it was a joke.

'Politico doesn't have much of a sense of humor,' the ex-veep said.