A man is silhouetted against the sky during a tour of the new National Stadium in Tokyo.

In other images from the Asia Pacific region this week, trapped flower vendors are pulled out from a collapsed wall following an earthquake that struck the southern Philippines.

A man prays inside the Jamia Masjid mosque in the main city of Srinagar in Indian-controlled Kashmir, which reopened for the first time since authorities locked down the disputed Himalayan region in August after stripping it of its semi-autonomous status.

___

This gallery was curated by Associated Press photo editor Toru Takahashi in Tokyo.

___

In this Sunday, Dec. 15, 2019, file photo, a man is silhouetted against the sky during a tour at the new National Stadium, in Tokyo. The stadium is officially completed. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong, File)

Visit the AP Images blog: http://apimagesblog.com

Visit AP Images online: http://www.apimages.com

In this Sunday, Dec. 15, 2019, file photo, trapped flower vendors are pulled out from a collapsed wall following an earthquake that struck Padada, Davao del Sur province, southern Philippines. A strong quake jolted the southern Philippines on Sunday, causing a three-story building to collapse and prompting people to rush out of shopping malls, houses and other buildings in panic, officials said. (AP Photo/John Angelo Jomao-as, File)

In this Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019, file photo, an elderly Kashmiri Muslim man prays inside Jamia Masjid in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir. A call to afternoon prayer has rung out from the central mosque in disputed Kashmir's largest city for the first time in more than four months, ending a virtual ban on religious practice in the Muslim-majority region's biggest mosque. The Jamia Masjid was shut Aug. 5 as part of India's security lockdown after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Hindu nationalist-led government stripped Kashmir of its semi-autonomous status. (AP Photo/Mukhtar Khan, File)

In this Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019, file photo, women celebrate after hearing their relatives were acquitted following the verdict at a court in Camp Bagong Diwa, Taguig city, Philippines. The Philippine court on Thursday found key members of a powerful political clan guilty of a 2009 massacre in a southern province that left 57 people, including 32 media workers, dead in a brazen act that horrified the world. (AP Photo/Aaron Favila, File)

In this Friday, Dec. 13, 2019, file photo, the lights of Hong Kong Island are reflected in the water as Star Ferry boats cross the harbor from Kowloon, in Hong Kong. Despite six months of ongoing pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong, day to day life continues as normal in much of the city. (AP Photo/Mark Schiefelbein, File)

In this Tuesday, Dec. 17, 2019, file photo, North Koreans bows in front of the bronze statues of their late leaders Kim Il Sung, left, and Kim Jong Il at the Mansudae Art Studio in Pyongyang, North Korea. North Koreans mark the eighth death anniversary of Kim Jong Il with usual floral offerings at the foot of the giant statues of the late leader. (AP Photo/Cha Song Ho, File)

In this Thursday, Nov. 14, 2019, file photo, Norihito Arima, a 33-year-old taxi driver working for Nihon Kotsu, one of the largest taxi companies in Japan, waits for traffic light to change as he drives along the streets of Tokyo. (AP Photo/Jae C. Hong, File)

In this Saturday, Dec. 14, 2019, file photo, Japan's Ruki Tobita jumps, backdropped by the moon, during the Men's Snowboard Big Air in the 2019 FIS Big Air World Cup held at the Big Air Shougang in Beijing. (AP Photo/Ng Han Guan, File)

In this Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019, file photo, window cleaners dressed as zodiac animals of boar, and rat clean the glass exterior of a hotel, in Tokyo. During the year end "zodiac" hand over event, the outgoing Year of the Pig or Boar handed a window wiper to successor the Year of the Rat. (AP Photo/Eugene Hoshiko, File)