She's the wellness entrepreneur who's been pushing her mantra of healthy eating and training since becoming a model.

And on Friday, Rachael Finch showed off her stunning figure on Instagram, courtesy of the hard work she has put in over the years.

The former Miss Universe Australia turned heads in a white leopard print bikini while posing on the beach at Lord Howe Island off the coast of New South Wales.

Hard work has paid off! Rachael Finch showed off her stunning figure in a leopard print bikini on Friday, during a holiday on Lord Howe Island off the coast of New South Wales

She informed her 281,000 followers she was taking a well-earned break with her husband of nearly six years, Michael Miziner, at the popular holiday destination, and will be updating them with 'everything they do.'

Rachael wasted little time and immediately jumped into her Body By Finch training program on the beach, while Michael filmed her at the picturesque spot.

The mother-of-two started with squats before moving to push ups, alternating leg raises, walking lunges and finished off the gruelling workout with a high to low boat exercise.

She's dedicated! Rachael wasted little time and immediately jumped into her Body By Finch fitness program on the beach, while husband of nearly six years, Michael Miziner, filmed her at the picturesque spot

It comes after the 31-year-old took to Instagram to say she will be enjoying a healthy 'green goddess smoothie' on Christmas Day.

'Christmas, new year, birthday, whenever... I eat and drink the way I do every. single. day because of how it makes me feel when I get out of bed and then what I get to accomplish throughout the day,' Rachael's post began.

'I don't know about you but I want to unlock my greatest potential and live to my fullest.'

No holiday feasting for this model: On Thursday the 31-year-old model took to Instagram to say she will be enjoying a healthy 'green goddess smoothie' on Christmas Day

'I want to unlock my greatest potential and live to my fullest': The wellness entrepreneur has slowly creating her health empire, including her Body By Finch program and her activewear label B.O.D

She finished: 'What type of life do you want to look back on and remember?'

Rachael revealed that her favourite green smoothie is made out of spinach, frozen banana, parsley, vanilla protein, nut butter and filtered water. On her Instagram story, she added cucumber to the recipe.

The brunette beauty has even passed on her healthy eating habits to daughter Violet, six, recently giving her her homemade coconut milk ice creams in the cinema as they watched Frozen 2.