Transgender athlete Hannah Mouncey, 30, was previously rejected from women's AFL because of her testosterone levels

Transgender athlete Hannah Mouncey claims the Australian women's handball team has left her out of the world championships team because her teammates are refusing to share a change room with her.

The 30-year-old was thrust into the spotlight in 2018 after she was blocked from playing in the Women's AFL because she had too much testosterone to qualify for the female league.

Mouncey, who previously represented the nation in men's handball, has since helped the Australian women's handball team qualify for the world championship.

The international competition will be held in Japan this month, but Mouncey wasn't selected to compete.

In an explosive post in the Star Observer this month, Mouncey said she refused a management request to use a separate changeroom because female teammates felt uncomfortable with her presence.

Mouncey played women's AFL until 2018. She is pictured passing the ball during a match in Melbourne on July, 2, 2018

Mouncey (right) poses with Abbey Cholmes (centre) and Grant Hansen (left) on the set of The Marngrook Footy Show last year

'I was left out of the team for the World Championships because there was a group of players within the team, supported by the team manager, who did not want me showering or using the change rooms before or after the game,' she wrote.

'This was in turn the sole reason given to me by our coach for my non selection.'

Mouncey went on to claim a Handball Australia employee told her she wasn't picked for the squad because 'you're not liked'.

'And the reason I'm not liked is because I told our manager, and by extension those players, exactly where he and they could go in trying to tell me where I could change and shower.'

Mouncey (left) claimed a Handball Australia employee told her she wasn't picked for the squad because 'you're not liked'

While Mouncey admitted she would be on the world championship team if she accepted the changeroom request, she said she would have let down other members of the trans community if she gave into that demand.

A spokeswoman for Handball Australia told Daily Mail Australia the coach did not mention the showers when Mouncey was told she hadn't been selected for the team.

'The coach assures me she conveyed the reasons for not being selected in line with the committee discussion. Like any player Hannah had the right to appeal but did not. We are currently investigating the showering claims with Hannah,' she said.