An Australian mother's time-saving breakfast has been dubbed the 'ultimate Christmas morning meal' after a photo of it was shared on Facebook.

Taking to Slow Cooker Recipe & Tips, the woman shared a photo of her slow-cooked fry-up, complete with cups of baked beans, cherry tomatoes and mushrooms in garlic butter.

Around the edges of the cooker she lined streaky bacon and mini pork sausages.

A mum shared this photo of her slow-cooked fry-up, complete with cups of baked beans, cherry tomatoes and mushrooms in garlic butter

'I cooked it on low for eight hours, woke up, chucked bread into the toaster, [put a] couple of eggs in the fry pan and then served it all up,' she wrote

'I cooked it on low for eight hours, woke up, chucked bread into the toaster, [put a] couple of eggs in the fry pan and then served it all up,' she wrote.

The method, which became popular earlier this year when it was shared in a similar group, was flooded with praise and described by many as a great hassle-free option for Christmas morning.

It's not the only viral slow cooker Christmas meal either, with a home baker recently sharing her recipe for Christmas cake using mixed fruit, chocolate milk, Baileys and self-raising flour.

The simple method, which became popular earlier this year when it was shared in a similar group, was described by many as a great hassle-free option for Christmas morning

To start, the woman soaked one kilogram of mixed fruit and a packet of glace cherries with three-quarters of a cup of Baileys for 24 hours.

Next, she added two-cups of self-raising flour to the mixture before pouring it into a slow cooker lined with two layers of baking paper.

To make sure the cake was easy to remove, she also included a double strip of paper around the inside edge.

'Pour batter in and even out, cook on low for seven to eight hours and place a tea towel under lid,' she wrote.

It's not the only viral slow cooker Christmas meal either, with a home baker recently sharing her recipe for Christmas cake using mixed fruit, chocolate milk, Baileys and self-raising flour

How can you make the four ingredient Christmas cake? Ingredients: 1 kilogram of mixed fruit and a packet of glacé cherries 2 cups Chocolate Milk 1/2-3/4 Cup Baileys 2 Cups self-raising flour Method: To start, soak fruit in milk and Baileys for 24 hours. Then fold in two-cups of self-raising flour before pouring the mixture into a slow cooker lined with two layers of baking paper To make removing the cake easier, line the inside of the slow cook with a double layer of baking paper. Make sure to even out the batter with a spatula. Cook on low for 7-8 hours ensuring you have placed a tea towel under the lid first.

Another home cook made a gluten-free version of the cake and substituted milk for orange juice and Bailey's for brandy.

'Easiest fruit cake ever and tastes as good as my Mum's traditional one. Only ever cooked in the oven. They used to walk out the door of my cafe at Christmas time,' they wrote.

Another cooked their cake in the oven and switched the chocolate milk for iced coffee flavoured milk.

Another cooked their cake in the oven and switched the chocolate milk for iced coffee flavoured milk (pictured)

Slow Cooker Central revealed the use of a tea towel is helpful when cooking certain foods.

'This [the tea towel] is to absorb condensation and stop it from dripping down into the dish inside.

It's often used when making cakes and bread etc that you don't want to end up soggy.'