She received her second Golden Globe nomination earlier this month for her performance in the movie Bombshell.

And Margot Robbie no doubt is hoping she will get a second Academy Awards nomination when the Oscar nominees are announced next month.

The Australian actress, 29, is making the rounds of TV talk shows and public appearances to promote the film ahead of its release in theaters on Friday and on Thursday, she was seen heading to an interview with ABC's Jimmy Kimmel.

TV appearance: Margot Robbie was seen arriving to Jimmy Kimmel Live! in Hollywood on Thursday as she continues to promote her movie Bombshell ahead of its release on Friday

She arrived for the taping wearing a navy smock dress with long sleeves and a frilly drawstring neckline.

She paired the knee-length frock with black tights and shiny black stiletto heels.

She wore her long blonde hair in a messy bun with tendrils flying loose around her face.

Boho chic: The Australian actress, 29, arrived at the ABC studios for the late night TV show wearing a navy smock dress with long sleeves and a frilly drawstring neckline

Natural beauty: Robbie paired the knee-length frock with black tights and shiny black stiletto heels. She wore her long blonde hair in a messy bun with tendrils flying loose around her face

Feted: She received her second Golden Globe nomination earlier this month for her performance in Bombshell, about the women who took on the head of Fox News Roger Ailes

Bombshell tells the story of the women who took on the head of Fox News Roger Ailes over the toxic environment at the Rupert Murdoch-owned cable news channel.

Charlize Theron stars as Fox anchor Megyn Kelly and Nicole Kidman as Fox anchor Gretchen Carlson.

However, Robbie's character Kayla Pospisil is a fictional character who represents the women who didn't feel they could tell their stories.

The movie is directed by Jay Roach and also stars John Lithgow as Ailes, Connie Britton as Ailes' wife Beth and Malcolm McDowell as Murdoch.