Her latest movie Cats isn't getting the glowing reviews it was aimed to get.

But Rebel Wilson - who plays Jennyanydots in the new musical - appears to be brushing it off after being spotted out enjoying some cool weather in Downtown Aspen, Colorado.

The star and her friends were spotted enjoying their time at the St. Regis World Snow Polo Championship event as they mingled in the VIP section.

Having fun: Rebel Wilson was spotted on Thursday enjoying her time at the St. Regis World Snow Polo Championship in Aspen, Colorado

Chic: For her day out in the 26 degree weather, the actress bundled up in a silver puffer jacket and a chic turtle neck sweater

For her day out in the 26 degree weather, the actress bundled up in a silver puffer jacket and a chic turtle neck sweater.

The sweater had a navy and white design along the chest and buttons along the collar.

She had her vibrant blonde hair curled and threw on a pair of elegant shades.

Details: The sweater had a navy and white design along the chest and buttons along the collar. She is pictured above walking with fellow actor Mark Hapka

Hairstyle: She had her vibrant blonde hair curled and threw on a pair of elegant shades.

Looking good: Mark stayed warm in a maroon beanie and light black jacket while walking with his friend

After the event, she was spotted walking around with her friend Mark Hapka, 37.

The two appeared to have fun with other friends as they enjoyed life in the VIP tent and watching the polo tournament.

This friendly outing comes fresh off the release of her new movie, which currently holds an 18% on Rotten Tomatoes.

Posing: Rebel also took to Instagram to share her fun-filled day and posed with her VIP Polo badge

Good ride: The actress even hopped on a horse and posed with her friends

Trying it out: She hopped up on a horse and posed after the championship

But while many turned up their nose to the film that also stars Taylor Swift, Jennifer Hudson, Idris Elba, director Tom Hopper recently revealed he didn't even finish the movie until hours before the premiere.

'I finished it at 8 a.m. yesterday after 36 hours in a row. I just put the finishing touches on. So, I'm very happy to be here with it fully finished,' he revealed during an interview with Variety.

'The premiere should be the first time people get to see it, and this is genuinely a premiere.'