Christmas has become synonymous with Mariah Carey, but it hasn't come without a struggle.

The songstress, 49, celebrated the astonishing feat this week of achieving her 19th number one hit on the Billboard charts — and it wasn't for a new song.

In the new issue of Billboard Magazine, the Dreamlover hitmaker talks about how her now-classic holiday standard, All I Want For Christmas Is You, came out of her determination to see the joy in the holiday season, in spite of what she calls her 'tragically dysfunctional family.'

All she wants: In the new issue of Billboard Magazine, Mariah Carey talks about how her now-classic holiday standard, All I Want For Christmas Is You, came out of her determination to see the joy in the holiday season

'I grew up looking forward to the holidays all year long, but because I have such a tragically dysfunctional family, certain family members or ex-family members would ruin it every year,' Mariah said.

'As an adult, what I've tried to do is take what I always wished Christmas would be and have the perfect holiday season.'

And perfect it is: this season, the 25th anniversary of her holiday song's debut, Carey has been dominating attention, with the song vaulting to first place along with a sold out concert and festive Late Show appearance.

'For me, it's not just making a Christmas album for the sake of jumping on a bandwagon,' the diva explained. 'It's literally exorcising the demons that I had to battle as a child and coming out still feeling festive.'

Move over, Grinch: 'As an adult, what I've tried to do is take what I always wished Christmas would be and have the perfect holiday season,' Mariah said

Carey, who now has a family of her own (eight-year-old twins with her ex Nick Cannon), elaborated on those 'demons' from her past, recalling how her family's tight budget forced her mother to 'wrap up fruit in newspaper' for Christmas gifts.

'[My mom] is the reason why I love Christmas so much. She got me into it,' she reminisced. 'My dad wasn't into it — my parents were divorced. But she was super festive and tried really hard even though we had no money.'

But her family's financial woes were only part of the problem.

'[My mom] is the reason why I love Christmas so much. She got me into it,' she reminisced

'The fact is, her Irish family disowned us,' Mariah continued. 'I'm not going to get into it — it was a different time — but to her mom, that she married a black man was the biggest affront that could ever happen.'

'But at the holidays, everything got erased,' she added. 'I just focused on the holidays. You can drown in negativity, or you can push past it.'

On a different tack, Carey also took the opportunity during this moment in the spotlight to dispel rumors once and for all of a purported feud with another celebrated musical diva — the dearly departed Whitney Houston.

Queen of Christmas: The songstress, 49, celebrated the astonishing feat this week of achieving her 19th number one hit on the Billboard chart...

...and it was for All I Want For Christmas Is You, originally released 25 years ago this week

While reminiscing about her her 1991 Academy Awards performance of The Prince Of Egypt's theme song When You Believe with Houston, she said 'Working with Whitney was an experience I'll never forget.'

'It was a bonding experience. Before that when we did the video, we really put all the rumors and nonsense behind us that there was a feud.'

'There was nothing — we didn't know each other,' Mariah said of the rumors, calling to mind the famous 'I don't know her' GIF/meme.

'Once we knew each other, we had the best time together and I was honored to work with her,' she concluded. 'I'm really proud that we had this moment together.'

No feud: Carey also took the opportunity to dispel rumors once and for all of a purported feud with another celebrated musical diva — the dearly departed Whitney Houston; seen in 2009