Just last week he bizarrely claimed he'd be the new host of Love Island Australia.

And on Thursday, Grant Crapp was back to promoting products on Instagram, taking to the social media platform to share with fans a new blackhead removal device he was using.

Going shirtless, the Love Island Australia winner posted a selfie of himself cleaning his skin in the bathroom.

That's pretty Crapp! Love Island's Grant promoted a blackhead remover on Instagram on Thursday... after Sophie Monk hit back at him for bizarrely claiming he'd be the new host of the dating show

'Lads if you want perfect skin! This blackhead cleaner keeps my skin looking mint,' he wrote in part of his post.

Grant also posed up with a pimple popper set.

Interestingly, he appeared to turn off the comments from his post.

Three days ago, Grant shared another snap of himself plugging an at-home microdermabrasion kit.

Interesting! Grant also posed up with a pimple popper set and interestingly, appeared to turn off the comments from his post

Don't think so! It comes after Love Island Australia host Sophie Monk (pictured) responded last week to Grant's outrageous claim that he was set to take her job as host of the show

It comes after Love Island Australia host Sophie Monk responded last week to Grant's outrageous claim that he was set to take her job as host of the show.

The 24-year-old electrician, who won the first season of Love Island in 2018, made the bizarre prediction on Instagram earlier this month.

'News is out! @loveislandau S3 Host. Time to bring back good Tele with yours truely [sic],' he captioned a watermarked Getty Images photo of himself.

'News is out': The 24-year-old electrician, who won the first season of Love Island in 2018, made the bizarre prediction on Instagram earlier this month

But there doesn't seem to be any truth to his claim, and Sophie made it clear she doesn't take Grant seriously as a contender.

In fact, she quite literally laughed off his remarks by commenting below his post with the laughing-while-crying emoji.

However, the 39-year-old bombshell has since deleted the comment.

Say what? In fact, she quite literally laughed off his remarks by commenting below his post with the laughing-while-crying emoji. However, the 39-year-old bombshell has since deleted the comment

Despite Grant's bold claim, a Nine spokesperson told Daily Mail Australia last month that the future of Love Island was still undecided.

'We will make an announcement about the next season of Love Island when we make a final decision,' a rep said on November 12.

The fact that Sophie appeared at Nine's 2020 Upfronts via a live cross from the Love Island villa also throws doubt on claims she is being replaced.

Grant would certainly be a controversial choice to replace Sophie, as he infamously won Love Island's first season under false pretenses.

Despite taking the crown with fellow contestant Tayla Damir, it later emerged that Grant actually had a girlfriend in Canberra the whole time.