Ten former colleagues of an Ohio doctor accused of murdering 25 of his patients with excessive doses of pain medication are defending him with a lawsuit that claims that hospital wrongfully terminated and defamed them.

The lawsuit - which was filed on Thursday by one pharmacist and nine nurses once employed by Mount Carmel Health System - accused hospital executives of neglecting proper standards of care and being ignorant about the pain medication that helped patients in the intensive care unit.

The lawsuit comes as 25 Mount Carmel nurses risk losing their licenses for their alleged complicity in administering the doses, with hearings before the Ohio Board of Nursing beginning in February.

Pictured: 28 of the 29 hospital patients that Mount Carmel Health System claims that William Husel, a critical care doctor, killed by giving excessive doses of pain medication over a four year period

A total of 48 nurses and pharmacists have been reported to state licensing boards by the hospital system during the probe into 35 patient deaths, NBC News reports.

The allegations began when Mount Carmel Health System claimed that William Husel, a critical care doctor, ordered potentially fatal drug doses for 29 patients over a four year period.

William Husel (pictured) was charged with 25 counts of murder by a grand jury

The hospital said this included at least five patients, who were oftentimes seriously ill, that had a chance to improve their conditions.

Husel denies the allegations.

Husel worked at the Columbus based hospital for five years before concerns were raised about his conduct in October 2018, before he was removed from patient care and terminated on December 5 of that year.

Mount Carmel notified authorities and initially suspended 20 employees, including pharmacists and nurses who administered the drugs.

The main drug of choice was reportedly fentanyl, an opioid that has been named in the ongoing opioid crisis affecting the United States.

The new lawsuit rejects the idea that Husel coerced them or broke their trust, and say that hospital executives 'panicked' about how public and government regulators would perceive the high doses.

Pictured: Husel standing inside an Ohio courtroom where he pleaded not guilty to 25 counts of murder

The lawsuit says: 'This preposterous (but headline-grabbing) false narrative of an evil rogue doctor and his complicit staff ultimately destroyed the lives and livelihoods of dozens of dedicated nurses and pharmacists, and convinced the public, the Franklin County prosecutor, and the State Attorney General that something terrible had been going on. But nothing could be further from the truth.'

The lawsuit says that Husel, who was certified in anesthesiology, was working within the hospital's 'flexible and discretion-permitting policies' that allowed staff to administer high doses of fentanyl to patients being removed from life support.

They maintain that no one was trying quicken any patient's deaths with pain medication or euthanize them.

The lawsuit says that Husel (pictured) worked within the hospital's 'flexible and discretion-permitting policies' that allowed staff to administer high doses of fentanyl to patients being removed from life support

Robert S. Landy, whose firm Ford O'Brien LLP is representing the former employees, said: 'The compassionate very-end-of-life care that the 35 patients received had a single goal: to allow them to die with dignity and without pain in accordance with their families' wishes.'

The lawsuit names Mount Carmel, their parent company Michigan-based Trinity Health Corp and former Mount Carmel CEO Ed Lamb as defendants.

In a statement to NBC News, the Mount Caramel Health System said the 'claim has no merit' and that it 'thoroughly investigated these events and stand by our decisions. Mount Carmel's focus continues to be on caring for our community.'

Ford O'Brien LLP is also defending Husel in a separate lawsuit with Trinity Health's insurance carrier over whether they must cover his legal costs in his criminal case.

The main entrance to Mount Carmel West Hospital in Columbus, Ohio is seen in a file photo. Husel had worked for the hospital system since 2013.

PATIENTS DIE IN DR. HUSEL'S CARE DURING 4 YEARS AT MOUNT CARMEL WEST September 2013 - Dr. Husel gets credentials to work at Mount Carmel September 2014 - Patient suspected of receiving excessive dose of fentanyl dies at Mount Carmel West March 2015 - Patient Jan Thomas dies three days after arriving at Mount Carmel West. She received a lethal fentanyl dose after being removed from ventilator May - Auxiliary nun Joanne Bellisari dies after 1,000 microgram fentanyl IV May 7 - Virginia Brokamp dies October 9, 2017 - Timothy Fitzpatrick, Peggy Francies and Beverlee Schirtzinger die December 10 - Larry Brigner dies after 500 micrograms of fentanyl December 11 - Now six patients have died since October 9 January 14, 2018 - Brandy McDonald dies April 1, 2018 – Jeremia 'Sue' Hodge dies after excess of 500 micrograms of fentanyl May 18 - Jim Allen dies after 1,000 micrograms of fentanyl July 15 – Troy Allison dies after 1,000 micrograms of fentanyl September 30 – Bonnie Austin dies after 600 micrograms of fentanyl October 24 - Nick Timmons dies after 1,000 micrograms of fentanyl October 25 – Mount Carmel West receives a 'formal report' about Dr. Husel November 20 - Melissa Penix dies November 21 – Dr. Husel is removed from patient care after three die in less than a month November 26 - Dr Husel is credentialed again and reappointed December 5 - The doctor is fired

In June 2019, Husel turned himself into Columbus law enforcement and was later indicted on 25 counts of murder by a grand jury.

The Franklin County Prosecutors are only charging 44-year-old Husel in the case and he has pleaded not guilty.

He was released from custody on a $1million bond.

Among the cases investigated against Husel, an 80 year old woman who suffered a cardiac arrest four days before Husel administered 1,000 micrograms of fentynal in the ICU.

She died 23 minutes later.

A 37-year-old died 14 minutes after receiving 1,000 micrograms of fentanyl as she suffered from liver ailments from a battle against ovarian cancer.

In one case, an 82-year-old woman with stomach pain, pneumonia and given an ventilator was administered 2,000 micrograms of fentanyl before she passed away in five minutes.

Prosecutors say that those amounts are larger than usual doses and this points to intent from Husel.

Dr. Lewis Nelson, a professor and chair of the Department of Emergency Medicine at Rutgers New Jersey Medical School in Newark, told NBC News that he might give the sickest person in the ICU between 100 and 200 micrograms of fentanyl over an hour.

He said: 'It would be very atypical to give 2,000. Maybe in an operating room, and even there that is high.'

Nelson explained that most hospitals don't have a specified cap for fentanyl doses because each patient has different needs, but medical staff is aware of 'informal parameters' when administering powerful drugs.

Around 35 families have filed wrongful-dearth lawsuits against Husel, Mount Carmel and staff following the explosive revelation.

Several of the families settled with a $13.5million payout, while more than 20 complaints are still pending.

It's reported that almost all the patients were on ventilators and the patient's families had 'requested that all life-saving measures be stopped,' Mount Carmel Health System said.

In some lawsuits, families say that they never were consulted about administering painkillers.

David Shroyer, an attorney representing some of these families, said his medical experts 'have all said these are extreme, high doses and never should have been given under these circumstances.'

'We're alleging that the nurses and pharmacists should have been questioning the amounts,' he continued.

The lawsuit filed by the ex-employees say that the dosages were 'fully consistent with the recommendations of the published medical literature on the topic, none of which warned of a risk inherent in the use of too much medication, but which did warn of the risks in using too little.'

Colleagues who worked with Husel say that they back up the doctor's prior decisions.

'No one broke policy. Everything was done for the patient, for their comfort, to prevent agony at the end of life,' said Brandi Wells, a Mount Carmel nurse was involved in the investigation and fired in July.

Beth Macioce-Quinn, who got her start in nursing at Mount Carmel in 1995, led a petition supporting Husel that was signed by 36 employees.

She said in a letter: 'I have unfortunately witnessed some undignified deaths in our unit, with patients gasping for air as their family members look on in horror.'

'I truly believe that it is, and always has been, Dr. Husel's good intent to honor the dignity and wishes of our patients and their family members in regards to palliative care and palliative withdrawal of care.'

Macioce-Quinn told NBC News that 'it's ludicrous to think you're going to convince 38 health care workers to collude to end anyone's life prematurely.'

McNeil: [Husel] was a man who was invested in good care. He was willing to talk with patients. And he didn't just bark an order to nurses or expect them to kowtow and do it'

Other nurses claim that Husel, who was named Physician of the Year, would reconsider and change doses they were comfortable with if they questioned him.

'He was a man who was invested in good care. He was willing to talk with patients. And he didn't just bark an order to nurses or expect them to kowtow and do it,' said Becky McNeil, a former clinical educator at Mount Carmel.

At least one nurse expressed concerns over Husel's doses and said some staff members had made an informal complaint.

The nurse, who spoke with anonymity, said she would not be comfortable administering that much fentanyl.

She told the Columbus Dispatch: 'I know I'd kill them