Just two days after visiting a tattoo parlour in Queensland, Love Island's Adam Farrugia returned for what he described as 'some more punishment'.

The 27-year-old former reality star returned to Phresh Ink Tattoo on the Gold Coast after beginning a detailed design on his right leg.

'Back for some more punishment!' he declared from behind the camera as he entered the parlour.

Scroll down for video

Second helping: Just two days after visiting a tattoo parlour in Queensland, Love Island's Adam Farrugia returned for what he described as 'some more punishment'. Pictured with tattoo artist Josh Kuhne (right)

After getting his right thigh tattooed earlier in the week, Adam continued the design on the lower half of his leg, with footage showing him lying in a chair while throwing up a shaka hand gesture.

'He's back in the hot seat,' a male's voice can be heard saying from behind the camera, prompting the heavily tattooed star to smile.

Adam also shared footage of the artist, Josh Kuhne, painstakingly etching the design onto his leg, the buzzing of tattoo needles heard throughout the videos.

Ouch: A close-up video of his face shows Adam recoiling in mock horror as he endured yet another tattoo sitting

Another close-up video of his face shows Adam recoiling in mock horror as he endured yet another tattoo sitting.

While it's not known exactly what his new design is, it appears to be an anime-inspired character with a date written in the middle of it.

Adam took to Instagram Stories again on Tuesday, sharing more videos of himself getting inked.

Back for more: After getting his right thigh tattooed earlier in the week, Adam continued the design on the lower half of his leg, with footage showing him lying in a chair

Think before you ink: Adam also shared footage of Josh painstakingly etching the design onto his leg, the buzzing of tattoo needles heard throughout the videos

'I've got hundreds of messages about people asking me where I get my tattoos, who does 'em, this, that and the other,' Adam said at the time.

'So today, I'm actually getting tattooed,' he continued, speaking to the camera as he drove to the tattoo parlour.

He added: 'I thought what better way to bring the camera and video the whole thing from start to finish, and show you who does it and what goes into it.'