Calvin Klein has rolled out another episode of its new-- In Bed With-- YouTube series where ambassadors answer intimate questions while lounging in bed.

This go-around Kendall Jenner got up-close and personal, dressed in a grey Calvin Klein sports bra and sweatpants that featured neon orange trim, as well as a red and black plaid crop-top pajamas.

'Hey guys it's Kendall Jenner. Come get in the bed with me,' the supermodel began in the nearly eight-minute advertisement.

Scroll down to video

Ambassador: Kendall Jenner, 24, shared some intimate details about herself in the new In Bed With Calvin Klein advertisement

After hopping into a bed, the Keeping Up With The Kardashians star first disclosed her 'favorite thing to do in bed.'

'Probably just chill out, watch Disney+ or Apple TV or Netflix or something. And literally just eat food and do nothing,' Jenner said

The world's highest paid model also revealed her favorite movies, which included the likes of Step Brothers, Bridesmaids and Marley & Me.

'Hey guys it's Kendall Jenner. Come get in the bed with me,' the supermodel began in the nearly eight-minute advertisement

Bed lounging outfit: For the first part of the advert, Jenner wore a Klein sports bra and sweatpants that featured neon orange trim

As for her favorite snack to eat in bed, Jenner got a bit bashful when she said she prefers cookies and ice cream, which was followed up by a more savory dish.

'There’s a really good chili spot near my house so I usually order a good hot bowl of chili, especially when it’s cold out.'

Admitting she's somewhat of an old soul, or 'grandma' as she put it, Jenner said she likes to go to bed pretty early on an average day when she doesn't any plans at night.

'I'm probably going to bed around 10 p.m. And I get up kind of early. I like to get my day started... I love a good Sunday when you have nothing to do and no alarms set.'

Opening up: 'Probably just chill out, watch Disney+ or Apple TV or Netflix or something. And literally just eat food and do nothing,' Jenner said of her favorite thing to do in bed

Tasty thoughts: Her favorite snacks in bed included, cookie, ice cream and hot chili

The Los Angeles native said she has had a lot of highlights of 2019, like watching her nieces and nephews grow up and gracing the cover of Vogue Italia.

'I have a lot to be be thankful for,' Jenner added.

The interview got even more personal with questions like 'What is your biggest turn on?'

'My biggest turn on is probably someone who is confident and I really like a witty person. Someone who can make me laugh. The sillier you are, the more yourself you are, the more unfiltered you are, I think the better.'

Her biggest turn off? 'Someone who is too filtered. Someone who is trying to be something their not or who is trying to prove something.'

About midway through the advert, friend Travis Bennett, aka Taco of the hip-hop group Odd Future, joined in on the intimate setting with box of pizza in tow

BFF: They talked about how they are the tall and skinny versions of each other

About midway through the advert, friend Travis Bennett, aka Taco of the hip-hop group Odd Future, joined in on the intimate setting with box of pizza in tow.

They both weighed-in on how they met through Instagram Direct Messages about seven years ago.

'He was a fan of me,' Jenner said while giggling alongside Bennett in bed.

'I called him on his birthday as a favor to a friend kind of thing. A few weeks later, me and Kylie [Jenner] were in Hollywood. He was like we’re at Chick-Fil-A. Come hang out. Since then, we've all been best friends.'

The pair also shared that they are the tall and skinny versions of each other.

'We have an ongoing joke that he is the male version of me, physically, and I am the female version of him, physically.'

Holiday party wear: The reality star also changed into red and black plaid pajamas that showed off her fit and trim midriff by the end of the advert

What's the attraction! Jenner revealed that her biggest turn on is 'probably someone who is confident and I really like a witty person. Someone who can make me laugh. The sillier you are, the more yourself you are, the more unfiltered you are, I think the better.'

At the end of the video, Jenner goes through her closet to pick and choose which Calvin Klein ensemble she was going to wear to the brand's holiday party.

Keeping things fashionably casual, she picked those red and black plaid pajamas that showed off her fit and trim midriff.

After revealing that Marilyn Monroe would be the one person she wished she could gossip with in bed, Jenner jumped stood up on the floor.

'All right guys, I really got to go. I'm late already. But thank you so much for watching, and I will see you soon,' she ended.