Supermarket giant Woolworths has launched an exclusive selection of Christmas treats just in time for the big day, including a pull-apart brie wreath, a gold hand crafted croquembouche and pork crackling.

With only five days left until Australians sit down to their annual Christmas lunch the grocer is selling 10 must-have festive products that customers won't want to miss out on.

For the main course there are a selection of stuffed meats, like the $24 Chicken Parcel Roast with Cranberry and Almond Stuffing and a Cranberry Orange Glaze and $22 Lamb Leg Roast with Fig and Rosemary Stuffing, as well as a $25 turkey roast and $22 chicken crown.

Supermarket giant Woolworths has launched an exclusive selection of Christmas treats just in time for the big day (pictured)

For those wanting to serve a succulent pork belly on the day there is an $18 option which is 'ready to be roasted' alongside $5.50 crackling.

It can be paired nicely with the $6 Duck Fat Potatoes with Fresh Sage and Truffle Salt, which when prepared correctly, give a crispy and fluffy finish.

Vegetarians can indulge in the meat-free option with a $7 Hasselback Butternut Pumpkin with Cinnamon Honey Glaze and Cranberry and Pistachio Garnish.

For the main course there are a selection of stuffed meats, like the $24 Chicken Parcel Roast with Cranberry and Almond Stuffing and a Cranberry Orange Glaze (pictured)

The main fanfare surrounds the dessert options with a $30 Christmas Croquembouche being sold by the retailer this year

The main fanfare surrounds the dessert options with a $30 Christmas Croquembouche and $15 pull-apart brie wreath made to be shared with your family and friends.

'We're excited to unveil these 10 exclusive, show-stopping items just in time for all of our customers Christmas grocery shopping and celebrations,' said Woolworths Supermarkets Managing Director Claire Peters.

'We've not done anything like this at the last minute before - this is fresh and crowd pleasing at its best.

There is a $15 pull-apart brie wreath made to be shared with your family and friends

'Each product has been created to offer customers something extra special this Christmas, with easy entertaining in mind, as well as a range of trimmings for the all-important traditional Christmas spread.

'We're encouraging customers to be quick as we know these Christmas-infused products will be flying off the shelves across the busiest days of shopping in our stores for the year.'

To help you find the desserts and dishes Woolworths is placing red tinsel around these special items, which will disappear in the new year.