Nick Cannon has released his third diss track in two weeks aimed at Eminem, entitled Canceled: Invitation, where he claimed Eminem was the 'KKK of his generation.'

The new song and music video, which debuted on TMZ Thursday morning, begins with Cannon sitting in a studio, listening to all of Eminem's (real name Marshall Mathers) shots taken at Cannon throughout the past decade.

The two-minute compilation concludes with Fat Joe's track Lord Above released earlier this month, where Eminem called Nick, 'neutered,' before Cannon pulls out a previously unreleased Eminem track, claiming he's been, 'disrespecting our queens for years.'

Diss track: Nick Cannon has released his third diss track in two weeks aimed at Eminem, entitled Canceled: Invitation, where he claimed Eminem was the 'KKK of his generation'

He continues, with, 'Matter of fact, why don't you tell them how you really feel, Marshall?' before an old Eminem track plays with lyrics, 'Black girls are b****es, black girls are dumb.'

He goes on to call him the 'KKK of his generation,' before asking if he 'took it too far' because 'he's a rap star.'

'I don't give a f**k if his a** was young/can't let that slide that's on my son,' Cannon continues, admitting that he's 'on one' because this, 'ain't no age for white rage.'

Third diss: He continues, with, 'Matter of fact, why don't you tell them how you really feel, Marshall?' before an old Eminem track plays with lyrics, 'Black girls are b****es, black girls are dumb'

He adds that he's seen Eminem at the VMA's and the people he was with he, 'treated like indentured slaves.'

Cannon goes on to call Eminem a racist who loves but hates black people and then claims he's going to 'slay' him for his, 'sisters, cousins, brothers and mothers.'

He adds that Eminem was a 'guest in this house but you canceled Slim,' while the chorus features Eminem's old lyrics as Cannon repeats, 'You may win some but you just lost one.'

Slaves: He adds that he's seen Eminem at the VMA's and the people he was with he, 'treated like indentured slaves'

The track ends with Cannon speaking to the black community, stating, 'You heard him, that's how he feel about us. We just gonna keep letting that ride?'

He also called out the 'house negroes that keep defending this motherf***er,' telling them to 'holla at me, I've got some books you should read,' while holding up a copy of The Isis Papers.

The song concludes with Cannon speaking directly to Eminem, stating, 'Oh, and Marshall, I tried to give you an invitation... that invitation's cancelled,' before playing extended snippets of Foolish pride.

The lyrics include, 'I'll get straight to the point, black girls are b****es/That's why I'ma tell you you better pull up your britches,' and 'Because black girls are dumb and white girls are good chicks.'

Cannon also took to Twitter with two tweets about the song, without directly referencing it, after promoting the season finale of The Masked Singer.

'Welp! The Invitation has expired...' he said in one tweet, adding, 'Trilogies are my favorite' in another.

Nick's track: The track ends with Cannon speaking to the black community, stating, 'You heard him, that's how he feel about us. We just gonna keep letting that ride?'

Expired: Cannon also took to Twitter with two tweets about the song, without directly referencing it, after promoting the season finale of The Masked Singer

Favorite: 'Welp! The Invitation has expired...' he said in one tweet, adding, 'Trilogies are my favorite' in another

Foolish Pride, which was reportedly recorded in 1998, and another song with racist lyrics released in 1993, were uncovered back in 2003 by The Source, with owners Ray Benzino and Dave Mays holding a press conference to play the recordings.

Enimem released a statement shortly thereafter, apologizing for the lyrics, stating he made that record after breaking up with an African-American girlfriend.

'The tape ... was something I made out of anger, stupidity and frustration when I was a teenager. I'd just broken up with my girlfriend, who was African American, and I reacted like the angry, stupid kid I was. I hope people will take it for the foolishness that it was, not for what somebody is trying to make it into today,' Eminem said in his apology back in 2003.