She's been tirelessly promoting her comeback single Lola for the past month, following the abysmal sales of her last album In My Defense.

But it appears rapper Iggy Azalea is now taking a much-needed break before Christmas, lapping up the sun in Bali, Indonesia.

On Friday, the 29-year-old almost broke the internet as she shared a sizzling photo of herself posing in a skimpy bikini.

White hot! Iggy Azalea flaunted her enviable physique and bronze skin on Friday in a revealing white bikini as she lapped up the sun while holidaying in Bali

The former chart-topper's two-piece could barely contain her assets as she lounged on a day bed, with her flat stomach and bronzed skin on full display.

In the photo, Iggy, sported a turban and large square sunglasses as she posed for the camera.

'Hard to believe it’s almost Christmas with weather like this,' Iggy captioned the snap.

Busty in Bali! Iggy has been tirelessly promoting her latest song Lola by posting racy bikini selfies. Picture in a red bikini while on holiday in Bali

Iggy's latest post comes just a day after she went braless in a denim dress with a extremely low cut neckline.

Over the past few weeks, Iggy has been tirelessly promoting her new single Lola, which features rising pop star Alice Chater.

Last week, the pair performed the track at the International Music Awards in Berlin, but despite the heavy media push, the track has failed to impact the charts.

Taking the plunge: Iggy's latest post comes just a day after she went braless in a denim dress with a extremely love cut neckline

The rapper's flailing career was faced with more struggles earlier this month when she repeatedly delayed the release of her new EP, Wicked Lips.

Iggy claimed that the first delay was due to problems with mixing one of the tracks on the project, but later cited mental health issues as the reason for a second delay.

The troubled star then bizarrely lashed out at her fans on Twitter for complaining about the delays, claiming that they weren't respecting her mental health.

Wet and wild! The 29-year-old rapper proudly flaunted her taut bikini body on Thursday while swimming in the pool of her private villa in Bali

'I just don't f**k with "fans" who don't respect when people voice that they need a min to be mentally okay,' she raged.

'Y'all fake care about mental health until you are slightly inconvenienced by it, and that's the tea,' she added.

The EP finally hit iTunes at the start of the month, but missed out on a spot on the Billboard 200 altogether.

It's the second major flop for Iggy in less than six months, after her anticipated second album In My Defense failed to impress in July.

'Woke up today feeling a little defeated': Iggy broke down in July after learning that her comeback album, In My Defense, tanked on the U.S. Billboard charts

The album was savaged by critics, who accused the rapper of relying on cultural appropriation and gimmicks in order to sell records.

'The album is stacked with cartoonish approximations of what she thinks a rap song should sound like,' wrote Pitchfork, who gave the album a 3.8 out of 10.

Meanwhile, a critic for Clash was just as brutal, writing: 'There’s a borrowed feel across the album, it’s as if she thinks that's what we want to hear, as opposed to what is truly on her mind.'

Following the cold response, Iggy broke down on Twitter and revealed she was feeling 'defeated' after learning her LP had debuted at No. 50 on the Billboard 200.