Sophomore Joey Baker scored a career-best 22 points, and Vernon Carey Jr. added 20 points and 10 rebounds as fourth-ranked Duke returned to action from a layoff and drubbed visiting Wofford 86-57 on Thursday night in Durham, N.C.

There was no encore for Wofford, which toppled North Carolina four days earlier in nearby Chapel Hill.

Duke (10-1), which hadn't played since Dec. 6, opened a 26-15 lead on the way to its fourth straight victory.

Duke played without sophomore point guard Tre Jones, who sat out with a mild sprain in his left foot. Junior guard Jordan Goldwire made his second career start in Jones' spot and finished with eight points and five assists.

Backup forward Matthew Hurt notched 12 points for Duke. Baker, another reserve, made five second-half 3-pointers.

Tray Hollowell, who drained three consecutive 3-pointers in the second half, posted 17 points off the bench for the Terriers (7-5). Wofford had its five-game winning streak snapped.

Wofford made 14 shots from 3-point range at North Carolina, then went 4-for-9 from long distance in the first half at Duke and 10-for-24 for the game.

Wofford's problems expanded when starting post player Chevez Goodwin picked up his fourth foul with 18:05 remaining. Less than 75 seconds later, Terriers forward Trevor Stumpe had four fouls.

Soon, Duke stretched its advantage to 52-30.

Duke freshman Cassius Stanley, who was scoreless in limited action in the team's most-recent game as he came off a one-game absence caused by a leg injury, hit a 3-pointer on the Blue Devils' first possession.

Jones sustained his injury in practice. His average of 15.6 points per game ranks second on the team.

This was the second game in a row that Wofford met an Atlantic Coast Conference team that was missing its normal starting point guard. North Carolina's Cole Anthony sat out his first game of the season Sunday when Wofford upset the then-No. 17 Tar Heels.

Duke played its first game at Cameron Indoor Stadium since Nov. 29. This marked the team's only game during a three-week span.

--Field Level Media