Wayne and Coleen Rooney have reportedly installed state-of-the-art security at their new £20million Cheshire mansion.

Construction workers are said to have created an underground tunnel complete with a secret bunker and electric car- which is permanently on standby.

The precautions come after Coleen, 33, had 'sleepless nights' and feared for her children's safety following an attempted burglary at their old £6million home in 2016.

Installation: Wayne and Coleen Rooney have reportedly installed state-of-the-art security at their new £20million Cheshire mansion

The Sun reports the tunnel has steel doors to ensure maximum security.

At the end the publication states there is an underground bunker with kitchen, toilet, internet connection and CCTV.

There is also said to be an electric car on stand-by that can whisk the family away in the event of an emergency.

MailOnline has contacted Wayne and Coleen's representatives for comment.

Scare: The precautions come after Coleen, 33, had 'sleepless nights' and feared for her children's safety following an attempted burglary at their £6million home (pictured in April)

Coleen and Wayne were victims of an attempted burglary in 2016 and the WAG said at the time the incident left her 'fearing for my children playing outside in the garden'.

Robert McNamara from Scarborough, North Yorkshire, admitted attempting to enter as a trespasser at the Manchester United striker’s family home in Prestbury, Cheshire, with intent to steal on 3 August 2016.

The former serviceman was jailed for two years and eight months.

Following the scare, the couple set about building their dream home and ensured the security was top of their priorities.

Dream home: Work is still being done of the 40-acre plot and the lavish home is said to feature its own bar, snooker room, cinema and indoor swimming pool (pictured in May)

Work is still being done of the 40-acre plot and the lavish home is said to feature its own bar, snooker room, cinema and indoor swimming pool.

It will have six bedrooms, all with en-suites, big enough to accommodate their four sons, Kai, 10, Klay, six, Kit, three, and Cass, 21 months.

The mega-mansion is also believed to house a spa with a plunge pool, a six car garage and an orangery and a stable where they will be able to keep up to 15 horses.

MailOnline previously reported that a wine cellar and football pitch are also being constructed on the sprawling pile.

Guests will be able to opt for 'his' or 'hers' changing rooms, and after a dip they can pop outside to the extensive patio and landscaped gardens.

When completed, the property will have two floors as well as a subterranean basement, which will be home to the steam room, hot-tub, gym, cinema room with ten seats, wine cellar and snooker room with bar.

Scaffolding was removed from the six-bedroom home earlier this year, but finishing touches are still being made on the property’s numerous interior spaces and two outbuildings.