The Jonas Brothers just wrapped their final tour stop of their Happiness Begins Tour in Los Angeles.

And now, Nick Jonas, 27, has returned home to the Big Apple to do some last minute Christmas shopping.

The singer bundled up for his afternoon stroll after recently revealing he will be spending his holidays in Los Angeles with his wife Priyanka Chopra, 37.

Out and about: Nick Jonas has returned home to the Big Apple after his U.S. Happiness Begins Tour to do some last minute Christmas shopping during his Thursday afternoon

The Jumanji: The Next Level star stepped out in a large forest green and suede puffy coat with fringe detailing along the chest.

He paired the look with black denim jeans and tan combat boots.

As he walked he carried a small brown clutch and sported a pair of black aviator sunglasses from Ray-Ban.

Stylish: The Jumanji star stepped out in a large forest green and suede puffy coat with fringe detailing along the chest. His glasses are by Ray-Ban

Recently, it was announced that Nick and his wife decided to celebrate their first wedding anniversary by revealing their very own show is in the works.

Amazon Studios officially gave the greenlight for the couple's new unscripted series that is also set to be executive produced by the pair.

The series was inspired by the pre-wedding tradition inspired by the Indian culture of the sangeet.

Red Dress: Back in October Nick and Priyanka Chopra stepped out for some dinner at Craig's in Los Angeles

According to Deadline, casting is currently underway for the project which is set to begin production in the new year.

According to the synopsis the series 'is a celebration of the love, marriage, and magic that ensues when friends and family come together through music and dance the evening before the wedding.'

'We re-watched the video of our Sangeet last week on our first anniversary, and the togetherness of our family and friends during this event still sparks the same warmth and excitement that it did just over a year ago at our wedding,' Chopra Jonas revealed.

'The days leading up to our Sangeet were some of the most special, memorable moments of the weekend,' the singer continued. 'Bringing the concept of this musical celebration to the mainstream in a new way, through couples setting out on one of the most exciting journeys of their life, is an idea that we are proud to bring to life with Amazon.'

Gotta Catch My Breath: Nick and his wife share a laugh while out in London back in July