Nicole Kidman was back at work on the set of the much-anticipated musical film The Prom in Los Angeles on Thursday.

The Hollywood A-lister was spotted chatting with one of the crew members as she prepared to shoot a scene for the comedy that also stars Meryl Streep and James Corden.

The cast also includes the likes of Andrew Rannells, Awkwafina, Kerry Washington, Keegan-Michael Key and Broadway veteran Ariana DeBose.

Preparing for scene: Nicole Kidman, 52, consults a crew member on the set of the Musical comedy The Prom in Los Angeles on Thursday

On this day Kidman,52, kept it fashionably casual dressed in black leggings that were tucked into calf-high black boots and a long orange turtleneck sweater.

She also pulled her long blonde tresses in a loose bun, with the exception of some strands of hair along the side of her face.

After a brief conversation, the pair both went their separate ways in preparation for the day's work at hand.

Fashionably casual: Kidman was spotted dressed in black leggings that were tucked into calf-high black boots and a long orange turtleneck sweater

The Prom, based on the Broadway musical of the same name, is part of Glee and American Horror Story creator Ryan Murphy's five-year deal with Netflix reported to be worth between $250 million and $300 million.

The stage version received seven 2019 Tony nominations and was named Broadway.com's 2018 Show Of The Year.

In the film Kidman, Streep and Corden are part of a troupe of hilariously self-obsessed Broadway theater actors starring in a play about Eleanor Roosevelt, which ends up getting panned by critics.

Adaption: The Prom is based on the Broadway musical of the same name that received seven 2019 Tony nominations and was named Broadway.com's 2018 Show Of The Year

In an effort to resurrect their careers, they move to a small conservative town in Indiana, where they plan to support a teen girl who isn't allowed to take her girlfriend to the high school prom.

Once filming halts for the holidays, Kidman's expected to join husband Keith Urban and their two daughters, Sunday Rose, 11, and Faith Margaret, 8, in their native Australia for the festive season.

The Prom has been slated to premiere on Netflix sometime in 2020.