Kim Kardashian did not wear darker makeup in a shoot for 7Hollywood's Winter 2020 magazine cover of that's generated talk of a 'blackface' controversy, according to an insider.

A source close to the reality TV star, 39, told Page Six on Thursday that the way in which the shoot was lit led to the misconception she was made up to look like her skin is darker.

'It's the lighting that makes her look darker in this specific image,' the source told the outlet, adding that the image the publication's editors chose to use for the front cover.

The latest: Kim Kardashian, 39, did not wear darker makeup in a shoot for 7Hollywood's Winter 2020 magazine cover of that's generated talk of a 'blackface' controversy, an insider told Page Six

'There are multiple covers and images from this shoot where the lighting looks more natural,' the source told the outlet.

'People are so quick to find the negative in everything and also often forget that she is of Armenian descent.'

The cover featuring the mother-of-four — to daughter North, six, son Saint, four, daughter Chicago, one, and son Psalm, seven months, with husband Kanye West — was the target of a number of negative comments on Instagram, as both Kim and the publication were called out over the cover on their respective pages.

Confusion? The way in which the shoot was lit led to the misconception she was made up to look like her skin is darker, an insider close to Kim told Page Six

Kim's fans wrote comments including, 'Kim this is a no for me, sorry,' and 'I thought this was a black woman...'

One user wrote: 'wtf is this, be yourself, stop this... Especially since black women are still demonized for our skin.'

Another person commented to Kim, 'You look very beautiful Kim, but it’s getting to a point where you’re hurting my feelings. It’s hard being a black woman.'

Feedback: The cover featuring the mother-of-four was the target of a number of negative comments on Instagram

Upset: People expressed their disappointment on 7Hollywood's page about the shoot

Others compared Kim's look to black celebrities such as Beyonce, Diana Ross and the late Diahann Carroll.

Other commenters focused on the magazine itself, with one person saying, 'They did entirely too much editing. Her skin is too dark. Stay true to color.'

One user said, 'I don’t understand how a magazine in this day in age could do something like this? This is f***ing disgusting,' while another remarked the photo was 'completely distasteful and offensive.'