Colorado wide receiver K.D. Nixon changed his mind about entering the NFL draft and will return to the Buffaloes for his senior season in 2020.

"After thoughtful evaluation and conversations with (coach Mel) Tucker and others about my future in football -- and beyond, I have decided to continue my college football career at Colorado, earn my degree and declare for the NFL Draft in 2021," Nixon said in a statement released Thursday. "I look forward to contributing to the Buffaloes next season and making a difference for our team."

Nixon never signed with an agent.

He caught 35 passes for 465 yards and three touchdowns in 12 games in 2019, raising his three-year career totals to 89 receptions for 1,118 yards and seven scores.

--Running back Frank Gore Jr., who announced in June that he would play college football at Florida Atlantic, flipped his commitment to sign a national letter of intent with Southern Miss.

The son of Buffalo Bills running back Frank Gore played at Miami Killian Senior High School, and he was ranked as a three-star prospect and the No. 65 running back and No. 129 Florida high school prospect on the 247Sports composite.

According to the South Florida Sun-Sentinel, Gore made an official visit to Southern Miss in Hattiesburg on Dec. 6, the day before FAU head coach Lane Kiffin announced he was leaving to become head coach at Ole Miss. His father starred at Miami from 2001-04 and is currently the No. 3 all-time rusher in NFL history.

--Five-star offensive tackle Broderick Jones won't sign with Georgia this week during the early signing period, according to Rivals.

Jones, the highest-rated offensive player in Georgia's 2020 class, has decided to defer his official commitment until February's National Signing Day and visit both Georgia and Auburn next month, according to the report.

The 6-foot-5, 275-pound lineman from Lithonia, Ga., made two unofficial visits to Auburn in November. He committed to Georgia in April 2018.

--The Houston Cougars must vacate three wins from the 2018 football season due to academic misconduct.

According to an NCAA report released Wednesday, a former tutor in the athletic department wrote four papers for two unnamed players in exchange for $205 over a period of about six weeks.

Because one of those players competed in games while ineligible due to the academic misconduct, the Cougars' official record that season under former coach Major Applewhite drops from 8-5 to 5-8. Dana Holgorsen now is Houston's coach.

--LSU has won the Joe Moore Award, which recognizes the most outstanding offensive line in college football.

The Foundation for Teamwork, which has presented the award annually since 2015, made an unexpected visit to Baton Rouge, La., to notify the No. 1 Tigers of the award.

Quarterback Joe Burrow thanked his offensive line to start his Heisman Trophy acceptance speech on Saturday as LSU set a number of school offensive single-season records, including points (621), scoring average (47.8), games with 40 or more points (10) and 50-point games (six).

--Field Level Media