Luisa Zissman has hit back at claims she wrongly identified a man who she believed had stolen her £250 Christmas wreath after she tracked down the thief.

The former Apprentice star, 31, shared a video of a red Land Rover on her Instagram Stories, suggesting this may be the person who had stolen the festive item after she spotted a similar one in the Potters Bar, Herts, area.

After spotting the video on the photo-sharing site a local man named James Gibbs suggested Luisa had wrongly accused him of stealing her wreath.

Not me! Luisa Zissman has hit back at claims she wrongly identified a man who she believed had stolen her £250 Christmas wreath after she tracked down the thief

James told the Sun Online: 'I watched the video and thought, 'Hang on, I have had nothing to do with this'.

'Anyone could see her video. They could then target me or my car by driving into the side of me or anything. I am a bit frightened.

'It's disgusting being accused of something that you haven't done. She's wrecking my reputation.'

Festive thief: The former Apprentice star, 31, shared a video of a red Land Rover on her Instagram Stories, suggesting that this may be the person who had stolen the festive item after she spotted a similar one in the Potters Bar, Herts, area

Luisa has since hit back on the social media platform and claimed she has done nothing to identify the man, insisting she didn't know or publish his name, address or registration number.

Following the drama, Luisa revealed the two of her luxury wreaths that were stolen were eventually returned to her home.

However shortly after one was then stolen again, leading to her decision to raffle it off for charity.

'Let’s turn a negative into a positive. I was going to call my lawyers and stop this story but then thought why should I spend £1000 killing it when I’ve done nothing wrong.

'The man that’s selling the story obviously wants his 5 minutes of fame and wants everyone to know his name (I don’t even know his name or what house he lives in, so how he is claiming i’m accusing him of being THE wreath thief is absurd) anyway....

'I’m raffling the last wreath to raise money for Outreach Moldova. Donate a minimum of £2 to www.justgiving.com/luisaandsam and comment “raffle my wreath, before the next thief” and your name. I’ll choose a winner at random tomorrow & post it to you!!.'

Hitting out: After spotting the video on the photo-sharing site a local man named James Gibbs suggested that Luisa had wrongly accused him of stealing her wreath

In a statement to MailOnline Luisa added: 'It is obvious to see that I have not accused anyone of stealing. Any person seriously concerned by either my comments or their security should go to the police not the press.

'I do not know this gentleman, I simply showed a car which matched a description on my CCTV – it is for very good reason I did not show the reg. plate, house or street name.

'The whole story and situation is ludicrous. However, good has come from the national attention he has now directed at me (and ironically himself).

'I have since received over £13,000 in donations for my 'Outreach Moldova' children’s charity as I have given my followers the chance to win my remaining Christmas wreath. That is what Christmas should be about – positivity, and giving to others.'