La La Anthony stepped out in an all-black leather look while hosting an event in New York City on Thursday.

The 38 year old wife of NBA star Carmelo Anthony was all smiles while hosting La La Anthony Presents: Winter Wonderland Benefiting Girls Inc. and The Police Athletic League event in New York City.

She was also seen on stage in her hosting capacity at the event, held at Gauchos Gym in The Bronx.

La La in black: La La Anthony stepped out in an all-black leather look while hosting an event in New York City on Thursday

Anthony turned heads in a black leather jumpsuit with the zipper pulled down to create a plunging neckline.

She had a black leather belt around her waist and black pumps as she stepped out to host the event.

She completed her look with a small gold chain with a small photo of her son Kyan in the pendant with jeweled accessories around her forehead.

Leather clad: Anthony turned heads in a black leather jumpsuit with the zipper pulled down to create a plunging neckline

This is the fourth year of Anthony's Winter Wonderland event, though her husband Carmelo Anthony was not present at the event.

The NBA All-Star, currently in his 18th season, signed with the Portland Trailblazers in November, and was playing in Portland on Wednesday against the Golden State Warriors.

Anthony married the basketball player in 2010 after a six-year engagement, during which La La gave birth to their son Kiyan in March 2017.

Career opportunities: Born in Brooklyn, Anthony started her career in the radio, before joining MTV in 2001 where she would go on to host Direct Effect and Total Request Live

Born in Brooklyn, Anthony started her career in the radio, before joining MTV in 2001 where she would go on to host Direct Effect and Total Request Live.

She left the network in 2003 to create her own production company, Krossover Productions, and she produced the critically-acclaimed documentary Tyson.

She also transitioned to acting with roles in Two Can Play That Game, You Got Served and Think Like a Man and Think Like a Man Too.

Career: Born in Brooklyn, Anthony started her career in the radio, before joining MTV in 2001 where she would go on to host Direct Effect and Total Request Live

Anthony most recently starred in Fox's meta reboot BH90210, playing the wife of Brian Austin Green's character.

She also plays Lakeisha Grant in the hit Starz series Power, which will return for the back half of the sixth and final season January 6, 2020.

Anthony was also recently seen in the Netflix Christmas movie Holiday Rush, and she also has a role in Showtime's The Chi.