Kyle Sandilands, 48,has revealed the interesting way his late father Peter educated him about women's periods during an appearance on KIIS FM's 3pm Pick Up show.

While discussing co-host Yumi Stynes' book, Welcome to Your Period, the radio star shared his childhood experience with listeners on Wednesday.

'He brought out a glass of water and a tampon and said "Imagine this glass of water is your mother's vagina and the water is blood. Once a month the blood needs to be soaked up",' he explained.

'He dipped the tampon in the water!' Kyle Sandilands (pictured) has revealed the shocking way his father educated him about periods on KIIS FM's 3pm Pick Up show on Wednesday

'He dipped the tampon in the water and put it on the bench and I'm sitting there with my eyes open thinking what the hell,' he continued.

Kyle added: [My dad] goes "any questions" and I said "no" and that's how I found out about it.'

Co-host Katie 'Monty' Dimond, laughed as Kyle retold his story and said: 'If Yumi goes for book two maybe she can do a video to accompany it.'

Shocking! While discussing co-host Yumi Stynes' (pictured) book, Welcome to Your Period, he shared his childhood experience with listeners

'Maybe I can do a guest page,' Kyle joked before Yumi reassured him that would never happen.

Kyle's appearance on the 3pm Pick Up show comes one day after he returned from a holiday in Cairns with his rumoured new girlfriend, Tegan Kynaston.

Kyle celebrated the blonde's 34th birthday during the trip and meet Tegan's family, one month after splitting from his ex Imogen Anthony.

New romance? Kyle's appearance on the 3pm Pick Up show comes one day after he returned from a holiday in Cairns with his rumoured new girlfriend, Tegan Kynaston (pictured)

It was revealed Kyle had split from his longtime partner last month, after eight years of dating.

He announced his shock split with Imogen, 28, in early November, revealing the pair hadn't lived together for 'quite some time'.

'We haven't been with each other for quite a few months now. Unfortunately it's run its course,' he said on The Kyle and Jackie O Show.