Pictured: Yevgeny Manyurov, 39, a security guard from the Moscow suburb of Podolsk, fired shots outside the FSB headquarters in Lubyanka Square just before 6pm local time on Thursday

This is the first picture of the man shot dead by police after storming the Russian security service in Moscow.

Yevgeny Manyurov, 39, a security guard from the Moscow suburb of Podolsk, fired shots outside the FSB headquarters in Lubyanka Square just before 6pm local time on Thursday.

The dramatic shootout left three people dead, five injured and passers-by running through the streets in terror.

One of the casualties was an FSB officer, the agency confirmed late yesterday.

Special forces were drafted in to 'neutralise' the attacker, who was later seen lifeless and covered in blood on the pavement.

The horror unfolded shortly after President Vladimir Putin delivered his annual news conference and while he was speaking at a Kremlin event designed to celebrate the work of the security services.

The FSB, the main successor to the Soviet-era KGB, suspected the attack may have been planned to coincide with Putin's speech, a source close to the agency told Reuters.

The well-educated gunman lived with his mother and was an active member of an amateur shooting club, reported BAZA news outlet, who published the first picture of Manyurov.

Manyurov had told his mother he was going to a shooting competition when he went to the FSB's main public reception office and opened fire.

Despite earlier suggestions of more than one attacker, the Russian authorities now believe Manyurov acted alone.

Investigators are believed to have classed the attack as a terrorist incident.

Three people died during the shooting in Moscow near the Federal Security Service building (pictured is an officer during the incident)

Special forces were drafted in to 'neutralise' the attacker, who was later seen lifeless and covered in blood on the pavement (pictured)

The dramatic shootout left three people dead, five injured and passers-by running through the streets in terror

The killer had worked as a security guard registered with private agencies and studied at the Russian Academy of Justice.

He also completed courses at the prestigious Higher School of Economics in Moscow.

He previously ran own consulting business, which he closed in 2015.

His interest in shooting competitions appeared to be recent.

In November he took third place in pistol competitions of the Moscow city shooting and sports club DOSAAF.

One month ago, he participated in a shooting match in memory of FSB hero Lieutenant Colonel Dmitry Razumovsky, who died during the terrorist school siege of Beslan in 2004, said reports early Friday in Moscow.

At about the same time as the shooting happened, Putin (pictured center with other Russian officials this afternoon), a KGB veteran, made a speech at a Kremlin concert for FSB and other Russian security personnel

Footage posted on social media showed automatic gunfire hitting the walls of the FSB's main building on Lubyanka Square in central Moscow.

Sirens, gunshots and screams were heard by people in the area, which is also a busy shopping district popular with tourists that is a short walk from the Kremlin.

Vladimir Putin's spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, said the president had been informed of the shooting that came shortly after the Russian leader's annual news conference.

At about the same time as the shooting happened, Putin, a KGB veteran, made a speech at a Kremlin concert for FSB and other Russian security personnel.

In a speech marking the date the Soviet secret police was founded, Putin hailed its officers for their efforts in combating terrorism and organized crime.

Freelance journalist Sotiri Dimpinoudis reported that a 'loud explosion' was heard 'in the perimeter of the FSB building' shortly after the shooting occurred.

Russian special forces with automatic weapons were deployed and five ambulances were seen leaving the scene.

At least ten gunshots are said to have been heard with one man shouting 'Stop, I said stop'.

One man wounded was named as Ilya Fisenko, 32. It has been reported that he was a traffic policeman on duty outside the FSB headquarters and died at the scene.

Video shared on social media shows one person holding a gun on the empty street while another clip, right, shows another person outside

Russian special forces' officers (pictured in Moscow on Thursday night) were deployed to the scene with some reports saying they had to storm the fourth entrance of the FSB building

Putin said earlier on Thursday that 54 terrorism related crimes - including 33 attacks - had been prevented by his security services this year.

The incident came on the eve of the Day of Security Service which is celebrated on December 20.

Videos shared on social media show people, thought to be officers, making their way along an empty street and terrified members of the public running away.

According to conflicting reports, an unknown man fired at the FSB checkpoint and ran out into the street before barricading himself in buildings.

Several ambulances were seen leaving the scene near the FSB building on Thursday evening

The motive behind the shooting is unknown but it came after Putin said that 54 terrorism related crimes had been prevented by his security services this year

Several officers are seen on guard after the shooting which the FSB said occurred at a building directly behind its headquarters on Lubyanka Square

Channel 112 reported that two people were killed and that there were three attackers, with one cornered and 'shooting back'.

An Otkrytye Media source also said there were three attackers: two of them were shot dead, while one fled outside and continued shooting.

Spetsnaz troops are also thought to have stormed the fourth entrance of the FSB building where the shooter allegedly was holed up, say reports.

Minutes later there were reports that the gunman had been 'neutralised'. This third shooter was said to be firing from either a machine gun or Saiga rifle.

There has been conflicting reports over the number of people wounded and killed but the FSB later said one of its officers had died (police officers are seen patrolling in central Moscow)

A woman is seen taking a picture of a police officer near to the shooting site on Thursday

It was originally reported that the gunman got into the FSB building, but the agency later said this did not happen and the shooting occurred directly behind its headquarters

An Interior Ministry source also said a man had opened fire with a machine gun.

Witness Maria Tarasova said: 'I was sitting with a friend at Starbucks right opposite the FSB building when the shooting started.

'The personnel asked us to move away from windows and hide behind columns, and then told us to move to a safer area.

'There are about 30 of us here. We are all without our coats and bags. The shooting started around 7pm or 7.10pm. (4/4.15pm London time)'.

Dozens of people gathered on corners after the incident, with a section of the road having been cordoned off by police

An officer is seen keeping watch near the scene this evening. An Interior Ministry source also said a man had opened fire with a machine gun

Russia's FSB security service 'neutralised' the shooter at its headquarters in Lubyanka Square (a security officer is seen on guard close to the scene)

Several police vehicles are seen arriving at the scene on Thursday night. Investigators are said to have classed the incident as 'an act of terrorism'

Traffic is blocked and nearby buildings are shut. Central Moscow was 'paralysed' with people ordered to leave public transport at rush hour.

The Lubyanka shooting came soon after Putin had said that 54 terrorism related crimes - including 33 attacks - had been prevented by his security services this year.

He spoke ahead of a concert marking the annual day of the security services tomorrow.

'Today, the clear, efficient and well-coordinated work of the security services has allowed us to achieve tangible success in ensuring Russia's security,' said the Russian president.

'I want to thank you and your colleagues for professionalism, courage and determination.'

Some local media reports have suggested that three people may have been involved in the shooting (a special forces officer is seen on the streets on Thursday evening)

Central Moscow was 'paralysed' with people ordered to leave public transport at rush hour after the shooting