Piers Morgan hosted a star studded Christmas party on Thursday evening which attracted an star-studded guest list.

So no doubt his 'TV wife' Susanna Reid was top of the list, with the pair looking in high spirits as they enjoyed the evening together.

Susanna, 49, shared a selfie from inside the bash as she quipped: 'Last time you’ll see us together this decade. #piersmorgansparty'.

Dream team: Susanna Reid, 49, shared a selfie with Piers Morgan, 54, from his star studded Christmas bash teasing fans 'This is the last time you'll see us together this decade'

For the party, GMB host Susanna was looked dazzling as she headed into the Scarsdale Tavern, Kensington.

Opting for a classic black coat paired with a lacy black dress underneath, Susanna matched her red court shoes with a pop of scarlet on her lips for a festive touch.

She wore her glossy brunette tresses in loose curls cascading around her shoulders and was seen beaming as she partied alongside ITV elite.

Glamorous: The breakfast host was pictured looking dazzling while at the bash held at Scarsdale Tavern, Kensington

Susanna and Piers, 54, celebrated the start of their Christmas break on GMB on Wednesday morning on the last show of the year.

And they certainly went out with a bang.

Susanna played curious bystander as Piers necked expensive wine before 7am.

Cheers: Susanna and Piers celebrated the start of their Christmas break on GMB on Wednesday morning on the last show of the year

The tee-total presenter looked on as Piers, a self-confessed lover of fine wines, competed to win a vintage 1978 bottle of Pétrus, worth £4,300.

With Piers attempting to discern the expensive red wine from a significantly cheaper alternative, he was successful and won the expensive bottle.

Raising the bottle, he announced: ‘To my brother Jeremy, who’s watching. He’s an army Colonel, just back for a few days from Cyprus, where he’s out there doing lots of stuff. He’ll be back there for Christmas. We’re gonna have this, this week.’