They recently bagged $250,000 after coming first in 2019's gruelling season of The Amazing Race.

And it appears Tim Sattler and Rod Jones are still on cloud nine, as they were pictured looking happier than ever at Sydney's Coogee Beach on Thursday.

Tim, 29, and Rod, 28, packed on the PDA during the sweet outing, as they cuddled up while enjoying the blazing summer sun.

So in love! The Amazing Race winners Tim Sattler (left) and Rod Jones (right) are still on cloud nine after the huge win, as they were pictured looking happier than ever at Sydney's Coogee Beach on Thursday

The confident duo flaunted their sensational physiques in tiny budgy smuggler swimwear, which showed off their muscular legs and washboard abs to perfection.

Tim opted for a vibrant blue pair for the occasion, while Rod wore a tiny white, red and orange number.

The genetically-blessed duo - who are married but got engaged for the second time during the emotional season finale - were then seen sharing a romantic smooch on the sand, before marching to the ocean hand-in-hand.

Dripping with style! Tim opted for a vibrant blue pair for the occasion, while Rod wore a tiny white, red and orange number

Packing on the PDA: The happy couple were then seen sharing a sweet smooch on the sand

Enjoying the summer: The pair were then seen holding hands as they walked to the ocean together for a quick dip

Fun in the sun! The pair were all smiles as they frolicked in the ocean

The pair were all smiles as they frolicked in the water, with Tim climbing on his man's shoulders before holding him in a sweet embrace.

Their appearance comes just weeks after they were crowned champions of the tense challenge show, with Jasmin Onus and Jerome Cubillo coming a close second.

After dashing to host Beau Ryan following the final challenge, the duo were told they had won the $250,000 prize money - with Tim branding it 'the greatest feeling in the world'.

Living it up! The pair were all smiles as they frolicked in the water, with Tim climbing on his man's shoulders before holding him in a sweet embrace

Champions: The confident duo flaunted their muscular physiques in tiny budgy smuggler swimwear, showing off their muscular legs and washboard abs in the process

After realising they had won, Tim emotionally proposed to his husband again - citing he was frustrated that Rod had been the first to pop the question to him years ago.

Staring at his loved one, Tim said: 'I love you so much, honestly. My best mate, my soulmate, my king, my queen, my everything.'

'I was so scared growing up of what my future might look like, but when you came into my world, all that fear went away.'

Joy! The pair originally married in March, two years after getting together

The amazing erase! Tim (left) had proposed to his already-husband Rod (right) during the show's epic finale

He continued: 'I love you with every ounce of my heart and soul. I can't wait to spend the rest of our lives together.'

'No matter what the future holds, no matter what road block, what U-turn, what detour... if we're doing it together, we'll always make it to that pit stop hand-in-hand.'

The pair originally married in March, two years after getting together.

Discussing his reasoning for proposing again, Tim told The Daily Telegraph that he had always wanted to do it, but it was just about where and when.

He gushed: 'I thought, what better opportunity than to do it on the final pit stop in front of Beau Ryan and all the other racers - it would go down in the history books.'