She was recently the victim of a violent mugging after intervening to help an elderly woman who was being attacked.

Yet Katherine Jenkins put the terrifying incident aside on Thursday as she glamorously arrived for Piers Morgan's Christmas party in Kensington.

The mezzo soprano, 39, rocked a stunning belted white coat and showed off her pearly white teeth as she smiled for fans on arrival at the star-studded bash.

Katherine Jenkins, 39, had had rediscovered the wow factor on Thursday as she glamorously arrived for Piers Morgan's Christmas party in Kensington

The singer's shimmering blonde tresses hung in flowing waves around her shoulders, while her neutral make-up palette emphasised her natural features.

Holding an umbrella to shield herself from the rain, Katherine's lengthy coat kept the her warm in the winter chill.

And on he feet, the star added a pair of shining black heels.

Katherine has been married to Andrew Levitas, 41, since 2014 and the couple have daughter together, Aaliyah Reign, who was born in 2015.

The mezzo soprano rocked a stunning belted white coat and showed off her pearly white teeth as she smiled for fans while holding an umbrella to shield herself from the rain

Her outing comes after the singer was mugged earlier this month.

She was targeted after coming to the aid of an elderly woman who was being attacked by two girls.

Two weeks ago, a 15-year-old girl was charged with robbery and assault after the opera singer was left in tears after the mugging.

Looking good: The singer's shimmering blonde tresses hung in flowing waves around her shoulders, while her make-up palette emphasised her natural features

Jovial: After an evening of partying, Katherine climbed into a waiting taxi to make her way home

Jovial: The star was in high spirits despite her recent mugging ordeal, as she enjoyed the evening of festive celebrations

She had been on her way to a memorial concert, attended by Pippa and Carole Middleton, when she was attacked - but still went on stage to sing because she 'didn't want to let the charity down'.

While waiting for police to arrive, Katherine had understandably appeared close to tears.

Two 15-year-old girls were arrested on suspicion of robbery, the Metropolitan Police said.

Brave: Katherine's outing comes after the singer was mugged earlier this month (pictured on the day)

Katherine's spokesman confirmed the mugging and said that the singer had seen the elderly woman being attacked and gone over to assist her, before falling victim herself.

Katherine then went on to attend the service at nearby St Luke's Church.

Her agent said: 'Miraculously, Katherine still managed to perform at the concert as she didn't want to let the charity down.'

It was organised by the Henry van Straubenzee Memorial Fund – set up shortly after the 18-year-old, who was a close friend of Princes William and Harry – died in a car crash in 2002.