Everton have revealed their final stadium designs before submitting a detailed planning application to Liverpool City Council on Monday.

At the very heart of the final proposal for the 52,000-seater stadium, which is expected to cost £500million, is a stunning brick, steel and glass ground, which takes its inspiration from the historic maritime and warehouse buildings nearby.

The structure of the stadium at Bramley-Moore Dock combines the historic and the modern, with the brick base taking inspiration from Goodison Park's famous Archibald Leitch lattice work.

Everton have revealed their final designs for their exciting new 52,000-seater stadium

The ambitious structure of Everton's new stadium combines the historic and the modern

Meanwhile, the roof structure, which is made from steel and glass, gives the ambitious stadium a modern finish.

In the final stadium designs, the proposed multi-storey car park has been relocated from its previous waterfront location and now integrated within the ground.

Also, entertainment has been a big factor in the final designs, with the plans detailing extensive public spaces for use on both matchdays and non-matchdays.

There will be a Fan Plaza on the east side of the stadium, which will provide supporters with plenty of pre-match and post-match entertainment and activity.

It is anticipated that the stadium at Bramley-Moore Dock will be a three-year project

There will be a Fan Plaza on the east side for entertainment and activity purposes

Everton are very hopeful that the proposed new stadium, which is anticipated to be a three-year project starting in 2020, will have a huge impact both on and off the field.

Denise Barrett-Baxendale, chief executive of Everton, said: 'This is a huge milestone in the club's history but also a profound statement of intent for our future. It marks the culmination of many years of work that has combined the passion of our fans with world class design and a commitment to creating something truly special on Liverpool's waterfront.

'The stadium at Bramley-Moore Dock will deliver the best possible matchday experience for our fans, new facilities for cultural events and a building that will be a stunning new addition to Liverpool's built environment.

The proposed view from inside the 52,000-seater stadium at Bramley-Moore Dock

The fans have been given another teaser of what to expect from their state-of-the-art ground

Fans watch on in hospitality as the players walk out onto the pitch at the new stadium

'Our proposals are a commitment to a long and exciting future for the club in North Liverpool, and also for our award-winning charity, Everton in the Community, to continue to make a life-changing difference in L4.

'From its inception, we've always believed that this project can be a game-changer for North Liverpool. The vast amount of feedback and overwhelming support we received through our consultation has shown that the people of Liverpool understand that The People's Project isn't just about a new football ground – it's about regeneration, jobs and social value.

'If we are granted planning approval, this will be a world class football stadium in a world class location and a catalyst for Liverpool City Region's ongoing growth and success.'

A design of the proposed bars inside the ground, with big TV screens fixed above