They have been scheming together to try to take down love rat Robert after discovering he was engaged to them both.

And things are about to take a dramatic turn for Vicky Jeffries and Michelle Connor on Coronation Street, when Vicky goes into labour - forcing them to either blow their cover or take matters into their own hands.

On Friday night's episode, time runs out and Michelle (played by Kym Marsh) is forced to deliver Vicky's baby herself.

Dramatic: Friday night will see Michelle Connor (played by Kym Marsh) forced to deliver the baby of love rival Vicky Jeffries (played by Kerri Quinn)

Vicky (played by Kerri Quinn) has been hiding in a hotel room as part of the plan to frame Robert for her murder.

The two ladies had plotted together once they discovered they were both engaged to the same man.

But despite showing early signs of labour on Wednesday night, Vicky sent away Michelle saying she was fine.

Michelle the midwife: The duo are scheming together against love rat Robert, and with Vicky hiding in secret, there is no time for Michelle to get help

But when the labour progresses rapidly, Michelle is indeed forced to step in, in a dramatic Corrie twist.

Will the birth of the baby force the women to come clean about their plan and let Robert see his child? Or will Vicky and her son disappear without a trace?

Despite the relief of delivering the baby safely, Michelle is forced to revisit emotions of her own baby Ruari, who passed away after he was born prematurely.

Real heartbreak: The arrival of the baby brings up emotions for Michelle who lost her baby Ruari, as well as actress Kym, who lost her son Archie when he was born prematurely in 2009

For actress Kym, this storyline is close to home. She lost her own son Archie in 2009 seconds after he was born prematurely.

And on Thursday Kym's emotions were brought up again when a cruel troll left her 'in tears' when they took aim at her late son in a vicious Instagram comment.

The horrific comment read: 'Stop acting like your nice and kind and sweet and a sweetie Kym your nothing to corrie and me go to heaven like your s**t of a son [sic].'

Vicious troll: on Thursday Kym's emotions were brought up again when a cruel troll left her 'in tears' when they took aim at her late son in a vicious Instagram comment

The actress took a screenshot of the comment and uploaded it to her Instagram, and claimed she doesn't 'care what people say' about her, but this comment about her late son had left her upset.

Her caption read: 'This person @charley_webb_biggestfan has since deleted this comment that was very cruelly left on one of my Instagram posts this morning.

'I'm sorry, I don't really care what people say about me, people are allowed an opinion, that's none of my business, but to say such cruel things. I'm in tears reading this today. Something has to be done about this!'