Heston’s Marvellous Menu: Back To The Noughties

Rating:

The Cure

Rating:

Nostalgia used to mean something. Not any more. Chef Heston Blumenthal was getting all choked up about the way things were back in 2001 — a year so recent it still sounds futuristic to some of us.

Surely it’s an offence against sanity to regard any part of the 21st century as ‘the good old days’. To one of Heston’s trainee chefs, though, 2001 was prehistoric, so long ago that he can’t even remember it. ‘I was only three,’ he said.

This was a vanity project for Heston. He acknowledged as much, calling it ‘the chance to give myself a very nice pat on the back’

Heston’s Marvellous Menu: Back To The Noughties (BBC2) was harking back to the start of the millennium to celebrate one of his archetypal menus, with orange and beetroot jelly, truffles on dry ice and veal sweetbreads in a nest of smouldering hay.

To evoke the era, Heston restored the decor in his pub, The Fat Duck, to how it once was: square tables instead of round ones, unrolling the old carpet, that sort of thing.

Presenter Giles Coren treated us to a reading from one of his restaurant reviews that year, savouring every punctuation mark as if it were a melt-in-the-mouth beetroot jelly. Guest diners who were moderately famous 18 years ago, such as rock star Alex James and comedian Dom Joly, agreed that Heston was ‘the mad scientist of food’, as they tucked into the sort of meal they probably hadn’t tasted since, ooh, 2001.

Stilted greeting of the night Gregg Wallace was happy to kiss Shirley Ballas (and Joel Dommett) hello on I’ll Get This (BBC2). But he told Love Island’s Maura Higgins: ‘Let’s just shake hands. You’ll get make-up on my glasses.’ Merry Christmas to you too!

It’s baffling that Heston, who so prides himself on being an innovator and iconoclast, should want to take part in such an insipid show. There was barely enough meat here for one mouthful (rather like one of his veal sweetbread nests).

At one point we were reduced to watching the maitre d’ leafing through photos of the restaurant’s old chairs, before ordering replacements. And no, that wasn’t even the most boring bit — we visited the chair factory where the foreman was on the phone, talking about what time the delivery driver would arrive.

This was a vanity project for the chef. He acknowledged as much, calling it ‘the chance to give myself a very nice pat on the back’.

Anyone who sneers at his pretentious food, such as seafood served with headphones so you can listen to the waves breaking, will be dismissed as a philistine.

But I can’t forgive him for inventing the ‘triple-cooked chip’, those disgusting fat potato sticks that taste like pureed candyfloss encased in a coffin of fried starch. Every supermarket sells them now.

Still, it’s only food, and not important — unlike the hospital conditions highlighted in The Cure (C4). Like the legal drama Responsible Child earlier this week, this powerful one-off play told a real-life story.

Sian Brooke (right) as Julie Bailey and Sue Johnston (middle) as her mother Bella in The Cure

Sian Brooke was mesmerising as Julie Bailey, channelling her rage and grief after her mother died into exposing the malpractice and neglect at the hospital that effectively killed her.

At times, the characters were so starkly drawn — monstrous ward sister, cynical consultant — that this was not so much a TV drama, more a medieval morality play. But it’s easy to believe some of the characters at the notorious Stafford hospital in 2007 really were like that, especially the jargon-spouting manager who thought that spiralling mortality rates on the wards could be explained as a statistical anomaly.

More than half the 90 minutes was devoted to depicting the slow decline and death of Julie’s 86-year-old mum Bella, played by the ever-brilliant Sue Johnston.

A senior medic took one look at her and remarked she was ‘a woman of a certain age’. When the doctors start getting their excuses in early, run.