Sophie Monk has hit back at body shamers by stripping nude in a video filmed by her boyfriend Joshua Gross, after she was told by trolls she was 'too old' to be wearing bikinis.

Posting the clip on Instagram, the Love Island Australia strategically protected her modesty behind different objects as she walked through her holiday villa in Mauritius, naked.

'Someone told me: "Stop wearing bikinis, you are too old!" So I took their advice and stopped wearing them,' she joked in the caption of the video.

'I took their advice': Sophie Monk has hit back at body shamers by stripping nude in a video filmed by her boyfriend Joshua Gross, after she was told by trolls she was 'too old' to be wearing bikinis

'I think you should post what ever you want. As long as you're not hurting anyone,' she continued, adding the #womenempowerment at the end.

In the 30-second clip, filmed inside her luxurious hotel room at Club Med La Plantation d'Albion, Sophie is seen hiding behind jugs, a gigantic vase, pineapples, two cans of beer, a gift bag and flowers.

'Is there any milk in their Soph?,' Joshua asks, while Sophie holds two jugs before she quickly responds: 'Yeah, there's heaps.'

Want some fruit? Posting the clip on Instagram, the Love Island Australia strategically protected her modesty behind different objects as she walked through her holiday villa in Mauritius, naked

'Just checking out my presents': She also hid behind a flower and a gift bag

Letting it all out: And later she swims up from under the water to two waiting cans of beers

Moments later she's asked if she wants any fruit, before she's surprised by the pineapples in front of her, hiding her stunning figure.

And later she swims up from under the water to two waiting cans of beers.

Sophie's comments section was flooded with a show of support.

'That's the way to stick it up to them!' one fan wrote.

Another jokingly added: 'Well done Sophie that's the way to beat the knockers.'

You got it, flaunt it! Sophie has been displaying her envious figure all over her social media as she travels around the world with boyfriend Joshua

One follower said: 'You look amazing in a bikini! I wished she looked that good.'

The former Bachelorette has been travelling around the world with her boyfriend Joshua since first meeting him on a flight overseas.

Just last week he helped celebrate Sophie's 40th birthday, sharing a sweet tribute on social media.