Hilary Duff had her hands full on Thursday as she ran errands in LA's Sherman Oaks neighborhood.

The actress and singer, 32, carried her 13-month-old daughter Banks using both arms as she stepped out in a white knit sweater and black jeans with frayed hems.

Duff added a pair of animal print casual shoes and had a large black shoulder purse slung across her body.

Mommy and me: Hilary Duff had her hands full on Thursday as she ran errands in LA's Sherman Oaks neighborhood carrying her 13-month-old daughter Banks in both arms

The Lizzie McGuire star wore her blonde hair tied back from her face.

She accessorized with large hoop earrings and a diamond necklace.

Banks, whose father is musician Matthew Koma, was dressed in a brown top with frilly shoulders and patterned leggings along with brown socks and tiny Velcro sneakers.

She also a topknot fastened with a bow.

Casual: The actress and singer, 32, stepped out in a white knit sweater and black jeans with frayed hems. She added a pair of animal print casual shoes and a large black shoulder purse

Duff is also mom to seven-year-old son Luca, whom she shares with her ex-husband Mike Comrie.

She and Canadian NHL player Comrie married in 2010 and formalized their divorce in February 2016.

She started dating Koma in early 2017 and the pair announced their engagement this past May, seven months after welcoming their daughter.

Her pride and joy: Duff is also mom to son Luca, seven, whom she shares with ex-husband Mike Comrie. She posted this funny snap of her two kids visiting Santa to Instagram Wednesday

It's a busy time for Duff whose TV Land sitcom Younger has been renewed for a seventh season.

She's also currently filming a Lizzie McGuire reboot series for the Disney Plus streaming service.

The original series ran from 2001 to 2004 and spawned The Lizzie McGuire Movie that was released in theaters in 2003.

And if that wasn't enough, she recently hinted that she has some new music coming soon.

Last Saturday, she shared a photo of herself wearing headphones in a recording studio with Koma prompting her fans to speculate that she's working on an album.