Patrick Frazee (pictured), who was convicted last month of killing Kelsey Berreth in November 2018, was moved to a medium security prison this week in Colorado

A Colorado man serving a life sentence for beating his fiancee to death has been transferred from a maximum security prison to a medium security detention center.

Kevin Frazee, 33, was convicted last month for the November 2018 fatal beating of the mother of his infant daughter, 29-year-old Kelsey Berreth.

He was moved to the Arkansas Valley Correctional Facility, a medium security prison near Ordway, Colorado.

Frazee was listed as an inmate at the maximum security Colorado State Penitentiary in Canon City, Colorado, as recently as Tuesday, according to The Colorado Springs Gazette.

It is unclear why authorities moved Frazee to AVCF.

‘We have internal processes for evaluating offender placement based on needs and risk,’ Colorado Department of Corrections spokeswoman Annie Skinner told The Gazette.

‘Mr. Frazee has been assessed and placed accordingly.’

Last week, Colorado authorities released a new mugshot of Frazee.

After beating Berreth to death with a baseball bat on Thanksgiving of last year, he summoned his mistress Krystal Lee Kenney to Berreth's home to help him 'clean up a mess', she said.

Frazee is currently being held at the Arkansas Valley Correctional Facility, a medium security prison near Ordway, Colorado (seen above)

He was listed as an inmate at Colorado State Penitentiary (above) in Canon City, Colorado, as recently as Tuesday

It is unclear why Frazee was moved from the maximum security facility. The above image shows the main entrance to the penitentiary in Canon City in May 2017

The above image shows a prison cell at the Canon City penitentiary

Berreth's body was never found.

Frazee's motive has never been confirmed but in a wrongful death lawsuit filed by Berreth's family against him, they suggested he was driven by a looming custody battle.

They say they had broken up the day Berreth was murdered and that the pair were expected to fight over custody of their one-year-old daughter.

It took the Teller County jury just over two and a half hours to find Frazee guilty on all eight counts – murder in the first degree, three counts of solicitation to murder, felony murder and tampering with a dead body.

Scroll down for video

Frazee (left in in his mugshot) was sentenced to life behind bars in November. The Colorado rancher murdered his fiance Kelsey Berreth (together right) with a baseball bat

Frazee (pictured in 2018) is currently being held at the Denver Reception and Diagnostic Center. It's unclear when he will be transported to prison, but jail records show that he was moved from the Teller County Jail to the diagnostics center within the last 48 hours

Judge Scott Sells sentenced Frazee to life without parole for murder in the first degree and felony murder, to be followed by three consecutive sentences of the maximum 48 years each for the three counts of solicitation to murder and the maximum of 12 years for tampering with a body again to run consecutively and be followed by five years parole.

In total he sentenced Frazee to life without parole, plus 156 years.

Frazee's mistress Krystal Lee Kenney took investigators to a ranch in Florissant, Colorado, and showed them where she says he burned Berreth's body in a black tote.

The photos show scorched earth and what appears to be melted plastic. A video shows Lee at the ranch with investigators.

During Frazee's murder trial, expert witness Jerry Means, Investigations Chief at Adams County Fire and Rescue Denver testified a burn site found on the ranch bore the tell-tale signs of a body having been placed in a plastic tote and burned to the point of consumption.

The soil was fused together in a way that could only have been caused by burning plastic, he said. And the oily stain was consistent with human body oil.

Frazee's mistress Krystal Lee Kenney (pictured) took investigators to a ranch in Florissant, Colorado, and showed them where she says he burned Berreth's body in a black tote

This disturbing image was snapped on a ranch in Florissant, Colorado. Frazee's mistress Krystal Lee Kenney took investigators to the ranch and showed them where she says he burned Berreth's body. The photos show scorched earth and what appears to be melted plastic

Investigators are seen working at the site of the burn scar in the earth at the ranch

The jury was also shown an image of discolored hay at a ranch in Fremont County where Lee says the tote containing Berreth's body bad been placed before Frazee burned the body

Questioned by prosecutor Dan Mays, Means explained: 'It is very common for [fat on] the body to somewhat liquify, just like cooking a steak. It liquifies and it drips down on a concentrated level.'

Asked if there was a possibility that the oil observed on the ground could have been motor oil, Means conceded that it could have been, or it could have been a mixture of human oil and motor oil.

During the trial, the jury was also shown an image of discolored hay at a ranch in Fremont County where Lee says the tote containing Berreth's body had been placed before Frazee burned the body, according to 9News.

A video of the moment Lee showed police how she had mopped up the blood of his dead fiancee also emerged.

After beating Berreth to death with a baseball bat, he summoned Lee to Berreth's home to help him 'clean up a mess', she said.

In the footage, law enforcement agents can be heard asking Lee: 'With this broom, can you point to the area where you saw and cleaned blood up on the wall?'

Lee's voice quivered as she pointed to spots on the by-then clean wall (pictured)

In the video obtained by 48 Hours and shared with CBS This Morning Lee is seen walking officers through spots on the walls where there was blood spatter when she arrived.

Lee cut a deal with prosecutors and will serve up to three years in prison after pleading guilty to evidence tampering

In the footage, law enforcement agents can be heard asking her: 'With this broom, can you point to the area where you saw and cleaned blood up on the wall?

'And just hold it there so we can get a picture of that.'

Lee's voice quivered as she pointed to spots on the by-then clean wall.

'All, it was um, the spray was here all the way,' she said. 'I had to clean up underneath here and it was all down here and um, I know that I didn't get.. um... there.

'I don't know that I got some of it here... I didn't move the chairs to get it.'

She mopped it up from top to bottom, she said, leaving a small amount of blood in the hope that it would lead to him being caught.

Lee was given a plea deal for her cooperation and is serving three years behind bars for witness tampering.