She is preparing to welcome her first child with husband Lance 'Buddy' Franklin early next year.

And on Friday, Jesinta Franklin (née Campbell) showed off her growing baby bump in a lovely white dress before catching a flight at Sydney Airport.

The 28-year-old model looked radiant in the floaty cotton number, which featured a dainty tie at the waist and elbow-length sleeves to keep the expectant mother cool during her plane journey.

Stunning! On Friday, heavily pregnant Jesinta Franklin (née Campbell, pictured) was positively glowing as she dressed her growing baby bump in a white dress at Sydney Airport

Jesinta teamed her look with both a Louis Vuitton and a Celine bag - with similar designs retailing at $2040 and $3250 respectively - and a pair of Christian Dior flat mules.

She twisted her hair into a slicked back bun for the occasion, and shielded her face from view in a pair of stylish oversized sunglasses.

It's believed the model is heading to the Gold Coast to join her family for the Christmas period.

Sheer elegance! The 28-year-old model looked radiant in the floaty cotton number, which featured a dainty tie at the waist and elbow-length sleeves to keep the expectant mother cool during her plane journey

She loves a label! Jesinta teamed her look with a Louis Vuitton and a Celine bag - with similar designs retailing at $2040 and $3250 respectively - and a pair of Christian Dior flat mules

She announced that she was expecting her first child with Sydney Swans star Lance in August.

At the Melbourne Cup last month, Jesinta spoke to Daily Mail Australia about her pregnancy and said she was finally feeling better after a difficult first trimester.

'I feel great,' Jesinta said at the time. 'I think it's quite common for a lot of women to feel terrible in the first trimester, but I feel really good and feel really healthy.'

The footy WAG added that she is 'trying to keep as fit as possible' and is doing Pilates throughout her pregnancy.

Doing well: At the Melbourne Cup last month, Jesinta spoke to Daily Mail Australia about her pregnancy and said she was finally feeling better after a difficult first trimester

Jesinta also revealed that she hasn't had any cravings yet, but now is eating more as she is finding herself 'a little hungry' these days.

'I obviously feel a little more hungry, you have a life growing inside of you,' Jesinta said, adding that she and Buddy have not yet decided on a name for their child.

She previously revealed that they know the sex of the baby but are keeping it private.