With Christmas just around the corner, reissues and box sets make for perfect last minute presents. ADRIAN THRILLS rounds up the best…

Rod Stewart is ending 2019 on a roll. The former mod and now knight of the realm, 74, last week became the oldest male solo singer to top the charts when his orchestral album You’re In My Heart reached No1.

Tonight sees him bring the curtain down on a UK tour. For avid devotees, there’s also a chance to dip into the highs — and lows — of his back catalogue on The Studio Albums , a 14-CD box set (£45) which focuses on the years between 1975’s Atlantic Crossing and 2001’s Human.

The era, which coincided with Rod’s move from London to Los Angeles, began brightly. Atlantic Crossing yielded the majestic Sailing and I Don’t Want To Talk About It, while the following year’s Night On The Town contained Tonight’s The Night and one of Rod’s finest songwriting moments in The Killing Of Georgie.

Rod Stewart, pictured at the O2 arena in London earlier this week has a 14-CD box set coming out for Christmas concentrating on his work between 1975 and 2001

Another single, Young Turks, from 1981’s Tonight I’m Yours, pioneered a blend of electronica and Americana that still sounds fresh today.

Standards slipped on the bland Body Wishes before 1991’s Vagabond Heart signalled a return to form.

Rating:

With Rami Malek winning an Oscar for his portrayal of Freddie Mercury in Bohemian Rhapsody, and Brian May and Roger Taylor about to tour again with new frontman Adam Lambert, interest in Queen is also high.

A new box set, Never Boring (Universal), concentrates on Mercury’s short-lived solo career. Available in a three-CD set with an additional DVD of video footage (£76), it tracks the singer’s move away from rock to disco, reggae and classical crossover — ‘the territories I couldn’t really explore within Queen.’

Freddie made only two solo albums before his death in 1991 and both are revisited in full here. Newly remixed, his 1985 solo debut Mr Bad Guy leant heavily on synths and contained the excellent I Was Born To Love You, later reworked by Queen.

Its baroque sequel, Barcelona, was made with operatic soprano Montserrat Caballé, while the box set’s final piece features singles including Mercury’s melodramatic cover of The Platters’ Great Pretender.

All three discs are also out individually on CD (£11) and vinyl (£19).

Rating:

Rightly hailed as one of rock’s greatest moments beside Sgt. Pepper and Pet Sounds, The Band’s self-titled second album (Capitol) sounded unlike anything else in North American music when it arrived 50 years ago.

Originally released the same week as The Beatles’ Abbey Road — and sometimes called The Brown Album because of its sepia sleeve — it was rustic, earthy and devoid of flashy solos at a time when rock was growing more complex and psychedelic. Re-packaged here on two CDs (£16.32), vinyl (£24.60) and a box set (£96), it stands up well.

The Canadian-American quintet, whose songs would now fall under the heartland rock banner, enhanced their country, blues and soul arrangements with mandolin, fiddle, guitar and keyboards as they delivered such memorable songs as The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down and Rag Mama Rag.

The bonus tracks are worthwhile, too, with out-takes complemented by the group’s Woodstock show — a set which finished not with a flower-power flourish but a soulful cover of The Four Tops’ Loving You Is Sweeter Than Ever.

Rating:

Like The Band, who were once his backing group, Bob Dylan was also out of step with trends as the Sixties drew to a close.

Seeking to distance himself from the counterculture and his role as its chief protest singer, he worked with country musicians in Nashville and stripped his music back to the bare bones. That era is revisited on Travelin’ Thru (Legacy), the latest chapter in Dylan’s ongoing bootleg series and one of his most revealing archive releases yet.

Bob Dylan, pictured here with Johnny Cash has released the latest chapter in his bootleg series with out-takes from John Wesley Harding, Nashville Skyline and Self Portrait albums

Out as a triple CD (£19) and on triple vinyl (£40), the package contains out-takes from the John Wesley Harding, Nashville Skyline and Self Portrait albums.

New versions of All Along The Watchtower and Lay Lady Lay are of passing interest, but the real nuggets come with previously unheard duets with country legend Johnny Cash.

With Dylan singing surprisingly sweetly, he dovetails brilliantly with The Man In Black on the rockabilly tune Big River and Wanted Man. The pair can’t help laughing out loud on the latter, clearly loving every minute.

Rating:

The Clash, pictured in September 1978 in New York supplied punk's high water mark with London's Calling. A double album in vinyl has been released for Christmas

Having defined punk’s three-chord fury with their 1977 debut, The Clash supplied the genre’s high water mark two years later with London Calling (Columbia). A double album now out again on vinyl (£27.50) and as a deluxe box set (£40), it combined so many contrasting styles that it wasn’t really a punk record at all.

Rudie Can’t Fail employed joyous reggae horns. Brand New Cadillac touched on vintage rock and roll.

Also worth catching is the London Calling exhibition, a showcase of items from the archives, which runs at the Museum Of London until April 19.

Rating:

Simple Minds also emerged from punk. But, like The Clash, they tired of its limitations and went on to explore angular art-rock and electronic dance.

Alongside their Celtic peers U2, the Glaswegians also pioneered a strand of booming, atmospheric rock that became big in the Eighties, and it is rousing songs like Glittering Prize, Promised You A Miracle and Don’t You (Forget About Me) that are the cornerstones of 40 (Universal)). A collection tracing the band’s history over four decades, it’s out as a single CD (£6.86), triple CD (£17.76) and vinyl LP (£23).

Rating:

Having become stars with 1992’s Automatic For The People, R.E.M. took a step back with 1994’s Monster (Craft). Shunning the intricate melodies of Everybody Hurts, they retreated to their college-rock roots on brash songs more suited to the live arena. What’s The Frequency, Kenneth? was all distorted guitars. Sonic Youth’s Thurston Moore played on the song Bang And Blame.

Repackaged on CD (£18.21), single vinyl (£18), double vinyl (£24) and six-disc box (£59), the album has now been improved, with original producer Scott Litt adding a dynamic new mix.

Rating:

The Now brand’s ongoing 100 Hits series reaches the decade of Britpop, girl power and combat trousers on Now 100 Hits Forgotten 90s (Sony), a five-CD box (£7) that unearths lost gems such as PM Dawn’s Spandau-sampling classic Set Adrift On Memory Bliss.

Rating:

It is, inevitably, patchy. With nothing from Blur, Oasis or the Spice Girls, it’s left to Britney Spears, Destiny’s Child and All Saints to provide pop highlights and B*Witched and Aqua to supply the songs best consigned to oblivion.