Australian visas are being advertised to rich foreigners in a move slammed by critics as 'immoral'.

The photo of a Chinese billboard in Australia promoting the Significant Investor Visa was uploaded to website Reddit on Thursday night, which has been criticised as 'selling residency'.

Wealthy elites can get a four-year stay in Australia on a 188 provisional visa in return for an investment of $5 million in approved instruments such as government bonds, funds, projects and companies approved by the Australian Government.

The photo of a Chinese language billboard in Australia promoting a $5 million investment visa prompted critics to slam the visa as 'selling residency' at a time when cities are under strain

Sydney and Melbourne have infrastructure congestion due to rapid migration growth over the past two decades. Pictured are commuters waiting on a crowded Sydney train platform

They can then upgrade to a permanent 888 visa.

The cost starts at $7880, the Home Affairs department says on its website.

The website advertised by the billboard has a 24-hour hotline icon on its banner.

'The 188C visa has no upper age requirement and no business background requirements,' the website says, according to Google Translate.

Wealthy visa figures * Significant Investor Visa (SIV) allows residency in return for a $5 million investment in Government-approved bonds, projects, companies and funds * 85.4 percent of SIVs issued to Chinese nationals * Government denies the visas are 'for sale' saying strict standards apply * Visa program under review with an eye to promoting regional investment * 2264 SIVs issued from November 2012 to October 2019 bringing $11.3 billion into Government-approved investments * Number is dwarfed by more than 1.4 million foreign student visas granted since June 2015 * Controversial as Sydney and Melbourne are groaning under migration pressure * Sydney on water restrictions with each person using 183 litres of water/day * Migrants accounted for nearly two-thirds of Sydney's population increase in the last 20 years * Only 57 percent of Greater Sydney residents were born in Australia Sources: Sydney Water, Home Affairs, Australian Bureau of Statistics

'You only need to invest $5 million Australian dollars in bonds, funds, projects and companies approved by the Australian government to obtain a four-year long-stay visa.'

'You can easily apply for a 888 visa to permanent residence after you have lived for 160 days in four years.'

'As it does not require business or long-term residence in Australia, it is most suitable for elite rich people whose career focus is still in China, so it has become the most popular project for Chinese people.'

According to Home Affairs figures 2264 Significant Investor Visas have been issued from November 2012 to October 2019, bringing in $11.3 billion in approved investments.

Chinese people make up the majority of investor migrants with 85.4 percent of visas granted to Chinese applicants.

The number is dwarfed by foreign student visas, of which more than 1,400,000 have been granted since June 2015 according to Home Affairs department figures.

But it comes at a time when Australia's most populous capitals are straining under migration population growth pressures.

Sydney, now suffering under severe water restrictions, had a population increase of 800,000 people from 4.4 million in June 2008 to 5.2 million in June 2018, driven by migration, according to Australian Bureau of Statistics figures.

Each person now uses an average of 183 litres of water per day, according to Sydney Water with every new person putting additional strain on the resource.

In the past 20 years, migrants have made up nearly two-thirds of Sydney's population increase and half of all population growth in Melbourne and Perth.

According to the 2016 Census, only 57 percent of Greater Sydney residents were born in Australia and only 33 percent - or one third - had both parents born in Australia.

Kelvin Thomson, spokesman for the Sustainable Australia Party, said the government was unethically issuing visas at a time when Sydney and Melbourne are groaning under population pressures.

'The Significant Investor Visa sends the totally immoral message that Australian residency is for sale,' he told Daily Mail Australia on Friday.

'We can see from the bushfires and water restrictions that we need to adopt a much more sustainable approach to population.'

A spokesperson from the Department of Home Affairs said Australia's migration laws are robust.

'No-one can buy their way into Australia,' the spokesperson said.

'All Significant Investor Visa applicants are required to meet Australia's security, character, identity and health requirements. Further integrity measures include assessing an applicant's financial arrangements and history, including verifying fund sources with the Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC).'

The Federal Government is now reviewing the Business Innovation and Investment program which includes the Significant Investor Visa, the spokesperson said.

The review will focus on how to encourage investment into regional areas.

The spokesperson said the Government was trying to ease the strain on the big cities by reducing migration from 190,000 per year to 160,000 per year with 25,000 of those places for regional visas.

Sydney is on water restrictions but each new person needs an average of 183 litres of water per day, prompting critics to slam the significant investor visas as 'immoral'

But Mr Thomson's Sustainable Australia Party says this is not enough and that immigration needs to be cut from 160,000 per year back to the long-term average of 70,000 people per year.

Mr Thomson said the government has pushed a high-migration population growth agenda for economic reasons.

'We're addicted to growth,' Mr Thomson said.

'They set up growth as a key performance indicator and think it's good to grow all the time. Growing by adding people doesn't make the individual better off.'

The Significant Investor Visa is not the only wealthy gateway to Australia. The 162 provisional Investor Visa and 891 Investor Visa also allows residency in return for a $1.5 million designated investment for four years.

The Sustainable Australia Party advocates banning political donations from property developers which it suspects is behind the push to high-migration population growth.

'Property developer donations ... help persuade MPs, candidates and politicians that increasing Melbourne and Sydney's population by more than 120,000 per year is a good idea,' he said.

Daily Mail Australia has called and texted the number on the billboard and will update this story with any reply.



