A kindhearted winemaker has gifted 24,000 litres of pure spring water to drought-stricken farmers just in time for Christmas.

Sam Daw, the owner of Lavina Wines in McLaren Vale and the Sunshine Coast, made the selfless donation to Shane and Melissa Lee after learning of their plight in Broken Hill in the far west of New South Wales.

Mr Daw knew he was in a position to help, having shipped his wine products in bulk overseas for years.

'Why couldn't we ship 24,000 litres of water straight up there, just as we do with wine overseas?' he told Seven News.

Mr Daw filled a 20ft shipping container with water, sent it to the Lees property before unloading via a hose-system.

'You've delivered water to us that God hasn't,' Melissa said after the container made its 800km journey.

The family said they intend to share the water with their neighbours.

The winemaker said the government needs to do more to help struggling farmers, as he can't do it all by himself.

The first delivery of water was destined for the Dalmuir Station (pictured) in Broken Hill, New South Wales - where there hasn't been significant rainfall for the past four years

'Imagine not having seen rain in four years,' he wrote on the True Blue Water Facebook page.

'Imagine your kids playing outside in red dirt and not being able to feel the grass under their feet.

'Imagine having to rely on shipments of bottled water as your only source of drinking water.

Drought conditions have hit regional New South Wales hard, with areas three hours north of Broken Hill (pictured) not having seen rain for years

'Imagine having to shower in bore water so salinated you can't feel clean.'

Mr Daw financed the delivery with the support of friends.

He has since established a not-for-profit initiative and has already raised more than $8,000 which will help fund the next shipment for a lucky farmer.

Shane Lee was ecstatic to receive 20,000 litres of water from South Australian wine-maker Sam Daw through his not-for-profit organisation 'True Blue Water'