Rak Su star Myles Stephenson has taken a swipe at X Factor boss Simon Cowell and suggested he 'didn't try hard enough' with his boy band.

The I'm A Celebrity contestant, 28, liked a tweet hitting out at the music mogul, hinting that he felt the band had been let down by Simon's efforts to promote them.

Myles shot to fame as one quarter of the boy band alongside fellow members Ashley Fongho, Jamaal Shurland and Mustafa Rahimtull when they won the show in 2017.

Hitting out: Rak Su star Myles Stephenson has taken a swipe at X Factor boss Simon Cowell and suggested he 'didn't try hard enough' with his boy band

Myles recently won public favour with his down-to-earth attitude during his stint on this year's series of I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!

However it seems he isn't happy about the state of his music career, judging by the liked tweet, which read: 'Simon Cowell should have tried harder with Rak-Su to be honest. They deserved to be much bigger than they are.'

'Great vocals and original material which felt fresh, new and current.'

Wow! The I'm A Celebrity contestant, 28, liked a tweet hitting out at the music mogul, hinting that he felt the band had been let down by Simon's efforts to promote them

He also liked a response to the message from his bandmate Ashley, who wrote: 'Thank you mate!! We're good though, independent, touring and actually enjoying the freedom'.

Rak Su were crowned champions of their series of X Factor, after being coached by Simon and wowing with their original song I'm Feeling You during the finale.

Elsewhere, Myles recently lifted the lid on what really went down between him and Jacqueline Jossa when she quizzed him about her husband Dan Osborne's alleged fling with Myles' ex Gabby Allen.

Awks! However it seems he isn't happy about the state of his music career, judging by the liked tweet, which read: 'Simon Cowell should have tried harder with Rak-Su to be honest. They deserved to be much bigger than they are'

Speaking exclusively to MailOnline, Myles recounted what he told Jacqueline, 27, during THAT unaired conversation in the jungle on I'm A Celeb, as well as detailing what was said during his chat with Dan, following his jungle exit.

Myles explained that Jacqueline had repeatedly attempted to get the full story out of him, begging him to tell her what he knew about the alleged affair, before he finally caved.

He said: 'She [Jacqueline] tried to ask me on air [about Dan and Gabby], we were in the main camp, and I said: "Look, this isn't the time to talk about this. Nobody needs to know about this.'

Drama: Speaking exclusively to MailOnline, Myles recounted what he told Jacqueline Jossa, 27, during THAT unaired conversation in the jungle

Happier times: Myles dated Gabby after rising to fame in boy band Rak Su

Close bond: 'Jacqueline was one of them, and we became like a family. She became a very close friend of mine, like a sister, like a little sister' admitted Myles

On November 22nd, the pair made their way to do a Bushtucker Trial together - Snake Hotel, and Jacqueline pressed him once again.

'So when we went to do a trial together, we were on our way there and she asked again, and started crying. She said: "Look, I need to know for my own sanity."

'And, when there's someone crying to your face and you've got the answers, well, you've potentially got information that they wanna know…

'So I said: "take your mic off." We took our mics off, and I explained what the messages said, what I read, word for word.

Since leaving the jungle Jacqueline has stood by Dan despite the allegations made by Myles, as well as further claims made by model Chloe Ayling, who suggested she had a threesome with their fellow CBB co-star Natalie Nunn and Dan.