There’s something incongruous about the sight of Robert De Niro sipping camomile tea in the drawing room of London’s poshest hotel, a stone’s throw from Buckingham Palace.

‘It’s nice,’ America’s greatest screen actor opined, surveying the joint. ‘A traditional English place.’

He seemed right at home at the Goring Hotel, a favourite of the Queen’s, which was full of mainly American men and their wives — none of whom appeared to recognise him. He was hiding in plain sight.

On screen, De Niro specialises in disappearing into roles, employing one of two methods. There’s the physical transformation, involving weight gain and prosthetics. Think heavyweight fighter Jake LaMotta in Martin Scorsese’s 1980 classic Raging Bull.

There’s something incongruous about the sight of Robert De Niro sipping camomile tea in the drawing room of London’s poshest hotel, a stone’s throw from Buckingham Palace. ‘It’s nice,’ America’s greatest screen actor opined, surveying the joint. ‘A traditional English place’

De Niro as Mob assassin Frank Sheeran, with co-star Al Pacino, in Martin Scorsese’s Netflix film The Irishman

And then there are the roles — compulsive gambler Johnny Boy in Scorsese’s 1973 Mean Streets, or wise guy James Conway in 1990’s Goodfellas (also directed by Scorsese) — where his features are unaltered but, somehow, he becomes the man he’s playing.

For the actor’s sublime portrait of Mob assassin Frank Sheeran in Scorsese’s Netflix film The Irishman — their ninth collaboration (by De Niro’s count) over some 48 years — something more was required.

The 76-year-old, two-time Oscar-winner played Sheeran from his late 20s through to his 80s. ‘I was happy we could play our characters older,’ he said, the ‘we’ referring to long-time acting pals Joe Pesci, Al Pacino and Harvey Keitel, who co-star.

To do that, the creative team used ‘this whole digital thing’, where visual effects artists removed his moles, wrinkles and liver spots to ‘de-age’ him.

‘They took a scene of me in Goodfellas, compared it, and did a de-ageing process,’ he said. His appearance was adjusted throughout to reflect the passage of time.

The 76-year-old, two-time Oscar-winner played Sheeran from his late 20s through to his 80s. ‘I was happy we could play our characters older,’ he said, the ‘we’ referring to long-time acting pals Joe Pesci (left, with De Niro in The Irishman), Al Pacino and Harvey Keitel, who co-star. To do that, the creative team used ‘this whole digital thing’, where visual effects artists removed his moles, wrinkles and liver spots to ‘de-age’ him

It does throw you for a moment. But the story, and De Niro’s portrayal, are so compelling that you go with it.

I mention a scene where Sheeran, maybe in his late 20s or early 30s, tosses a gun away and there’s a millisecond of hesitation — the movement of a much older man.

A warm smile begins to form on De Niro’s lips. ‘I was, you know, careful, because it could be slippery on those rocks,’ he said.

‘Some people noticed,’ he added. ‘You noticed.

‘I had a movement coach. If I was sitting here, slouched, he’d tell me to sit up straighter. He’d say: “You’re playing 39!” or whatever.

‘We had that reminder a lot, which is a good thing. Looking back, I would have been more aware of it myself. I didn’t feel old. I felt like the ages I was playing. But going downstairs, and on those rocks, you can’t hide it.’

On screen, De Niro specialises in disappearing into roles, employing one of two methods. There’s the physical transformation, involving weight gain and prosthetics. Think heavyweight fighter Jake LaMotta (left) in Martin Scorsese’s 1980 classic Raging Bull. And then there are the roles — compulsive gambler Johnny Boy in Scorsese’s 1973 Mean Streets, or wise guy James Conway in 1990’s Goodfellas (right, also directed by Scorsese) — where his features are unaltered but, somehow, he becomes the man he’s playing

So how old does he feel? ‘I feel OK,’ he said brightly.

‘I have an eight-year-old daughter,’ he told me — Helen Grace, youngest of his six children. ‘I took her for her birthday to a Ninja-themed place, and all the kids run up this thing, the buzzer goes off, and you slide down.’

He had a go himself, though he had to be careful when landing, because of his knee. ‘I thought I did quite well,’ he said, ‘but I didn’t career down like a 30-year-old.’

De Niro does indeed look trim. ‘I work out. I keep in shape. You have to, at my age. I want to stay spry,’ he said. Not least so he can keep up with Helen Grace.

‘She’s a lot of work,’ he laughed. ‘She’s all over the place, so I have to be fit to keep up with her.’

In The Irishman, we first see Frank Sheeran at the end of his life. He’s in a retirement home, sitting in a wheelchair, talking about how he used to ‘paint houses’ — a euphemism for carrying out assassinations for the Mob.

But the real poignancy comes when his daughter (a fine Anna Paquin) becomes estranged from her father because of his violent, vicious behaviour, some of which she witnessed as a child.

Over the decades, the actor has done comedies, thrillers and other film genres. But his life in pictures is mostly defined by the characters he’s played in the mobster milieu: everything from The Godfather Part II (pictured) to The Irishman. Movies that chart America’s underbelly and its corruption

De Niro said he couldn’t contemplate his own children shunning him. ‘No. I couldn’t imagine it if my kids didn’t speak to me,’ he said.

The Irishman was a long time in the making. De Niro reckons it took more than a decade to pull everything together, with Netflix coming in at the 11th hour to finance the project.

He says it’s unlikely he, Pesci, Pacino and Keitel will make another movie together. But he and Scorsese are a different matter.

‘I’ve been very lucky to work with Marty for all these years. Lucky, because you don’t often find working, creative relationships. They do happen, but they’re rare,’ he said.

The pair will work on their tenth picture together next year. It’s called Killers Of The Flower Moon, based on David Grann’s non-fiction book about the Osage native Americans in Oklahoma, who were granted land rights to parcels of land in the state that turned out to be rich in oil. ‘I play the bad guy who tried to take the oil and the money,’ De Niro said.

De Niro said he can’t get over the fact that so many Republicans, in both houses of Congress, are ‘totally loyal to Trump when they know he’s an idiot’. He called those politicians who cling closest to Trump ‘deplorables’

Over the decades, the actor has done comedies, thrillers and other film genres. But his life in pictures is mostly defined by the characters he’s played in the mobster milieu: everything from The Godfather Part II to The Irishman. Movies that chart America’s underbelly and its corruption.

The actor believes that corruption has reached the highest office in the land: Donald Trump’s White House.

De Niro said he can’t get over the fact that so many Republicans, in both houses of Congress, are ‘totally loyal to Trump when they know he’s an idiot’.

He called those politicians who cling closest to Trump ‘deplorables’.

As for Trump himself, there are no kind words. ‘He’s disgusting,’ he said, grimly. ‘I want to see him in jail.’

In fact, De Niro has been asked to portray Trump on screen — but unsurprisingly, he has steadfastly refused.

He’s a fan of Nancy Pelosi, the Democrats’ Speaker of the House of Representatives, but won’t be donning make-up to portray her!

Retirement’s out, too. ‘It’s not something I can see for the time being. I like to keep busy,’ he said.

The Cats movie got me thinking about The Mousetrap, now in its 68th year.

The Agatha Christie whodunnit is running at the St Martin’s Theatre, with a box office advance approaching £2 million — a whopping sum for a 550-seat house.

It’s on the tourist’s must-see list, along with Buckingham Palace and Les Miserables.

The Agatha Christie whodunnit The Mousetrap is running at the St Martin’s Theatre, with a box office advance approaching £2 million — a whopping sum for a 550-seat house

Fleet takes his Q from Bond's gadget genius

James Fleet will play the boffin who was the inspiration for Ian Fleming’s gadget genius Q in his James Bond novels.

The actor will portray Charles Fraser-Smith, a scientist and farmer tasked by British intelligence services with disguising useful implements as everyday items. Steel shoelaces that could be used as a garrotte, for instance.

He was also asked to come up with a container which could keep a corpse on ice until needed.

James Fleet (left) will play the boffin who was the inspiration for Ian Fleming’s gadget genius Q in his James Bond novels. The actor will portray Charles Fraser-Smith, a scientist and farmer tasked by British intelligence services with disguising useful implements as everyday items. Alex Jennings (right) also joined the cast this week of the film, in the role of spymaster John Masterman

Fleet, who recently appeared in TV series Unforgotten, is probably best known as Tom — the brother of Kristin Scott Thomas — in Four Weddings And A Funeral and Hugo in The Vicar Of Dibley

A film, based on Ben Macintyre’s bestselling book, is shooting now. Director John Madden has also cast Colin Firth (above) and Matthew Macfadyen

The body was required for Operation Mincemeat, an outrageous plan concocted by officials from Naval Intelligence, with assistance from Fleming (who worked with the unit), designed to mislead the German High Command about the impending Allied invasion of Sicily.

A film, based on Ben Macintyre’s bestselling book, is shooting now. Director John Madden has cast Colin Firth and Matthew Macfadyen as Commander Ewan Montagu and Flight Lieutenant Charles Cholmondeley, the MI5 operatives who oversaw the plot. Johnny Flynn will play Fleming and Ellie Haddington will be Cholmondeley’s mother Hilda Georgina.

Fleet, who recently appeared in TV series Unforgotten, is probably best known as Tom — the brother of Kristin Scott Thomas — in Four Weddings And A Funeral and Hugo in The Vicar Of Dibley.

Alex Jennings also joined the cast this week, in the role of spymaster John Masterman, who ran the Double Cross System, officially known as the Twenty Committee.

Novelist Ian Fleming on the beach near Goldeneye, his Jamaica home, in 1964

The next Andrew Lloyd Webber show to become a movie musical will be Sunset Boulevard.

The composer told me he’ll join Glenn Close, director Rob Ashford and studio chiefs at Paramount in February to plot their next move.

He said a screenwriter will be hired to add to the first draft by Tom MacRae, who wrote the story for Everybody’s Talking About Jamie.

Many critics have had their claws out for Tom Hooper’s Cats film, but it’s catnip for me — and it will be for cinemagoers who appreciate seeing kindness and inclusiveness, love T.S. Eliot, and understand his Old Possum’s Book Of Practical Cats.

Those poems underpin the stage show featuring Andrew Lloyd Webber’s score.

It’s amazing how many reviewers hadn’t realised Cats would feature actors playing felines. I mean, a cat is not a dog!

And yes, that’s a line from Eliot’s The Ad-Dressing Of Cats, which Judi Dench, as Old Deuteronomy, enunciates so beautifully.