A leading cosmetic chemist has shared the four ingredients every woman should have in her skincare regime - as well as how they will work wonders for your skin.

Terri Vinson, MD and cosmetic chemist from Synergie Skin, said even though the world is filled with beauty shelves, Reddit threads and Facebook groups talking about all sorts of lotions and potions, there are just four ingredients you really need.

To achieve glowing 'lit-from-within' skin, Terri recommends you stock up on products filled with Vitamin A, niacinamide (Vitamin B3), Vitamin C and zinc.

A leading cosmetic chemist has shared the four ingredients every woman should have in her skincare regime - as well as how they will work wonders for your skin (Terri Vinson pictured)

o achieve glowing 'lit-from-within' skin, Terri (pictured) recommends you stock up on products filled with Vitamin A, niacinamide (Vitamin B3), Vitamin C and zinc

Why do you need Vitamin A?

The first product you need to incorporate into your skincare regime is Vitamin A, which Terri said is a skin balancer that helps to restore the skin and smooth any wrinkles.

'I think of Vitamin A as the great thermostat of the skin,' Terri told Gritty Pretty.

'If your skin is in a state of flux, Vitamin A will even it out - whatever that means for you - whether it's collagen, whether it's oil, whether it's pigment or new cells.'

Vitamin A is an essential nutrient that supports skin, eye, and reproductive health, and immune function.

There are two types of Vitamin A: retinoids (preformed vitamin A) and carotenoids (proformed Vitamin A). Both types are converted to retinol by the liver.

Terri highlighted that Vitamin A is especially good for those in their later years, anyone with acne or psoriasis or anyone who has struggled with sun damage.

You can find it in a number of products, including Synergie Skin's A-Zinc Kit ($104) and La Roche-Posay's Redermic R Retinol Cream ($59.95).

You can get your hands on Vitamin C serums from Ole Henriksen (left), as well as Niacinimide or Vitamin B3 from The Ordinary (right)

Why do you need Niacinimide or Vitamin B3?

What are the four ingredients to include in your skincare? * Vitamin A * Niacinimide or Vitamin B3 * Vitamin C * Zinc oxide

The next ingredient on Terri's list is the ever-popular Niacinimide or Vitamin B3.

The skincare expert said this does 'pretty much everything' for the skin, including reinforcing the skin's protective layer - which protects it from UV damage, pollution and chemicals.

'It's like a raincoat for the skin,' Terri told the publication.

Niacinimide is a water-soluble vitamin that works with the natural substances in your skin to help visibly improve enlarged pores, uneven skin tone, fine lines and wrinkles, dullness, and a weakened surface.

You can find it in The Ordinary's Niacinimide ($9.90).

Why do you need Vitamin C?

Out of all of the ingredients, Terri said Vitamin C is the game-changer for your skin's health and what she calls the skin 'fortifier'.

The antioxidant properties of Vitamin C (ascorbic acid) and its role in collagen synthesis make it a vital molecule for skin health.

If you suffer from pigmentation, Terri said Vitamin C is especially useful for you.

It will also help to smooth out your overall skin tone and enhance collagen production, while getting rid of any dark spots on the skin.

Out of all of the ingredients, Terri (pictured) said Vitamin C is the game-changer for your skin's health and what she calls the 'fortifier'

Why do you need zinc oxide?

Lastly, Terri said every woman should have zinc in their skincare regime, as it has a number of benefits for the skin.

'It soothes like no other, works to calm inflammation and is hands down the best sun protector I could ever use in my lab,' she said.

This is because it blocks both types of the sun's powerful rays - UVA and UVB - without causing irritation.

Synergie Skin's ÜberZinc moisturiser offers broad spectrum UVA and UVB sun protection, and it still the most popular product Terri has created.