Tammin Sursok stunned in a red dress on Thursday as she celebrated becoming an American citizen.

Taking to Instagram, the South African-born Australian actress said how excited she was and shared some sweet snaps with her family from the ceremony.

'Today was a special day for me. I am an American citizen!' Tammin captioned her post.

'It was a special day for me!' Tammin Sursok stunned in a red dress on Thursday as she celebrated becoming an American citizen with her family

She said she would still be keeping her Australian citizenship and reflected on living in the US for over a decade.

The Pretty Little Liars star wrote: '14 years ago I came to this country with two suitcases and never left. Thank you for giving me these three treasures,' in reference to her husband and their two children.

She added: 'I can vote. We are off to have a Budweiser and some apple pie.' A Budweiser is an American style lager.

'I came to this country with two suitcases and never left!' She said she would still be keeping her Australian citizenship and reflected on living in the US for over a decade

It's official! 'I can vote. We are off to have a Budweiser and some apple pie,' she added

What a moment! She was supported on the day by her American filmmaker husband Sean McEwen, and their two daughters, Phoenix, five, and Lennon Bleu, 11 months. They are based in the US

Stepping out: After the ceremony, Tammin and Sean joined some friends for a celebratory meal

In the snaps, Tammin stuns in a red dress in front of an American flag.

She was supported on the day by her American filmmaker husband Sean McEwen, and their two daughters, Phoenix, five, and Lennon Bleu, 11 months. They are based in the US.

After the ceremony, Tammin and Sean joined some friends for a celebratory meal.

Tammin and Sean tied the knot in a dreamy Italian wedding back in 2011 after she moved to the U.S. in 2005.

It comes after fellow Australian actress Claire Holt announced she had become an American citizen last month.

The 31-year-old Vampire Diaries and The Originals star shared an image of herself online, holding her official certificate and a small American flag.

She captioned the image: 'Pretty special day for me today... I'm going to be a voter!'