The family of a Walking Dead stuntman who died after falling 25 feet from a balcony have been awarded $8.6million damages in a wrongful death lawsuit.

John Bernecker's family, including parents Susan and Hagen, sued production company Stalwart Films and the AMC network, accusing them of skimping on safety measures due to financial and scheduling concerns.

After a week-long trial a jury in Gwinnett County State court, Georgia, awarded them the money to help compensate for Mr Bernecker's loss.

The 33-year-old had missed the safety pad by eight feet as he fell in 2017, and the prosecution argued he may have been 'spooked' after season eight actor Austin Amelio caused him to grab onto the rail, which was not planned, after touching him.

The AMC network was not found to be negligent.

John Bernecker's family have won $8.6million at Gwinnett County State court, Georgia, after he fell 25 feet from a balcony to his death while filming the Walking Dead

Mr Bernecker grabbed a handrail on the balcony, left, during his fall after he was allegedly touched by one of the actors, which may have led to him landing eight-foot from the safety pad, right

In a statement, plaintiffs attorney Jeffrey Harris said the stuntman 'was a remarkably talented stunt professional who had an incredibly bright future in the film industry'.

'My sincere hope is this verdict sends a clear message regarding the need to both elevate and strictly adhere to industry safety standards every day, on every shoot, on every film set.

'John´s tragic and preventable death happened as a result of a series of safety-related failures.

'Learning from these failures will go a long way in making sure that similar tragedies do not happen to another performer or another family.'

AMC networks said in a statement that the 'Walking Dead' set is 'safe' and 'managed to exceed all industry standards'.

'There is no winning or losing in this situation, this was a terrible and tragic accident and our sympathies continue to go out to John Bernecker´s family and friends,' they said.

His family sued AMC Network and Stalwart Production for $10million, which they said was the approximate value of his life had he potentially got married and had children

The stuntman, who was filming for the Walking Dead, was described as 'remarkably talented' and a man who had 'an incredibly bright future' in court

Pictured above is a scene from the Walking Dead. Mr Bernecker died while filming part of the series

'The set of `The Walking Dead´ is safe and is managed to meet or exceed all industry standards and guidelines related to stunts and stunt safety.

'That has been the case across the production of 10 seasons and more than 150 episodes, and it continues to be the case today, notwithstanding this very sad and isolated accident.'

Jackson Dial, an attorney for the defendants, said they planned to appeal.

Mr Harris had argued in court that there was 'no planning' for what to do when the stunt was not carried out correctly.

As he tried to persuade the jury, he alleged the production failed 'to use a couple hundred bucks of cardboard, and their defense is it's his fault for not asking for more'.

It comes as stunts call for the Oscar awards to be boycotted until they are given their own category, that recognises the risks they take

Included on the pages of group Stand Up For Stunts are a plethora of photos showing various stunt actors, coordinators and allies holding signs that read: 'Oscars, add a stunt coordinator category!'

The Bernecker's had sought damages for the full value of John's life, including whether he would have got married and had children, which Mr Harris claimed amounted to $10million.

AMC lawyer David Dial told the court this week that the death was a 'horrific accident', and no one could have foreseen 'he was going to go under the balcony and miss the middle of the catcher pad'.

'No one, no experienced stunt person, had ever seen anything like this happen before,' he said on Tuesday.

It comes as stunt performers accused the Academy Awards of failing to recognize the risks they take, by not offering them an award category.

The Stand Up For Stunts movement has even called for a boycott of the Oscars until they are given recognition.

Best Stunts has been a proposed category since 1991, but has been rejected every year.

Stunt actors have been attempting to get the category since 1991, with it being rejected each year

A petition launched earlier this year in support of stunts also achieved almost 100,000 signatures.

Jazzy Ellis - a stunt woman based in Atlanta - stressed that every day she goes to work, she is put in life-threatening situations.

'I train hard everyday to go to set and be in charge of protecting the cast and crew,' she explained to the DailyMail.com. 'I've been injured many times. At least twice a year, I get hurt badly. I barely get recognition from the actresses I double.

'The least The Academy can do is show how important, necessary and dangerous our job is.'