RALEIGH, N.C. (AP) - North Carolina State coach Wes Moore beat his old team.

Elissa Cunane scored 17 points and No. 9 North Carolina State had a 23-0 second-quarter run in a 74-38 victory over Chattanooga on Thursday night.

Moore coached Chattanooga from 1998-2013, guiding the Mocs to nine NCAA Tournament berths. He led the Wolfpack to a 78-58 victory at Chattanooga last season, and this year it was his turn to host.

"I saw a lot of people who really mean a lot to me," Moore said. "UTC is a place I´ll always love, so I wish them the best."

Grace Hunter added 14 points for the Wolfpack (11-0) in their final nonconference game of the regular season.

N.C. State broke open a tie game with the 23-0 run, holding the Mocs (1-12) scoreless for more than eight minutes.

Erika Cassell ignited the spurt with a pair of 3-pointers, and Aislinn Konig followed with two 3-pointers of her own.

Jada Boyd had 11 points for N.C. State in its 36th consecutive home nonconference victory.

"I feel like we can play better than we´ve played the last couple of games, but there´s also a lot to be said for being 11-0," Moore said. "There are some men´s and women´s teams that have lost some games that you´re kind of taken aback by. For us to survive that and go into conference play unblemished, that´s what you ask for."

Bria Dial scored all 12 of her points in the first half for Chattanooga. The Mocs have lost 10 in a row.

Chattanooga shot 29%, going 7 of 25 from 3-point range.

BIG PICTURE

Chattanooga: The Mocs hung tough for 11 minutes. They just couldn´t score enough to keep up. Chattanooga entered the game as one of the nation´s lowest scoring teams, and its season-long offensive struggles continued. "If you don´t put the ball in the hole, you can´t win," Chattanooga coach Katie Burrows said. "We´ve got to score. That´s the bottom line."

N.C. State: The Wolfpack are off and running as they did last season when they had a program-best 21-0 start. They continue to show impressive balance, combining their typically stingy defense with Cunane´s post presence and a plethora of potent 3-point shooters.

FAMILIAR FOES

In addition to facing the school he coached for 15 seasons, Moore matched wits with one of his former players. Burrows played on four of Moore´s Chattanooga teams that reached the NCAA Tournament, and she later worked there for Moore as an assistant coach.

The coaches enjoyed a visit Thursday morning in which Moore showed Burrows around N.C. State´s campus. They embraced twice before tipoff and posed for a photograph along the sideline.

"He called me this morning to come pick me up," Burrows said. "He said, `What are you doing?´ I said, `I´m watching film, but I don´t know why. I know you like the back of my hand.´ "

STAR WATCH

Cunane was efficient in her brief outing, making 8 of 11 field goal attempts in 17 minutes. She grabbed seven rebounds, all in the first half, ending her streak of consecutive double-doubles at four. She rested during the final 15 minutes with the Wolfpack ahead comfortably.

HALF OF RUNS

N.C. State appeared to seize control in the first quarter with a 9-0 spurt, but Chattanooga answered with an 8-0 run to tie the game at 13. That led to N.C. State´s game-breaking 23-0 barrage, which Chattanooga followed by scoring the final four points of the first half.

UP NEXT

Chattanooga: Host Ohio on Dec. 29.

N.C. State: At Boston College on Dec. 29 in its Atlantic Coast Conference opener.