A major evangelical Christian magazine has called for Donald Trump’s removal from office, saying the President has ‘dumbed down the idea of morality’.

Christianity Today, which was founded by Rev. Billy Graham in 1956, shared the shock editorial one day after the Democratic-controlled House voted through two articles against Trump and made him the third president in history to be impeached.

Editor-in-chief Mark Galli aims his letter to those evangelical Christians who continue to support Trump ‘in spite of his blackened moral record.’

Galli acknowledges that Democrats appear to have led a years long crusade against Trump since the 2016 election, but he then implores readers to look at the facts laid bare in front of them.

Mark Galli: 'President Trump has abused his authority for personal gain and betrayed his constitutional oath. The impeachment hearings have illuminated the president’s moral deficiencies for all to see'

He wrote: ‘The facts in this instance are unambiguous: The president of the United States attempted to use his political power to coerce a foreign leader to harass and discredit one of the president’s political opponents.

‘That is not only a violation of the Constitution; more importantly, it is profoundly immoral.'

He continued: ‘We believe the impeachment hearings have made it absolutely clear, in a way the Mueller investigation did not, that President Trump has abused his authority for personal gain and betrayed his constitutional oath. The impeachment hearings have illuminated the president’s moral deficiencies for all to see.’

He then claims that many aren’t horrified by Trump’s actions are because he has receded the notion of morality in his administration.

‘He has hired and fired a number of people who are now convicted criminals. He himself has admitted to immoral actions in business and his relationship with women, about which he remains proud.’

Mark Galli (pictured) wrote an editorial in Christianity Today that called for Trump's removal from office based on the finding of the impeachment inquiry

‘His Twitter feed alone—with its habitual string of mischaracterizations, lies, and slanders—is a near perfect example of a human being who is morally lost and confused,’ he continued.

The editorial piece then implies that any victories Trump has gained are overshadowed by the ‘moral and political danger we face under a leader of such grossly immoral character.’

In an effort to draw parallels between Trump and past impeachments, Galli reminds readers of the moral stance Christianity Today and many evangelical Christians took against former President Bill Clinton, whom they said was ‘morally unable to lead.’

‘Unfortunately, the words that we applied to Mr. Clinton 20 years ago apply almost perfectly to our current president,’ Galli wrote.

Finally, Galli implores readers to remember that their actions will have lasting effects that will resound far beyond Trump’s time in office and will continue on after he has left.

Galli: 'Unfortunately, the words that we applied to Mr. Clinton 20 years ago apply almost perfectly to our current president'

‘Remember who you are and whom you serve. Consider how your justification of Mr. Trump influences your witness to your Lord and Savior,’ Galli implores.

‘To use an old cliché, it’s time to call a spade a spade, to say that no matter how many hands we win in this political poker game, we are playing with a stacked deck of gross immorality and ethical incompetence,’ he continues.

‘And just when we think it’s time to push all our chips to the center of the table, that’s when the whole game will come crashing down.’

This push back by Christianity Today is one of the most public condemnations of Trump by the evangelical media since they have continued to support him since his presidential campaign.

Christianity Today was founded more than six decades ago by Graham, a leader of the modern evangelical movement who counseled multiple past presidents on matters of faith.

Graham was an ordained Southern Baptist minister and considered one of the most influential evangelical figures in modern history.

Rev. Billy Graham’s son, Rev. Frankling Graham, has long been among Trump’s more ardent supporters.

Additionally, a survey conducted by the Pew Research Center that found 77 percent of white evangelical Protestants approved of the president’s job performance.

Billy Graham (pictured) was an ordained Southern Baptist minister and considered one of the most influential evangelical figures in modern history

Even with Trump’s stronghold on evangelical Christians, his presidency has caused a division among some worshipers.

Many have praised Trump for his Supreme Court justice choices in hopes that they will make anti-abortion rulings among other, more conservative, policy choices.

Others are admonished his comments and his behavior in much the same way that Galli has.

It seems that the latest impeachment vote and the upcoming Senate trial has become another contested debate.

Pictured: Christianity Today magazine cover for the December 2019 issue

On Wednesday, Trump was impeached by two articles impeachment, specifically abuse of power and obstruction of Congress.

While it was previously predicted that Trump would be impeached, it still fired up Republicans and conservative politicians who blasted Democrats for leading partisan biased charges.

Trump even slammed Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi with a blistering letter where he claimed she views, 'democracy as [her] enemy.'

Trump wrote a letter to Nancy Pelosi (center) before the House impeachment vote, saying she suffered from 'Trump Derangement Syndrome'

'Everyone, you included, knows what is really happening. Your chosen candidate lost the election in 2016, in an Electoral College landslide (306-227), and you and your party have never recovered from this defeat. You have developed a full-fledged case of what many in the media call Trump Derangement Syndrome and sadly, you will never get over it,' he wrote.

'Perhaps most insulting of all is your false display of solemnity. You apparently have so little respect for the American People that you expect them to believe that you are approaching this impeachment somberly, reservedly, and reluctantly. No intelligent person believes what you are saying.'

'You are making a mockery of impeachment and you are scarcely concealing your hatred of me, of the Republican Party, and tens of millions of patriotic Americans,' continued.

The impeachment saga began when the whistleblower revealed that Trump was allegedly withholding military aid money from Ukraine, a United States ally, in exchange for an investigation into former vice president Joe Biden.

Biden's current position as a presidential nominee has placed him as a direct political foe in the upcoming 2020 election.

Trump then accused Biden of using his political influence to have a Ukrainian prosecutor fired because the prosecutor was probing into his son, Hunter Biden's, energy company

Hunter was previously on the board of a Ukrainian energy company while his father was vice president.

Neither Trump nor others have provided any evidence for these claims.

Senior Legal Advisor for Trump, Jenna Ellis, blasted Christianity Today's editorial as 'shameful and constitutionally ignorant'

After Christianity Today's editorial was published, Senior Legal Advisor for Trump, Jenna Ellis, called out the magazine on Twitter as 'shameful and constitutionally ignorant.'

'Pious “Never Trumpers” who feel morally justified about this #impeachmentcircus are as morally reprehensible as Democrats. They too are basing their opinion not on the Constitution or the facts, but in a self-serving desire to be proven right about President Trump. WRONG,' she wrote.

She then assured that many evangelicals still support Trump.

'Many evangelicals support [President Donald Trump]. But regardless of whether or not one supports him, we should not let politics cloud our judgment of clear constitutional bounds. This impeachment is not based in law or fact, but in political partisanship & an attempt to overthrow govt.'

Ellis: 'They too are basing their opinion not on the Constitution or the facts, but in a self-serving desire to be proven right about President Trump. WRONG'

Ellis maintained that many evangelicals still support Trump as president and 'we should not let politics cloud our judgment of clear constitutional bounds'

Ellis later published an official response in the Washington Examiner, saying it was 'so devoid of any pretense of understanding the Constitution.'

'Galli is simply asserting a constitutional violation where there is none...It's just a bald assertion he thinks evangelical Christians should accept because in his version of the facts, "more importantly [than being unconstitutional], it's profoundly immoral".'

She doubled down on her tweets and said that Christianity Today is not an accurate representation of evangelicals.

'Christianity Today does not, in this instance, speak for most of us. Trump, for instance, is pro-life, appoints conservative judges, values liberty and freedom and self-governance, and acknowledges that our rights come from God our Creator, among many other values and virtues of our American tradition.'

'The publication does not speak for most evangelical Christians. It's time for them to step up and do better.'