This is the shocking moment a couple were pictured having sex at the back of a bus.

The over-amorous pair were spotted by stunned passers-by on the 135 bus in Prestwich, Manchester on Tuesday.

Gas engineer John Dolan was waiting in his van when he saw the woman straddling the man on the top deck.

After he 'noticed movement' he pulled out his phone to show his wife, who branded the video 'disgusting'.

He didn't plan on sharing the clip until he noticed the bus heading in the direction of a nearby secondary school, so he decided to shame the pair.

The post has since attracted more than 460,000 views - with social media users outraged by the reckless exhibitionists.

The over-amorous pair were spotted by stunned passers-by on the 135 bus in Prestwich, Manchester on Tuesday

Mr Dolan, from Manchester, said: 'It was mad - very strange. It's just wrong.

'It looked quite vigorous. They slowed down a bit when the bus stopped but were still at it, then carried on again as it pulled off.

'I can't imagine if an old lady got on the bus and saw them. She'd probably have a heart attack.

'I just hope they're a couple and not doing it on the sly because now they've gone viral.'

Mr Dolan had initially sniggered at the display, before realising the road had at least three schools on it.

As he sent the video to his wife, she also commented on how 'disgusting' the lovers were.

Mr Dolan said: 'There's a sandwich shop round the corner and I was waiting in the van for my mates to come out.

Gas engineer John Dolan was waiting in his van when he saw the woman straddling the man on the top deck

'The bus pulled in at the bus stop and I looked up from my phone because I saw movement and thought 'what's going on there?'

'There was another woman crossing the road at the time with a smirk on her face. She must have seen it because she looked about embarrassed.

'It's funny the bus driver didn't spot them in his mirror or on CCTV.

'There's kids on that road. There's a high school about a minute down the road and it was heading in that direction.

'I sent the video my wife and she said 'that's disgusting'. Obviously I'm a lad and I find it funny.'

Bus company Go North West has been contacted for comment.