Jenna Dewan is due with her second child in 2020 and couldn't be happier with partner, Steve Kazee.

Things appear to be going well for the 39-year-old, who was seen rocking her baby bump and doing some pre-holiday shopping in Bel-Air on Thursday afternoon.

But her ex-husband, Channing Tatum, can't say the same for himself as the Magic Mike star has reportedly called it quits with his pop singer girlfriend, Jessie J.

Happier than ever: Jenna Dewan stepped out for a mid-week shopping trip this afternoon in Bel Air following the news her ex-husband Channing Tatum split up with Jessie J

Baby bump: Jenna was all smiles shopping for clothes that flatter her ever growing baby bump

The stylish Step Up actress is no newbie when it comes to sporting figure flattering maternity wear and isn't willing to give up her commitment to glamour during round two of pregnancy.

Dewan rocked a mauve-toned, high-necked top that flowed effortlessly over her baby bump, while shopping for even more cute clothes to add to her closet this afternoon.

Jenna styled the plain top with a pair of mid-wash denim and gold, strappy heels.

She flashed a wide smile to shutterbugs through the window of a Los Angeles-area boutique as she browsed the shop's clothing selection and sipped on a smoothie.

Stylish momma: Jenna styled mauve-toned top with a pair of mid-wash denim and gold, strappy heels

In April of 2018, things weren't so happy for Dewan as she announced the end of her nine-year marriage to Channing Tatum.

They co-parent their adorable daughter, Everly, who is now 6-years-old.

Over a year later, Dewan is now dating Steve Kazee, and the couple's first child together is due in 2020.

In September, Dewan and Kazee told People, 'We are beyond overjoyed and couldn’t be happier to be expanding our family!'

She has moved on: Meanwhile, his ex-wife Jenna Dewan is expecting a baby with her beau, theater actor Steve Kazee

Her ex: Dewan and Tatum split in April 2018 after nine years of marriage. They co-parent their daughter Everly, aged six; seen in 2015

Channing Tatum reportedly split up with his girlfriend Jessie J.

The pair called it quits recently, according to UsWeekly: 'Channing Tatum and Jessie J broke up about a month ago. They are still really close and still good friends.'

People added that there was not one main trigger for breaking up: 'There wasn’t any drama. They just decided to part ways.'

Channing, 39, first started dating the singer, 31, over a year ago.

The People source added: 'Channing and Jessie have different priorities and focuses that don’t really align. They had a fun relationship, but it just didn’t work out. Channing needs to be in LA a lot so he can spend time with Everly. Jessie prefers England.'

Done! Channing Tatum has split up with his girlfriend Jessie J. The two called it quits recently, according to UsWeekly. 'Channing Tatum and Jessie J broke up about a month ago. They are still really close and still good friends'

They seemed to click well: She was called a Jenna Dewan look-alike but it didn't seem to bother them; this is the last time they were photographed together

Her last Instagram post was from the Netherlands where she was all dolled up: 'Last show of the decade for me last night.

'To say I’m grateful to still do what I love is an understatement. When I think about what I have been through, what I have achieved and how you have all rocked with me in the past 10 years. Woof. Tears.'

And he was last seen in Australia on December 3 for a media call.

They were often seen together out in public and he regularly attended her concerts.

Last year he gushed about her on social media: 'This woman just poured her heart out on stage at the Royal Albert Hall. Whoever was there got to witness something special. Wow.'