Shoppers are more likely to crash during Christmas time due to heightened levels of stress, according to experts.

A combination of factors including heat, distractions and inexperienced drivers also contribute to crashes in the festive season.

Behavioural Economist for AAMI, Phil Slade, told Sunrise that Christmas stress can make the roads dangerous.

The news came as officials revealed which car parks in Australia saw the most accidents.

Experts have warned that stress is to blame for Christmas car park crashes across Australia (stock image)

Australia's worst shopping centre car parks in 2019 VIC: Chadstone Shopping Centre (258 crashes) QLD: Sunshine Plaza, Maroochydore (105 crashes) NSW: Westfield Chatswood (104 crashes) ACT: Westfield Belconnen (66 crashes) SA: Westfield Tea Tree Plaza (63 crashes) TAS: Brisbane St Mall (51 crashes) WA: Westfield Carousel (45 crashes)

Mr Slade explained that reputable shopping centres will see an influx of people at Christmas time and 'all sorts of weird behaviours' will be seen in the car parks.

He said that a primary cause of accidents are the mixture of people who are unfamiliar with the environment combined with more frustrated and assertive shoppers.

He also noted that stress can quickly cloud judgement and said: 'Our brains have a limited bucket of energy to put to any situation at any moment and when we're highly stressed or highly emotional, it...robs us of that emotional energy.'

Mr Slade noted that a number of factors work against shoppers to make rational decisions, including everyday stresses like heat, tired kids in the backseat and the pressure of finding a car spot.

'We actually get this thing called 'situational blindness', so that old adage of 'this bollard just jumped out of the middle of the road and I ran into it' actually is true,' Slade said.

He also shared his tips for helping shoppers to keep their car park cool during Christmastime.

Expert tips for handling Christmas car park stress Be prepared: Expect that you could be stuck in a traffic jam for up to 25 minutes Provide a distraction: Keep your kids occupied to avoid unnecessary stress Choose you time: Shopping centres are at their busiest between 10am-3pm so try to avoid going in that time and take advantage of extended shopping hours