She rose to fame as a star of Made In Chelsea.

And Georgia Toffolo was the centre of attention again on Thursday as she attended Piers Morgan's Christmas party in Kensington.

Georgia, 25, beamed as she arrived on her own at the star-studded bash in a floral midi dress which showed off her lean pins.

Star-studded: Georgia Toffolo, 25, was the centre of attention again on Thursday as she attended Piers Morgan's Christmas party in Kensington

Accessorising tastefully with a cream Gucci handbag, Georgia showed why she is a popular reality star.

Drawing attention to her naturally pretty features, the willowy blonde chose her deftly applied make-up from a natural colour palette.

Smiling brightly as she held her bag in front of her, Georgia's honey-hued tresses wee styled into a loose ponytail.

The star appeared to be without her rumoured boyfriend, shamed former banker George Cottrell.

Glowing: Georgia beamed as she arrived on her own at the star-studded bash in a floral midi dress which showed off her lean pins

The ex-Nigel Farage aide was jailed for eight months in the US over a drugs money laundering scandal.

George is known by the politician's advisers as 'Posh George' because his family are said to be worth £300 million.

The reality star is believed to have been dating the wealthy aristocrat, who labels himself the 'bad boy of Brexit', for some time after meeting at a social event.

Radiant: Accessorising tastefully with a cream Gucci handbag, Georgia showed why she is a popular reality star.

Happy to be here: Smiling brightly as she held her bag in front of her, Georgia's honey-hued tresses were styled into a loose ponytail

Georgia recently spoke to MailOnline about her love life, saying: 'I am going on dates with people, but there's no one particularly of interest.

'Last year was really intense and I kind of neglected my friends and family.

'And, I'm a young woman, I didn't really see anyone, so now if a hottie asks me out on a date, of course I'm gonna go. But, there's no one in particular who's caught my eye.'