Australians have been urged to avoid using electrical appliances during the current heat wave to avoid overloading the power supply system.

As temperature in Melbourne surged toward 44C on Friday, residents were being urged to take as much pressure off the electricity grid as possible.

'The experts assure us that we have sufficient energy supply for today,' Victorian Health Minister Jenny Mikakos told reporters.

Hanging out a load of washing in Victoria's scorching heat may seem ideal, but not to the state government who wants residents to turn off washing machines to prevent power outages. A woman is seen walking her dog in Melbourne on Thursday

People are seen on the beach at St Kilda during hot weather in Melbourne on Friday

'But it is sensible to not turn on your dishwasher and your washing machine and all your electrical appliances on days like today.'

Melbourne's temperature will hover about 44C, while Swan Hill and Mildura may reach 47C - three degrees above the December record.

The sky has been blanketed in smoke from New South Wales, which was reducing visibility to about 1 km in some places, the weather bureau said.

The fire danger rating is 'very high' to 'extreme' across all regions with a total fire ban.

There won't be any reprieve from the heat until early evening before cool air at midnight.

'The cool change is still on track and is still later than anyone would want,' Bureau of Meteorology senior meteorologist Keris Arndt said.

As temperature in the state's capital set to hit 44C on Friday, Victorians are being urged to take as much pressure off the electricity grid as possible

Melbourne's (pictured) temperature will hover about 44C, while Swan Hill and Mildura may reach 47C - three degrees above the December record

'We will slowly cool down with the sun going down but we won't have any cool air until about midnight.'

Nearly 500 firefighters are battling three uncontained fires in East Gippsland, the County Fire Authority says.

There are another 118 firefighters patrolling blazes at Somerton with a helicopter and dozer on hand, while more than 260 firefighters remain at the contained Tambo Crossing fire.

People are being urged to check on their neighbours, the elderly and expectant mothers in the extreme heat, and reminded not to leave children locked in cars on hot days.

'The temperature inside a car can double in just the space of a few minutes. If you leave a child or a pet in a car unattended, you will be putting their life at risk,' Ms Mikakos said.

There have been 1491 call outs to people trapped in cars with the bulk for children under the age of 13, including babies, since November 30, Ambulance Victoria data shows.

Homeless people in the CBD will be given free pool passes and movie tickets to help them stay cool, the City of Melbourne states.

Public Transport Victoria said extreme heat timetables will be in place on multiple V/Line services and Melbourne Yarra Trams has advised services will be altered on Friday.