Brie Larson took the plunge while guest-hosting Jimmy Kimmel Live! Wednesday.

The 30-year-old hit the stage in a sizzling dress with a neckline that fell to put her cleavage on display as she delivered her monologue.

Her gown exuded Old Hollywood glamour with glittering buttons slanting down the front and a beguilingly high thigh-slit up one side.

Glowing: Brie Larson took the plunge while guest-hosting Jimmy Kimmel Live! Wednesday

The outfit was mostly black and perfectly fitted to the Captain Marvel star's figure, with a dapper set of large silver cuffs to add an extra dash of personality.

While giving her opening monologue, Brie joked that she was disgruntled she had not been selected for a role in Cats.

The bit began with a misdirect in which she referred to 'the big story of the day' and 'important issues' that are 'dividing us like never before.'

Having built up to a bit about that day's House vote to impeach President Donald Trump, she revealed she was actually talking about Cats.

Limelight: The 30-year-old hit the stage in a sizzling dress with a neckline that fell to put her cleavage on display as she delivered her monologue

Details: Her gown exuded Old Hollywood glamour with glittering buttons slanting down the front and a beguilingly high thigh-slit up one side

Throwback glam: The outfit was mostly black and perfectly fitted to the Captain Marvel star's figure, with a dapper set of large silver cuffs to add an extra dash of personality.

Oversight: While giving her opening monologue Brie joked that she was disgruntled she had not been selected for a role in Cats

'This is really big, you know? This is the year we will finally get the chance to sit in a dark room with strangers and watch Sir Ian McKellen poop in a box,' she joked.

'I can just imagine some executive thought: "Cats - they're adorable, but you know what they're missing? Boobs. Weird cat-boobs."'

She went on: 'But the most important question is, how the hell am I not in this movie? I mean, they asked literally everyone else in Hollywood.'

Brie listed off: 'Taylor Swift, Idris Elba - Jason freakin' Derulo! I mean, I want in! I will do whatever it takes. I'll slurp milk from a bowl. I'll get stuck on top of a fridge. I'll put a dead bird in your slipper. I will have babies under your porch!'

Tricks: The bit began with a misdirect in which she referred to 'the big story of the day' and 'important issues' that are 'dividing us like never before'

She quipped: 'Look, we have 48 hours to get me in this movie and I'm not gonna rest until I'm in a damn leotard chasing a laser pointer at Dame Judi Dench!'

Her big episode included interviews with her Just Mercy co-star Jamie Foxx and 90 Day Fiance star Molly Hopkins.

Brie said of Molly: 'I cannot wait to talk to her! I have never been this excited about anything and I won an Oscar.'

Revealed: Having built up to a bit about that day's House vote to impeach President Donald Trump, she revealed she was actually talking about Cats