He stars as Rum Tum Tugger in Cats, which is set to premiere on the big screen on Friday.

And Jason Derulo is not pleased by the critics' poor opinions of the film version of the classic Andrew Lloyd Weber musical, based on T. S. Eliot's 1939 poetry book Old Possum's Book Of Practical Cats.

The 30-year-old singer was quick to defend his director Tom Hooper and fellow feline castmates when he spoke to TMZ in New York City on Thursday.

The man in black: Jason Derulo was seen leaving a studio in New York City on Thursday after his brave defense of Cats in which he co-stars as Rum Tum Tugger

'Reviews don't matter man, reviews don't matter,' he insisted.

'At the end of the day the people are going to see it and it's going to be a deportation to another dimension.

'It's an incredibly brave piece of art and it always has been that way. When it came out on Broadway [in 1982] it was the same thing. People were like, "What is this? It's something totally different."

Star power: 'Reviews don't matter man,' the 30-year-old insisted. 'At the end of the day the people are going to see it and it's going to be a deportation to another dimension'

'But any time that you defy what an art form is, any time you defy all rules you know there's gonna be some push back, obviously.

'It's an incredible piece of art done by some of the best people in the world. Tom Hooper's a class act and I don't think there's another director out there who's more classy than he is.'

Jason ended his staunch defense saying: 'I'm just excited for the people to actually see it because reviewers, what the hell do they know?

Feisty feline; Jason co-stars as Rum Tum Tugger in Cats, which is set to premiere on the big screen on Friday.

'Have they ever made a film in their lives?' as he walked off.

Aside from Jason, Cats' starry cast includes Taylor Swift as Bombalurina, Francesca Hayward as Victoria, Idris Elba as Macavity, Judi Dench as Old Deuteronomy, and Ian McKellen as Gus the theater cat.

Other furry stars are Rebel Wilson as Jennyanydits, James Corden as Bustopher Jones, Ray Winstone as Growltiger and Jennifer Hudson as Grizabella.

Hanging out: Idris Elba, 47, plays Macavity, Rebel Wilson, 39, plays Jennyanydits, and Jason, 30, plays Rum Tum Tugger at The World Premiere of Cats on Monday in New York City

Meanwhile, Jason didn't reply to questions about his CGI penis, which apparently is much smaller than the real thing.

He is also due to star as Isley Brothers frontman Ron Isley in Spinning Gold, a biopic about '70s record producer Neil Bogart, co-founder of Casablanca Records.

Directed and written by Bogart's son Timothy Scott Bogart, it is in post production and has yet to set a release date.