Not naming the person allegedly releasing the tape, the 46-year-old actress said that a third party informed her that the video may be released

Rose McGowan has shared that a person from her past is allegedly threatening to release a sex video through her.

Not naming the person allegedly releasing the tape, the 46-year-old actress said that a third party informed her that the video may be released.

'I find it deeply distasteful to discuss my personal life, but because I let the wrong person touch me, I’m in an icky situation,' McGowan said in a late Wednesday night Twitter thread.

She continued: 'Here’s the situation. a person from my past is (via a 3rd party) now allegedly threatening to release a sex video of me and say I enjoy recreational drugs.'

McGowan admitted to enjoying recreational drugs, adding that she is an adult in 'supposedly the "freest country in the world".'

'I find it deeply distasteful to discuss my personal life, but because I let the wrong person touch me, I’m in an icky situation,' McGowan said in a late Wednesday night Twitter thread

McGowan admitted to enjoying recreational drugs, adding that she is an adult in 'supposedly the "freest country in the world"'

'Here’s the breaking news: I have lived in Hollywood by myself since I was 15,' the actress announced. 'If you think I have not done drugs, well, that’s nuts.

McGowan shared that she had previously written in her autobiography that she had done LSD at an eighth grade dance.

McGowan shared that she had previously written in her autobiography that she had done LSD at an eighth grade dance

'I may live my life differently from most, I certainly get fucked with more than most, and maybe that’s the price for living a free and full life,' she said. 'I don’t know.'

'What I do know is that I’m being bullied and I think blackmailed. I have so many devils after me, it’s honestly hard to keep track of the s**t bags riding my tails.'

McGowan would later conclude 'So, here’s a heads up: if yet another stolen sex tape goes online, or if you hear (clutch those pearls!) that I enjoy recreational adult pursuits, know that it was never my intention to discuss my private life in this way. I’m done being bullied by f**kwits who should bow down and kiss my feet.'

The actress recently tweeted that she wanted Rain Dove removed from her Wikipedia page after the former lover admitted to selling incriminating texts from Asia Argento to TMZ.

'Does anyone out there know how to fix a Wikipedia entry?' McGowan asked. 'I broke up with my ex 6 months ago and they are still listed as my partner. I would like my name to be cleared of association.'

McGowan would later conclude 'So, here’s a heads up: if yet another stolen sex tape goes online, or if you hear (clutch those pearls!) that I enjoy recreational adult pursuits, know that it was never my intention to discuss my private life in this way'

'I’m done being bullied by f**kwits who should bow down and kiss my feet,' she said

McGowan became one of the faces of the #MeToo movement when she accused film director Harvey Weinstein of raping her.

The actress claims Weinstein raped her on the edge of his jaccuzzi at the 1997 Sundance film festival.

He vehemently denies it. She sued him and the pair settled the dispute in 1997 for $300,000. She never spoke of it publicly.

But when Weinstein became caught up in #MeToo allegations, McGowan went public with her claim and said that she would no longer be silenced by him.

Earlier this week she tweeted: 'I didn’t forget you, Harvey. My body didn’t forget you. I wish it could. I refused to sign an NDA after it happened because I knew I would come for you. And I did. This is about stopping a prolific rapist. You.'

There is no suggestion that Weinstein or Dove are the ones behind McGowan's latest claims that someone is threatening to release a sex video.