Labour's Clive Lewis has formally launched his leadership bid as he pledged to take the party even further to the Left.

The shadow Treasury minister insisted Labour lost the general election because it failed to convince voters it had made a decisive break with the Blair era.

He suggested that the 'legacy of the 2000s’ was more unpopular on the doorstep than Jeremy Corbyn and his eye-wateringly expensive policies.

Mr Lewis becomes the second Labour MP to declare their candidacy for the top job after shadow foreign secretary Emily Thornberry announced her decision to run earlier this week.

But there are a large number of other senior MPs who have signalled they intend to stand in the contest, including the frontrunner Rebecca Long-Bailey as well as Lisa Nandy and Sir Keir Starmer.

Whoever is chosen to replace Mr Corbyn faces a massive task to reverse Labour's fortunes after the party crashed to its worst set of election results since the 1930s, finishing with just 202 MPs.

Labour's shadow Treasury minister Clive Lewis has today launched a bid to become leader of the party claiming they had lost last week's election because they had not convinced voters it had made a decisive break with the Blair era

Launching his bid with a column in the The Guardian, Mr Lewis said Labour was 'at a fork in the road' after suffering 'its own Dunkirk' at the ballot box last week.

From soldiering to socialism: Former Army officer and increasingly fervent left-winger Like many of his leadership rivals, Clive Lewis comes from a working class background. He was raised by his single-parent father on a Northampton council estate and went on to become the first member of his family to go to university. After studying economics at the University of Bradford he became involved in student politics and was vice president of the National Union of Students. He later worked as a journalist, including for the BBC local television. At the same time he became a Territorial Army soldier and served a tour in Afghanistan in 2009 with 7 Rifles. Afterwards he spoke about how the time on the frontline had left him with depression. He was chosen to fight Norwich South after ex-minister Charles Clarke was defeated by the Lib Dems in 2010 and retook it for Labour in 2015. But he faced controversy ahead of that election when he suggested he would only lose if he was 'caught with my pants down behind a goat with Ed Miliband at the other end'. He was made a shadow energy minister and then, with his Armed Forces background - in short supply on the Labour benches - became shadow defence secretary in 2016. But he was removed from the post after a speech he was due to make, saying Labour would not alter its policy of retaining British nuclear weapons, was removed from a speech by Mr Corbyn's comms chief Seamas Milne. The following year the avid Remainer resigned as shadow business secretary in protest at Mr Corbyn's decision to back the triggering of Article 50 to quit the EU. Mr Lewis was forced to apologise in October 2017 after he was heavily criticised by colleagues for telling an activist at Labour conference to 'get on your knees b****'. Mr Lewis admitted at the time that his language had been 'offensive and unacceptable'. But in 2018 he yet again returned, as a Treasury minister working for hardline shadow chancellor John McDonnell.

He put boosting democracy within the Labour Party at the heart of his pitch as he defended Mr Corbyn's programme for government despite the fact it was roundly rejected by voters.

He said Labour is 'on the edge of a precipice' and that 'now is the time to dispel our fears and face up to reality'.

But he insisted one of the main reasons the party did not win power was because it does not give its members enough of a say in its direction.

He said: 'The truth is that despite his enormous achievements in inspiring a new generation of members, Jeremy Corbyn’s first promise as leader was never fulfilled.

'The party was never democratised on the scale or to the extent that members were led to expect – they were never empowered to campaign, select candidates or determine policy on the scale that was required. This must now change.'

He said that Mr Corbyn had delivered a 'clear break' from the New Labour era but the party was 'never able to communicate this to voters in our heartlands'.

'When trying to persuade them of our radicalism and sincerity, we often had the legacy of the 2000s thrown back in our faces,' he said.

Tony Blair is the only Labour leader to have won a general election in the last 45 years.

However, Mr Lewis did criticise Mr Corbyn over the party's 'indecisiveness' over Brexit as he said that 'such prevarication and lack of leadership' must never be repeated.

He also blamed the electoral system for the party's recent woes which he said 'favours the Conservatives'.

Mr Lewis said Labour had 'offered some of the right abstractions about promoting equality and opposing austerity' but it needed to go further and paint a 'rich and textured picture of life in the society that we proposed to build'.

Mr Lewis was forced to apologise in October 2017 after he was heavily criticised by colleagues for telling an activist at Labour conference to 'get on your knees b****'.

Mr Lewis admitted at the time that his language had been 'offensive and unacceptable'.

His announcement came as Sir Keir, the shadow Brexit secretary, further strengthened suspicions that he will run.

Mr Lewis claimed Labour voters were more concerned with legacy issues from the 2000s rather than Jeremy Corbyn's leadership

Labour leadership runners and riders Rebecca Long-Bailey: 7/4 Sir Keir Starmer: 5/2 Lisa Nandy: 4/1 Yvette Cooper: 10/1 Jess Phillips: 12/1 Clive Lewis: 20/1 Emily Thornberry: 20/1 Angela Rayner: 33/1 Source: Ladbrokes

He has said he is weighing up whether to throw his hat in the ring, but a new column written today for the Labour List website suggests he will almost certainly enter the race.

Sir Keir continued his push to endear himself to the pro-Corbyn Labour membership as he suggested the party's manifesto was broadly correct.

He claimed the election 'wasn't a fair fight' as he accused the Tories of telling 'outright lies'.

He also said Labour was crushed because of long-standing issues and decay rather than because of recent problems.

'The reasons for our defeat have deep roots and many of them go back decades,' he said.

Sir Keir, widely criticised by some in the party over the role he played in steering Labour towards its tortured neutral Brexit stance, backed Mr Corbyn's 'radicalism'.

He said: 'We must learn from our defeat and understand the complex reasons for it.

'But as we seek to learn the lessons, we must never let go of our values. In the last few years, our party reaffirmed its purpose and rediscovered its radicalism.'