Advertisement

Ten truckloads of volunteer firefighters spilled out onto the streets from the Tahmoor Fire Brigade headquarters on Friday morning after a long night of battling blazes.

Some of them collapsed on a small patch of grass and closed their eyes; their first chance to rest after a harrowing 24 hours fighting an inferno that claimed at least 20 houses and two of their own.

Many of the firefighters had travelled hours to be in Buxton, in the Southern Highlands south of Sydney, to help fight the blaze during Thursday's intense heat and strong winds.

Others had spent weeks fighting the devastating fires during the night and on weekends, only to return to their day jobs during the week.

While they were exhausted and devastated to have lost two of their 'brothers' overnight, crews told Daily Mail Australia they were overwhelmed by the generosity of the locals.

Brave volunteer firefighters who stayed up all night battling a blaze south of Sydney collapsed outside their headquarters

Many of the firefighters had travelled hours to be in Buxton, in the Southern Highlands south of Sydney, to help fight the blaze

Heroes: Some of the firefighters took a moment to relax, but many were preparing to head straight to their day jobs

All morning residents from the small town of Tahmoor arrived to drop off supplies to the station.

Some brought bottled water, while others delivered packaged snacks like chips and biscuits.

One local couple who lived nearby told Daily Mail Australia they'd been doing the rounds to fire stations all morning.

'We took some into Picton as well. These people just did such a great job last night, as they always do,' the woman said.

'We're just so sorry about what happened last night. They're working so hard and it was a tragedy.'

Minutes later, another young couple and their husky pulled up with a car full of supplies. The couple, who did not want to be named, said they were just doing their bit to help out.

'We're not the ones anybody should be looking at. They're the heroes. We're just doing what we can to help them,' the man said.

All morning residents from the small town of Tahmoor arrived to drop off supplies to the Tahmoor Volunteer Brigade HQ

Unthinkable tragedy: The night shift workers said they were devastated to hear of the tragic deaths of two firefighters

'We're not the ones anybody should be looking at. They're the heroes,' said a young couple (pictured) who arrived to drop off supplies

One of the volunteer firefighters, who had worked through the night and was helping to sift through supplies, said he was 'overwhelmed by the support'.

'Its been all morning, its just been unbelievable. They're all just doing what they can.

'Go have a look in the shed, all of that is from this morning. Just people dropping things off.

'There was no call out, these are just the locals coming in to help out.'

Meanwhile, other members of the night shift team - who were preparing to head to their day jobs - said they heard of the tragic deaths involving two firefighters while they were working.

They'd driven through the same stretch of road where the accident took place countless times over the past few days.

'They weren't part of us, they were part of a strike team,' one of the men said. 'We don't know the details, we just know two people passed away.

'Nobody wants to talk about it. We're all brothers, its sad.

'It could've happened to anyone. We've all been along that road lately.'

Andrew O'Dwyer (left) and Geoffrey Keaton (right) were killed when their truck rolled off the road after hitting a fallen tree last night at Buxton, south of Sydney

Mr Keaton and Mr O'Dwyer's were killed after their RFS truck (pictured) crashed into a fallen tree and rolled

Mr O'Dwyer (far left) stands in front of the truck he was riding in on Thursday night with his Horsley Park RFS colleagues and Australian Idol winner Shannon Noll

Volunteer firefighters and young fathers Andrew O'Dwyer, 36, and Geoffrey Keaton, 32, were killed when their truck rolled off the road after hitting a fallen tree last night at the Buxton fire.

Mr O'Dwyer, 36, and Mr Keaton, 32, have been remembered as heroes by their colleagues and Scott Morrison.

'They were bravely defending their communities with an unmatched spirit and a dedication that will forever set them apart amongst our most courageous Australians,' the Prime Minister said in a statement.

'Their sacrifice and service saving lives and saving properties will be forever remembered. I wish those injured all the best in their recovery.'

Just hours before his death Mr O'Dwyer - a father-of-three - shared a video of him and a colleague battling a blaze.

Mr Keaton had risen to the role of deputy captain after joining the Horsley Park RFS brigade in 2006.Both Mr O'Dwyer and Mr Keaton - who has a son - were less than a week out from Christmas with their families.