He is known as one of the best actors on earth with a Best Actor Oscar to prove it.

So it comes as no surprise that Leonardo DiCaprio has to take the necessary precautions to not get recognized.

The 45-year-old actor was seen attempting to go incognito while leaving dinner with 22-year-old girlfriend Camila Morrone and friends at Matsuhisa in Aspen, Colorado on Tuesday night.

Suddenly shy? Leonardo DiCaprio was seen attempting to go incognito while leaving dinner with 22-year-old girlfriend Camila Morrone and friends at Matsuhisa in Aspen, Colorado on Tuesday night

Squad: The couple were joined by their friends

Leo tried to keep a low-profile by wearing a black baseball cap lower on his head along with a matching coat as they left the high-end Japanese restaurant.

Camila bundled up in a long black puffer with a fur-lined hood.

Earlier in the day the couple were spotted enjoying a shopping trip with Leo's best friend Lukas Haas, 43.

Incognito mode: Leo tried to keep a low-profile by wearing a black baseball cap lower on his head along with a matching coat as they left the high-end Japanese restaurant

Freezing: It was so cold Leo could see his breath

Follow the leader: Leo's pals followed closely behind

The trio enjoyed hitting the luxury retailers including Chanel and Loro Piana on the fun outing together.

Despite hitting up the high-end stores, Leo attempted to keep a low profile as he pulled the hood from his hoodie up over his head as he sported a hat and pair of designer shades.

Keeping up with the incognito theme Leo donned all black including leather jacket trousers and lace-up boots.

Third wheel: Earlier in the day the couple were spotted enjoying a shopping trip with Leo's best friend Lukas Haas, 43

Sweet: Camila and Leo were arm-in-arm

Can you feel the heat? The two sipped on their hot coffees

Fashion first: Camila looked fashionable as always as she sported a long grey coat over khaki colored joggers along with white low-top sneakers

White Christmas: The couple seemed to enjoy the snow

Camila looked fashionable as always as she sported a long grey coat over khaki colored joggers along with white low-top sneakers.

She kept warm with a grey beanie with a long brown scarf.

The Mickey And The Bear star accessorized with a pair of large designer shades along with a small black Chanel bag.

Lap of luxury: The trio enjoyed hitting the luxury retailers including Chane

Keeping quiet: Despite hitting up the high-end stores, Leo attempted to keep a low profile as he pulled the hood from his hoodie up over his head as he sported a hat and pair of designer shades

Like what you see: He checked out some cool coats at Loro Piana

Shopping spree: It seemed like Camila was the only one who did the most serious shopping as she had bags from athletic apparel shops including Giro and Aspen Sports

In the details: She kept warm with a grey beanie with a long brown scarf

It seemed like Camila was the only one who did the most serious shopping as she had bags from athletic apparel shops including Giro and Aspen Sports.

The couple didn't seem to mind having a third wheel as they seemed to be in good spirits on the outing.

Earlier in the day the trio dined al fresco for lunch together before hitting the slopes.

The group seemed to have a blast while sharing the meal together on the patio of The White House Tavern.

Leo looked happy to be outside as he enjoyed a sandwich and the company of the ones he loves the most.

Friendly: The couple didn't seem to mind having a third wheel as they seemed to be in good spirits on the outing

Quite the look: The Mickey And The Bear star accessorized with a pair of large designer shades along with a small black Chanel bag

Out and about: It seemed like a fun-filled day

Meanwhile, Camila's glamorous appearance comes after she was forced to defend her 23-year age gap relationship with Leonardo DiCapri in an interview.

The actress spoke with The Los Angeles Times, where she was asked about her relationship with the the actor, 45, who have been dating since late 2017

'There's so many relationships in Hollywood — and in the history of the world — where people have large age gaps,' said Morrone.

'I just think anyone should be able to date who they want to date.'

She did concede that she understands why her relationship has garnered the interest of so many, adding, 'I probably would be curious about it too.'

Let's eat! Earlier in the day the trio dined al fresco for lunch together before hitting the slopes

Cozy: The group seemed to have a blast while sharing the meal together on the patio of The White House Tavern

Still, she hopes that as her career as an actress will continue to grow to a point where she isn't only mentioned as Leonardo DiCaprio's girlfriend.

'I think more and more now that people are seeing the film, I'm slowly getting an identity outside of that,' she said.

Morrone added that it's still 'frustrating' because she felt people should always have, 'an identity besides who you're dating.'

'I understand the association, but I'm confident that will continue to slip away and be less of a conversation,' Morrone added.

Friends forever: Leo looked happy to be outside as he enjoyed a sandwich and the company of the ones he loves the most