The son of a man who murdered his wife by drowning her in an Adelaide pond says he's relieved at the verdict but believes his mother's death was preventable.

Peter Rex Dansie, 70, was found guilty on Friday of killing his wife Helen, 67, by pushing her wheelchair into a pond at Veale Gardens, in the Adelaide parklands, in 2017.

After a trial by judge alone, Supreme Court Justice David Lovell found him guilty of the murder charge on Friday.

Dansie showed no emotion as Supreme Court Justice David Lovell delivered his verdict and revoked bail.

Outside the court, the couple's son, Grant Dansie, said justice had been served.

"Mum was a truly amazing person. She was funny, smart and she had a huge heart," he told reporters outside court.

"Her murder was a tragedy and we miss her every day.

"I'm glad that we've achieved justice."

Mr Dansie said his mother, who was left with a disability after a stroke, had been let down by public safeguards and her death was avoidable.

"My beautiful mother belonged to three vulnerable groups -- she had a disability, she was elderly, and she was a victim of domestic violence.

"Yet she managed to fall through all of the supposed safety nets - this isn't good enough."

In his published reasons, Justice Lovell found all four elements of murder had been proven beyond a reasonable doubt.

"To put it another way, I find that Mr Dansie, deliberately and with intent to kill Mrs Dansie, pushed her wheelchair, in which she was sitting, into the pond in the gardens.

"As a result of that action, Mrs Dansie drowned in the pond."

During his trial, the court heard Dansie told police he briefly climbed into the pond after she fell in, but got out to call triple zero.

He told an operator he tried to keep Mrs Dansie's head above water and manoeuvre her to the edge of the pond in an unsuccessful attempt to rescue her.

But prosecutors argued it was "no accident" that Mrs Dansie's wheelchair ended up in the pond, and that her husband's story was implausible.

Outside court, Dansie's sister Sue said she thought the verdict was an error.

"He's quite a different person but that doesn't mean he's guilty of murder," she said.

"There's a presumption that, because he's different, that must mean that he's up to something, but he's not what we would class as a normal person."

Ms Dansie said the case was lacking in evidence, and the verdict did not reflect what really happened.

"What evidence? It's circumstantial at best," she said.

Dansie will return to court in February for sentencing submissions.