Mauricio Pochettino is reportedly reluctant to commit to becoming Real Madrid manager, with the former Tottenham boss instead keen to wait for a potential offer from Manchester City.

The La Liga giants are believed to have targeted Pochettino to replace Zinedine Zidane, but the Argentine snubbed the club in the hope of a lucrative return to the Premier League.

The Sun report that Pochettino is interested in taking over at both champions City and rivals Manchester United.

Mauricio Pochettino reportedly snubbed Real Madrid to wait for an offer from Manchester City

The same publication states the prospect of leading United back to glory, with significantly larger resources than those afforded to him in London, as a major reason behind Pochettino's willingness to weigh up all his options.

Old Trafford chiefs class the 47-year-old as the front-runner to take over from Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, but the hierarchy at the Etihad could also swoop amid concerns that Guardiola is at risk of walking away.

The club's bid to retain their crown has faltered, with leaders Liverpool running rampant at the top of the league, and Mikel Arteta's imminent departure to take over at Arsenal has fuelled rumours that Guardiola may choose to leave.

There are mounting concerns that Pep Guardiola could choose to walk away from the Etihad

The enigmatic Spaniard has demanded sweeping changes across the board at the title challengers, with his sights firmly set on recruiting three new players and bolstering his coaching staff.

At least one centre back, a left back and perhaps even a forward are believed to be on the agenda for City's summer spending spree.

But despite the club continuing to plan for the immediate future with Guardiola at the helm, Sportsmail had reportedly earlier this month that the tactician's contract contains a break clause.

The agreement that Guardiola could walk away at the end of the current campaign was included in the most recent deal penned by the manager last year.

Pochettino, pictured in Argentina this month, hopes for a lucrative Premier League return

The clause ensures that, provided certain stipulations that satisfy the club are met, the former Barcelona and Bayern Munich coach could walk away and would not be in breach of his contract.

City officials are confident that this will not be the case, however, although Pochettino is thought to be aware that the Etihad hot seat may become available in the near future.

The Sun also believe that Jose Mourinho opted to turn down a similar offer to take the reins at the Bernabeu, which would have been worth around £12million, before succeeding Pochettino at Tottenham.