A 'swinger' who sexually abused an eight-year old girl alongside the victim's mother and stepfather has had his sentence cut from 21 to 17 years.

Tracy Coulter, 58, pleaded guilty earlier this year to abusing the Perth girl in group sessions involving up to four adults, including her guardians, who can not be named to protect the victim's identity.

He appealed the sentence as 'manifestly excessive' and the Court of Appeal partially upheld his case, cutting his term for one of the offences from 13 to nine years, while the other remained at eight years.

The District Court heard the offences were discovered after a memory card containing a video of some of the abuse was found in a short-term rental property, and handed to police.

The girl was sexually abused in group sessions with up to four adults including her mother and stepfather (stock image)

The recording showed the girl being abused 'simultaneously or in quick succession' by Coulter, her mother and her stepfather, the ABC reports.

Coulter was arrested in January 2018 and admitted committing the offences shown on the recording and to another charge in relation to three other incidents the girl reported to police in later interviews.

He was charged with sexual penetration of a child, making an indecent recording and persistent sexual conduct based on the girl's account.

The Court of Appeal cut his 13-year term for the abuse disclosed by the girl during police interviews to nine years but upheld the eight-year sentence for the offences on the recording.

The two terms will be served cumulatively and backdated to his arrest. He will be eligible for parole in 2033.

Police raid one of six properties (pictured) during Taskforce Mirzam into the child sexual abuse in March 2018

His original 21-year jail term was one of the longest prison sentences ever handed down in Western Australia for child sex abuse.

The court heard that adult offenders had all met through the 'swingers sex scene'- persons who engage in group sex or the swapping of sexual partners.

The mother and stepfather faced court on December 6 for 'depraved sexual abuse' between 2011 and 2015 of the girl and her younger brother.

The girl was aged between five and nine at the time, while her brother was between four and eight.

They will be sentenced in March 2020.