While he refused to confirm or deny it, Dave Hughes' awkward response when asked whether he'd be one of the stars appearing on I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here! spoke volumes.

The 49-year-old comedian was being interviewed on Studio 10 on Thursday, when he was caught off-guard by a sneaky question from one of the show's hosts, Joe Hildebrand.

'Speaking of overseas trips, Hughesy, when do you leave for South Africa?' the 43-year-old journalist prompted.

Scroll down for video

Welcome to the jungle: While he refused to confirm or deny his appearance, it seems Dave Hughes (pictured) may have accidentally let slip he'll be appearing on I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here! during an interview on Studio 10 on Thursday

The funnyman became visibly uncomfortable, before stuttering his way through a non-committal answer.

'Uh, for the ju... uh, no, I'm not, I'm not here to... confirm that I will be in the jungle. I'm not here to confirm that,' he laughed.

His telling response left the show's panel and audience in hysterics, with guest host Merrick Watts, 46, pointing out that he didn't 'deny it' either.

Surprise attack: Dave was caught off-guard by a sneaky question from one of the show's hosts, Joe Hildebrand (left). 'When do you leave for South Africa?' he asked

'I think... that's a strong maybe,' suggested Joe.

But despite being unable to wipe the huge smile from his face, Hughesy refused to be drawn into the conversation.

'No, again... I mean, as I've already discussed, I mean, if I was in the jungle, I would have to be away from my family for up to a month,' he continued.

Awkward! 'Uh, for the ju... uh, no, I'm not, I'm not here to... confirm that I will be in the jungle. I'm not here to confirm that,' Dave stammered when asked if he'd be appearing on I'm a Celebrity... Pictured: Hosts Julia Morris and Chris Brown

Keeping mum: 'If I was in the jungle, I would have to be away from my family for up to a month. I mean, what hell that would be. What hell that would be,' he joked

He added jokingly: 'I mean, what hell that would be. What hell that would be. Hmm.'

So far, the only celebrity to be announced to be heading into the jungle is celebrity chef Miguel Maestre, 40.

But it's been revealed he'll be joined by an artist, football player, 'lovable larrikin', 'pop culture guru', Australian comedian, TV presenter, TV 'mega star', DJ, 'blonde bombshell', footy 'legend' and a 'leading lady'.