Disgraced former NSW Labor minister Milton Orkopoulos has walked free from Long Bay jail after spending more than a decade behind bars for child sex offences.

Orkopoulos, 62, was released after 11-and-a-half years behind bars at 10am on Friday having been granted parole, despite being caught with drugs in jail earlier this year.

The former NSW Aboriginal affairs minister was jailed in 2008 after he was convicted of 30 offences including sexual intercourse with a boy between 10 and 18 years, and possessing child pornography.

He abused three male victims aged 15 to 20 after plying them with drugs and alcohol between 1995 and 2006.

Disgraced former NSW Labor minister Milton Orkopoulos (pictured) has walked free from Long Bay jail after more than a decade behind bars for child sex offences

Orkopoulos pictured left in 2007 during his NSW Supreme Court hearing and right, walking out of Long Bay jail after 11-and-a-half years behind bars

Wearing a navy suit and a crinkled blue shirt, the disgraced former politician walked out of the prison carrying several clear plastic bags containing his belongings.

In one was a packet of prescription drugs - used to treat OCD and depression - while shampoo and other miscellaneous items were also in hand.

After being led from the gates of the prison by an officer, he hugged a friend who came to collect him and then drove off.

During this time Orkopoulos was a councillor for Lake Macquarie City and later was elected to NSW parliament.

The State Parole Authority, chaired by Justice James Wood, granted him parole because it would enable him to access treatment and supervision he would not otherwise receive if he was released at the end of his sentence in October 2021.

'The only way in which he can have a supervised and assisted transition back into the community is via parole release,' Justice Wood said.

Wearing a navy suit and a crinkled blue shirt, the disgraced former politician was walked out of the prison by an officer while carrying his belongings in several clear plastic bags

After 11-and-a-half years behind bars, Orkopoulos was happy to see a friend who had come to collect him

Orkopoulos must abide by 11 strict parole conditions including that he wear an electronic ankle bracelet

'Refusal or deferral of parole is likely to increase any risk of institutionalisation.'

Orkopoulos must abide by 11 strict parole conditions including that he wear an electronic ankle bracelet, not contact his victims, not be in the company of or contact anyone on social media under 16 years.

He is also banned from the Newcastle and Lake Macquarie areas.

Orkopoulos incurred four institutional misconduct charges while in prison - two for failing drug tests in December 2015 and February 2019 and two for receiving prohibited goods from a visitor in 2009 and 2013.

He failed a drug test earlier this year after testing positive to buprenorphine, an opioid used in the treatment of heroin and methadone dependence.