He's the proud single father of one, but his family might soon be growing.

While chatting with Flipping Out's Jeff Lewis on SiriusXM Radio Andy’s Jeff Lewis Live show on Tuesday, the Watch What Happens Live Host revealed that he has 'at least one' embryo left to be used if he desires, and that he's 'thinking about' having another child.

Cohen, 51, made headlines in February when he introduced son Benjamin Allen, born via surrogate and now ten months old.

Happy papa: Andy Cohen revealed that he has 'at least one' embryo left to be used if he desires, and that he's 'thinking about' having another child

During the guest appearance, as reported by People Magazine, Lewis asked Cohen about whether there was another 'baby cooking right now.'

'I’m thinking about it,' was Andy's response, and when Jeff pressed further, asking about whether he had any more embryos left, Andy revealed a bit more.

'I have at least one,' was all he would say on the matter.

This isn't the first time Cohen has voiced a desire to grow his family — as early as June, he told Extra that 'I might consider having another [child] — I’m thinking about it.'

'I’m thinking about it': This isn't the first time Cohen has voiced a desire to grow his family — as early as June, he said that 'I might consider having another [child]'; seen here last week

Cohen, whose Bravo show WWHL was recently renewed through 2021, also mused to Lewis on the show about his dating prospects.

When asked whether or not he had a profile on Raya, the invite-only dating app that's used by celebrities and other VIPs, the famously down-to-earth media personality said no.

'I’d rather be on something more accessible, like Tinder, which I am on,' was his response.

Down to earth: Cohen also said he prefers accessible apps like Tinder to more exclusive platforms like Raya

'I want to date real people. I don’t want to date people where they had to do something to get on this app. I’d rather date people who I could meet anywhere,' he continued.

'[Raya users are] vetted I want to meet unvetted.'

Lewis, for his part, is the father of child via surrogate as well — three-year-old daughter Monroe Christine, whom he shares with ex Gage Edward.

Family man: Cohen, 51, made headlines in February of this year when he introduced son Benjamin Allen, born via surrogate and now ten months old

Jeff, 49, even told Andy that he has additional embryos on the docket as well: 'I have two. I have a boy and a girl.'

Lewis has been involved in a bitter custody battle with ex Edward, but is already thinking of tying the knot with his new beau, Scott Anderson — telling Andy that 'I got to put a ring on it.'

Lewis and Anderson have been dating for nine months.