Sydney Roosters veteran Mitchell Aubusson will wait until halfway through next season before deciding whether to call time on his NRL career.

Aubusson is preparing for his 14th season in first grade, having agreed to a one-year contract extension on the eve of this year's successful finals campaign.

However, after turning 32 five days before their grand final triumph over Canberra, Aubusson is unsure whether next year will be his last in the game.

"I've got a whole year ahead of me of some footy. I think halfway through the year I'll have a better understanding of where I'm at," Aubusson told AAP.

"I was excited to come in, see the guys' faces and get ready to train hard. While I've still got that and still want to become a better footy player, I'll keep going.

"It's a good sign for a guy in the twilight of my career."

Aubusson has been in rehabilitation since tearing his MCL attempting to prevent an Elliott Whitehead try early in the decider at ANZ Stadium.

He attempted to play on but lasted just 14 minutes into the game before watching the rest of the contest on the sidelines.

And while it certainly didn't take the gloss off of a third premiership, it did mean a serious recovery program during their recent celebratory trip to the United States.

"They tailored a bit of a plan for me there, which was good. I got out of the brace a week before we left, so I was pretty lucky in that regard," Aubusson said.

"I should be right to go for the World Club Challenge."

The versatile second-rower has been one of the club's most reliable servants, playing at least 17 games in all but one season since his debut in 2007.

In fact, Aubusson has played in a 199 of a possible 208 games since 2012, a longevity that has him set to break the club's all-time games record next year.

His 289 games is 13 behind record-holder Anthony Minichiello.

Aubusson said he was proud to have done played them all at the Roosters, alongside fellow one-club players and co-captains Jake Friend and Boyd Cordner.

He pointed to Jared Waerea-Hargreaves, Isaac Liu and Sio Siua Taukeiaho who also playing the bulk of their careers at Moore Park.

"Credit to the club and how they've kept a group of us together," Aubusson said.

"Earlier in my career, it was a high turnover I feel here, and it's hard to get those connections straightaway with guys that you play with.

"But the guys can walk in today and we would have that connection because we've been together for five-plus years."