She rose to fame alongside Michelle Heaton in Liberty X.

But Jessica Taylor was joined by her husband Kevin Pieterson on Thursday as the pair attended Piers Morgan's Christmas party at Scarsdale Tavern in Kensington.

The brunette, 39, wowed in stunning tartan trousers and a leather jacket as she smiled alongside former cricketer Kevin, 39, who donned a grey shirt and jeans.

Stylish: Former Liberty X star Jessica Taylor, 39, was joined by her husband Kevin Pieterson, 39, on Thursday as the pair attended Piers Morgan's Christmas party in Kensington

Jessica, who finished in second place on Strictly Come Dancing in 2005, wore a black vest under her jacket, which showed off her tanned complexion.

The star's brunette tresses were pulled back into a tight ponytail, while her make-up palette made her cheeks glow.

While Kevin did not look so keen to be out in the chilly temperatures, he still gave a half smile as he walked hand in hand with Jessica.

They were among a host of other sports stars and celebrities at the event, including Christine and Frank Lampard and Piers's Good Morning Britain hosts Susanna Reid and Kate Garraway.

Looking good: The brunette wowed in stunning tartan trousers and a leather jacket as she smiled alongside former cricketer Kevin who donned a grey shirt and jeans

Jessica and Kevin married in 2007 in a winter wonderland themed wedding, with Pietersen's former England team mate Darren Gough acting as best man.

The couple have two children together, Dylan, nine and Rosie, four.

The sportsman jetted 4,000 miles across the globe to be by Jessica's side for the Dylan's birth, and also ensured he was at home for Rosie's arrival.

Jessica found fame in 2001 when she formed Liberty X alongside Michelle Heaton, Kelli Young, Kevin Simm and Tony Lundon.

Star: Jessica, who finished in second place on Strictly Come Dancing in 2005, wore a black vest under her jacket, which showed off her tanned complexion

The group stayed together until 2007, winning two Brit awards and scoring seven Top 10 singles along the way.

The band reunited as a three-piece without Kevin and Tony in 2017 to perform as the star attraction at the Sunshine Radio Christmas lights switch on in Hereford.

Liberty X had previously reunited or for ITV show The Big Reunion in 2012, a decision that culminated in a gig at Hammersmith Apollo before they disbanded the following year.

Confirming their split in 2013, Michelle said: 'We talked about it, and we thought we've got so many children between us and quite a few things individually going on that we didn't want the pressure to be successful again.

One after the other: The star's brunette tresses were pulled back into a tight ponytail, while her make-up palette made her cheeks glow

It's cold out here: Kevin did not look so keen to be out in the chilly temperatures

'We just wanted to have fun. I know some of the other bands are planning to release new material but Liberty X, we are not planning to do that.

'We are just enjoying it for what it is.'

She added: We're going to enjoy the gigs, all the performing and have fun and not take it too seriously – and know at the end, we go back to being mums and dads to our children. That's how it's different.'