Arsenal forward Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang is itching to leave the Emirates and will consider a move away from north London in January, reports claim.

The Gabon striker is said to be unsettled at the club after an underwhelming season so far and is believed to be seeking an exit despite the impending arrival of Mikel Arteta.

Poor results this season saw Unai Emery axed, with former Arsenal star Freddie Ljungberg coming in as interim boss aiming to steady the ship. But the Swede has not been able to produce an upturn in form - with the team sitting in 10th place and seven points off the top four.

Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang is said to be unsettled at Arsenal and is looking for a way out

PIERRE-EMERICK AUBAMEYANG'S 19-20 Premier League Appearances: 17 Goals: 11 Europa League Appearances: 4 Goals: 2

And Aubameyang, despite leading the scoring charts for Arsenal with 13 goals, is tiring of life at the Emirates and has stalled in contract talks, according to the Mirror.

He has just 18 months left on his contract, and it won't be long before his value starts to plunge having just turned 30. Arsenal may therefore be forced to cash in on the star if he requests a transfer.

The former Dortmund forward has been linked with a big move to Real Madrid as he looks to take advantage of his prime goalscoring form.

Arteta faces a mammoth task to get the team back on form as well as calming the unrest ongoing in the dressing room, with several players also said to be considering their futures.

The Gunners captain has led the way with 13 league goals but could see his future elsewhere

Mikel Arteta will face plenty of problems when he is confirmed as Arsenal boss on Friday

Granit Xhaka was stripped of the captaincy in October after appearing to swear at Arsenal fans who booed him when he was substituted in a 2-2 draw against Crystal Palace, with Aubameyang taking over the armband.

Swiss star Xhaka is reportedly now seeking a way out with his relationship with the club's supporters at breaking point.

Alexandre Lacazette is another name that has been linked with an exit, while Mesut Ozil has been linked with a loan move to Fenerbache, and sources claim there are many more players who see their futures elsewhere.

In addition to Aubameyang, Alexandre Lacazette is also rumoured to be pondering a transfer

Former Gunners star Arteta is set to be announced as manager on Friday after three years as assistant to Pep Guardiola at Manchester City. One of his priorities after joining will be settling his squad down and convincing them to stay at the club.

The 37-year-old will sign a three-and-a-half year deal at the Emirates worth £5million a year, despite City being left furious with Arsenal's conduct in pursuing him.

He will meet his new players and staff on Friday but is not expected to be in charge against his former club Everton on Saturday.