It's been a busy year for The Kyle And Jackie O Show, during which the duo have dominated the radio ratings in 2019.

And it seems the show's controversial host, Kyle Sandilands is missing work, as he appeared on KIIS FM's 3PM Pick Up as a guest on Wednesday.

Speaking with the afternoon hosts Katie 'Monty' Dimond and Yumi Stynes, the shock jock briefly forgot their co-host Bec Judd's name, who was absent from the show, during a conversation about news headlines.

'Who's that girl?' KIIS FM host Kyle Sandilands appeared to briefly forgot his colleague Bec Judd's name during a conversation about news headlines on the 3PM Pick Up show on Wednesday

'Who's that other girl that's on it that compared herself to Meghan Markle?' the 48-year-old asked, before quickly remembering and saying: 'Bec'.

Moments later he accused Yumi of being an anti-vaxxer as she doesn't appear on the afternoon show every day.

'Yumi why don't you show up every day? Is this part of your anti-vaxxer behaviour?', Kyle asked.

'Why don't you show up every day?' Moments later he accused Yumi Stynes (pictured) of being an anti-vaxxer as she doesn't appear on the afternoon show every day. She snapped back telling him she's not an anti-vaxxer and has two other jobs, which includes working for the ABC and as an author

The mother-of-four snapped back telling him she's not an anti-vaxxer and has two other jobs, which includes working for the ABC and as an author.

Earlier this week, it appears Kyle to have taken his relationship with his rumoured new girlfriend Tegan Kynaston to the next level.

Just weeks after their relationship first made headlines, Kyle looks to have become very familiar with Tegan's mother Claire after spending the past few days holidaying with her in Cairns.

Bonding time: Earlier this week, it appears Kyle to have taken his relationship with his rumoured new girlfriend Tegan Kynaston (pictured) to the next level as they went on holidays with her mum Claire

Kyle and Tegan celebrated the blonde's 34th birthday during the trip, and flew out of Cairns Airport with Claire in tow.

This comes after the pair's reported public spat outside a pub in Sydney's eastern suburbs in the early hours of December 6.

Police were called to Beach Road in Bondi in Sydney's eastern suburbs at about 7am on Saturday morning after Kynaston allegedly caused damage to the shock jock's luxury Bentley.

Sandilands reportedly asked a bystander to call triple-zero, and when police arrived Kynaston, 33, allegedly then assaulted one of the officers.