Here is Boris Johnson's speech today in the House of Commons in full:

Mr Speaker, I beg to move that the Bill be read a second time and that we come together as a new Parliament, to break the deadlock and finally to get Brexit done. Now is the moment - as we leave the European Union - to reunite our country and allow the warmth and natural affection that we all share with our European neighbours - to find renewed expression in one great new national project of building a deep, special and democratically accountable partnership with those nations we are proud to call our closest friends.

Because this Bill, and this juncture in our national story, Mr Speaker must not be seen as a victory for one party or one faction over another. This is the time when we move on and discard the old labels of leave and remain in fact the very words seem tired to me as defunct as big enders and little enders or Montagues and Capulets at the end of the play now is the time to act together as one reinvigorated nation, one United Kingdom, filled with renewed confidence in our national destiny, and determined at last to take advantage of the opportunities that now lie before us.

And the whole purpose of our Withdrawal Agreement is to set this in motion and avoid any further delay. And in the hope that the honourable gentleman does not wish to have any further delay I will give way to him.

[Interjection]The bill contains provisions not to extend the transition phase two of Brexit doesn’t that endanger strengthening the hand of the European Union in those negotiations? Why has he boxed himself into a corner?

On the contrary Mr Speaker I think most people looking at the negotiation would agree that it strengthens our negotiating position. If we have learnt anything from the experience of the last three years it is that drift and dither means more acrimony, and anguish Mr Speaker and there would be nothing more dangerous for the new future that we want to build than allowing the permanent possibility of extending – I think I’m coming to the point that the right honourable members wish to discuss- the implementation period in a torture that came to resemble Lucy snatching away Charlie Brown’s football or Prometheus chained to the tartarean crag, his liver pecked out by an eagle and then growing back as all right honourable members in the House will recall – and then growing back only to be pecked out again in the cycle repeated forever.

This Bill learns the emphatic lesson of the last parliament unlike members opposite and rejects any further delay. It ensures that we depart from the EU on the 31st January – and at that point Brexit will be done. It will be over.

The sorry story of the last three and a half years will be at an end and we will be able to move forward Mr Speaker together. The Bill ensures that the implementation period must end on the 31st December next year – with no possibility of an extension.

And it paves the way for a new agreement on our future relationship with our European neighbours, based on an ambitious Free Trade Agreement, with no alignment on EU rules, but instead control of our own laws, and close and friendly relations.

Mr Speaker, this vision of the United Kingdom’s independence, a vision that inspires so many is now – if this new parliament allows – only hours from our grasp the oven is on so to speak It is set at gas mark 4 we can have it done by lunch time or late lunch.

And the new deal that I negotiated with our European friends will restore our great institutions to their rightful place as the supreme instruments of British self-governance. Once again this House will be the only assembly able to legislate for this United Kingdom.

British Courts will be the sole arbiters of those laws. And above them all, the sovereign British people masters of their own fate, controlling their own borders, laws, money and trade. And throughout our new immigration system, we will not only welcome those with talent but go out of our way to attract people of ability regardless of nationality or background.

And we are only able to do this because the freedoms offered by our European Union partners – by leaving the EU- allow us once again to control overall numbers and bear down on unskilled immigration with our new points-based system.

And if the honourable lady if she is against our new control of immigration I would like to hear her explain why.

[Interjection] The PM has spoken about welcoming people to these islands. Clause 37 of the Prime Minister’s bill removes obligation with regard to unaccompanied children seeking asylum with regard to European Union to join their family members in the UK. Lord Dubs has described this removal of a right as mean spirited and nasty. Can the Government tell me or Prime Minister tell me why he is making this mean spirited and nasty move?

I’m afraid the honourable lady has totally misunderstood or possibly misrepresented the purpose of what we are doing here. We remain proud of our work in receiving unaccompanied children and will continue to support fully the purpose and spirit of Dubs amendment but this is not the place in this bill to do so. The Government remains absolutely committed to doing so. And amongst many other advantages of this bill Mr Speaker is of course that we will be able to sign free trade deals with the booming markets of the world, a power that no British government has enjoyed for the last 46 years.

We will cast off the Common Agricultural Policy that has too often frustrated and burdened our farmers we will release our fishermen from the tangled driftnets of arcane quota systems and I give way to my right honourable friend on the point of fishing.

[Interjection] I offer my heartiest congratulations there will be no communities more keen to get control back than the fishing community. Can he guarantee we will not make mistake of 1970s, we will not allow allocation of fishing resources to be a bargaining chip in negotiations, we will become like a normal independent maritime nation and conduct negotiations on an annual basis for reciprocal deals for mutual advantage?

My right honourable perfectly understands what we need to do - to restore to this country it’s spectacular marine wealth and that is exactly what we will do when we become an independent coastal state. And I remind the House and I remind the members opposite that there is of course on party in this House that is committed to reversing will of the people and handing back control of Scotland’s outstanding marine wealth to Brussels – the SNP. That’s what they would do and I look forward to hearing them explain why they continue to support this abject policy and abject surrender.

This House will also under this bill regains the authority to set the highest possible standards and we will take advantage of these new freedoms to legislate in parallel on the environment, on workers’ and consumers’ rights.

And I reject the inexplicable fear – and I will give way for the last time – the right honourable lady may wish to talk about this. I give way with pleasure.

[Interjection] I am grateful to the Prime Minister and he is right he has won a mandate to get Brexit done but what he has not earned is the right to shoe horn into this legislation measures that are a direct attack one some of the most vulnerable children in the world. If he thinks that people - in towns like mine – who believe that we deliver Brexit- will want to see us turn our back on decency and tolerance, he is wrong. Will he take these measures about child refugees out of this bill?

I may say that I understand where the honourable lady is coming from but like the honourable lady who speaks for the Scottish National Party she is wrong on this point we remain absolutely committed to ensuring we continue in this country to receive unaccompanied children. As we have done and we’ve received thousands already. This country has a proud, proud record and we will continue to do so. I thought she might say that this House would be unable to regulate on the environment in a way superior to the European Union but that is what we will now be able to do. And I reject the idea that our proceedings must somehow be overseen and invigilated by the EU and measured against their benchmarks.

The very essence of the opportunity of Brexit is we will no longer outsource these decisions. With renewed national self-confidence we will take them ourselves and answer to those who sent us here.

It was this Parliament – this Parliament - in this country that led the whole of Europe and the world in passing the Factory Acts – the clean air Acts- of the nineteenth century - which improved industrial working conditions by law and this House should never doubt its ability to pioneer the standards of the fourth industrial revolution just as we did the first.

And that epoch-making transformation – as with all the pivotal achievements of British history - reflected the combined national genius of every corner of this United Kingdom. In this new era our success, once again, will be achieved as One Nation.

This new deal in this Bill ensures that the United Kingdom will leave the EU whole and entire with an unwavering dedication to Northern Ireland’s place in our Union. And on that point I happily give way to right honourable gentleman.

[Interjection] The PM knows he has the strength from this election to deliver Brexit. He also knows that we want to deliver Brexit but we want to deliver Brexit as one nation. And I’m glad that that terminology has been reinjected into this debate. Concerns for custom arrangements and potential for checks in Northern Ireland. Will the PM commit to proper and thorough and detailed reconsideration using strength we have to deliver for entirety of this country?

Of course Mr Speaker I respect the point that the right honourable gentleman is making but let me remind him that the deal commits to unfettered access and in all parts of the UK respects the territorial integrity of the UK and ensures that Northern Ireland is part of the UK customs territory and would therefore benefit immediately from any of our new trade deals as soon as they are in force.

And let me just remind the House Mr Speaker that the special provisions applying to Northern Ireland – which ensure after all one very important thing - that there is no hard border across Ireland and Northern Ireland are subject to the consent of the Northern Ireland Assembly.

And unless the Assembly specifically withholds its consent unless indeed the assembly insists on continuing with this approach then those arrangements automatically lapse into full alignment with the rest of the UK.

I believe these arrangements serve the interests of Northern Ireland and the UK as a whole. And it is a great deal for our whole country. And we must now begin building our future relationship with the EU. Our aim is to provide a close friendship, between sovereign equals, to promote our common interests inspired by pride in our European heritage and civilisation.

And Clause 3 of the Political Declaration invokes that spirit – establishing – and I quote “the parameters of an ambitious, broad, deep and flexible partnership” rooted in our shared “history and ideals” and “standing together against threats to rights and values from without or within”. I am absolutely determined that this great project will not be the project of one government or one party but of the British nation as a whole.

So Parliament as I have said will be kept fully informed about progress of these negotiations. And we should be fortified by a renewed sense of confidence that while our democratic institutions – and policy of Lib Dems is now to have another referendum – so when they have worked their policy out I’ll give way.

And we should be fortified by a renewed sense of confidence that while our democratic institutions – have been tested as never before if this House comes together now to support this Bill as I hope it will history will record that the first act of this new Parliament in its earliest days was to break the ice floes and find a new way – a new passage through - to unsuspected oceans of opportunity.

Now is the moment to come together and write a new and exciting chapter in our national story to forge a new partnership with our European friends to stand tall in the world and to begin the healing for which the whole people of this country yearn.

And it is in that spirit of unity that I commend this Bill to the House.

HUMILIATED CORBYN TRIES TO TEAR INTO PM'S PLEDGES ON WORKERS' RIGHTS AND REFUGEE CHILDREN

Here is the Labour leader's speech in full:

Over the last three and a half years the government’s mishandling of Brexit has delivered nothing but political gridlock, chaos and economic uncertainty

It has paralysed our political system, divided our communities and nations and become a national embarrassment on an unprecedented scale

For people outside Westminster the constant argument and pointless posturing in parliament has only served to demonstrate the political system is not working for them

So we recognise the clear message from the British public last week, however they voted in the referendum of 2016, and understand their determination to end the never-ending cycle of Brexit debate and get back to solving the day-to-day issues and challenges they face in their lives

We must listen and understand that we cannot go on forever debating what happened in 2016

We have to respect that decision and move on.

But Mr Speaker, understanding all this doesn’t mean we as a party and a movement should abandon basic principles or give up the demand for a fairer and more just society.

We warned before the general election that the Prime Minister’s Brexit deal was a terrible deal for our country and we still believe it is a terrible deal today. It will not protect or strengthen our rights or support our manufacturing industry and vital trading relationships, or protect our natural world in a time of a climate crisis.

Neither will it address the deep inequality in our system or secure the interests of every nation and region in the United Kingdom.

Instead under the Conservatives this deal will be used as a battering ram to drive us down the path of yet more deregulation and towards a toxic deal with Donald Trump that will sell out our NHS and push up the price of medicines to benefit the giant US drugs corporations.

That will take us away from the essential principles we believe in, of a country that looks after everybody and protects those communities left behind by the excesses of runaway capitalism.

This deal doesn’t bring certainty for communities or for business and workforces. In fact it does the opposite and hard-wires in the risk of a No Deal Brexit in a year’s time.

I’m sure that will delight many of those on the benches opposite but not those who will suffer the consequences in communities and workplaces across Britain.

That is why Labour will not support this Bill as we remain certain there is a better and fairer way for this country to leave the EU.

One which would not risk ripping our communities apart, selling out our public services or sacrificing hundreds of thousands of jobs in the process.

This deal is a roadmap for the reckless direction in which the government and the Prime Minister are determined to take our country. They have done their utmost to hide its likely impact and continue to use gimmicks and slogans to turn attention away from their real intentions.

And nothing exposes this more than the steps they have already taken on workers’ rights.

For all the promises over the past few weeks that they are the party to protect rights at work, at the very first opportunity they have removed the basic provisions they had said would be part of this bill.

That does not bode well for the separate Bill the prime minister is now saying he will bring forward on workers’ rights

If he wants to assure people that their rights are safe in his hands he should commit to legislate to ensure workers rights in Britain will never fall behind EU standards in the future and support amendments to enshrine this commitment within this bill.

Mr Speaker, I want to make it absolutely clear how appalled I am to see the government remove the protections in this Bill for unaccompanied children seeking asylum.

Throughout the last Parliament and for his whole life my good friend Lord Dubs has worked tirelessly to ensure children affected by the worst aspects of global injustice are given sanctuary in this country.

Now this government, in its first week in office has ripped up those hard won commitments.

This is a move the director of the charity Safe Passage has described as, and I quote: “truly shocking” Saying it could have and I quote again: “potentially tragic consequences”.

Shame on this government for abandoning children in this way.

Mr Speaker, on the environment and food safety standards this deal points to a complete realignment towards the far weaker protections and standards that operate in Donald Trump’s America.

If this government is set on pursuing a Trump trade deal with precious few bargaining chips to hand the brutal reality is that Britain will have to lower its standards.

The EU has made it clear that a future trade deal with them will depend on maintaining a level playing field in standards and protections.

So the choice we now face is between keeping the highest environmental and food standards in order to get that future deal with the EU or slashing food standards to match the US, where what are called “acceptable levels” of rat hairs in paprika and maggots in orange juice are allowed, just so we can strike a new race-to-the-bottom deal with Donald Trump.

Turning to the arrangements with Northern Ireland the Prime Minister has emphatically claimed, and I quote:“there will be no checks between Northern Ireland and GB”

And that: “we have a deal that keeps the whole of the UK together as we come of the EU”

These claims are simply not true.

We know from the analysis carried out by his own Treasury that under his deal there will, in fact, be an abundance of checks and customs declarations in the Irish Sea.

Not only will this have a huge impact on Northern Irish business and society, it will also have implications for the rest of Britain’s economy and manufacturing industry.

The Treasury’s own analysis spells it out: the more the government diverges from EU trading regulations in the future the more checks and disruption will be put in place between Britain and our biggest trading partner.

More checks and more disruption would be deeply damaging for trade and for our manufacturing sector and threatens to take a wrecking ball to our vital supply chains and the hundreds of thousands of jobs that rely on them.

From car manufacturers to the chemical industry disruption to our just-in-time supply chains will have a devastating impact.

This all makes it even more incredible that since agreeing its deal the government has yet to produce a single bit of evidence or analysis to show it will have a positive impact on the economy or our communities in any way. We scarcely need to ask ourselves, why?

I say to all members new and old that it is our job to question to scrutinise and to hold the government of the day to account.

If we believe the government is taking the wrong approach we should not be afraid to oppose.

And when it comes to our future relationship with the EU and the rest of the world we cannot let this government act in an undemocratic and secretive manner.

Trade deals with the EU, the US, or anybody else for that matter must be done transparently. This country is about to embark on a major change of direction as we leave a 40 year economic partnership for an unknown future, under the terms of this withdrawal deal.

The government needs to be honest with the people about the real choices and the real risks that lie ahead.

So stop the posturing and the gimmicks and ditch the unachievable red lines that will only lead to another No Deal cliff edge, with all the anxiety and uncertainty that brings.

The Prime Minister may believe that fuelling division and confrontation has helped him realise his personal political ambition.

But it’s no way to heal the deep divisions in our society or find the common ground we need to move beyond Brexit.

We need an approach that puts jobs and living standards first and builds the strongest cooperation with our European neighbours based on openness, solidarity and internationalism.

That is the approach that will bring an end to the Brexit crisis and bring our country together.