He's been enjoying the laid-back lifestyle in tropical Bali since his tearful goodbye to Angie Kent on The Bachelorette, last month.

But on Thursday, Timm Hanly revealed he was 'keen to get freaky' as he made his return to Australia and straight to popular gay nightspot Monsoon in Darwin.

The 27-year-old took to Instagram stories to share clips of himself posing with drag queen 'Miss Ellaeous'.

In one clip, a shirtless Timm was seen flaunting his impressive chest of ink, telling his fans: 'I just got to Darwin, it's hot and muggy but I'm keen to get freaky tonight.'

In another, taken hours later, Timm was filmed posing backstage at the popular nightspot with drag queen, Miss Ellaneous.

'Just here with Missy, and we are about to turn shit up at Monsoons in Darwin, how you traveling babe?' Timm asked.

'Ready to get freaky': The Bachelorette's Timm Hanly hung out with drag queen 'Miss Ellaneous' at popular gay nightclub Monsoon in Darwin on Thursday night

Miss Ellaneous replied: 'I'm loving my life and even more so now that I'm here with you and finally meeting you'.

'She's looking good, we're both looking good, and we're ready to turn it up,' Timm said.

The clips took a hilarious turn when Timm noticed photographs of fellow Bachelorette contestant Ciarran Stott lined along the wall of the dressing room.

Hilarious: While at the nightspot, Timm noticed photographs of fellow Bachelorette contestant Ciarran Stott lined along the wall of the dressing room

'So I'm just here in Darwin in Ciarran Stott's hometown, apparently he's famous around here, I found a few photos,' Timm said, holding back laughter.

He then panned the camera to a photo of Ciarran wearing a pair of tight-fitting white briefs while holding up his singlet up to reveal his washboard abs.

'Looking an absolute treat,' he joked, before showing his legion of fans another embarrassing photo of the British larrikin.

'Eat your heart out you sexy b*****d,' Tim remarked, before sarcastically adding: 'What's that called? An ugly duckling.'

In the photo, Ciarran looks barely recognisable with a fedora and reading glasses.

During his stint on The Bachelorette, Ciarran revealed to Angie about his raunchy past as a stripper at the gay nightclub in Darwin.

'I used to dance in a gay bar... with, like, drag queens,' he began. 'It was carnage, but it was so much fun!'

Popular! In 2016, Ciarran (bottom, left) would regularly take to the stage in skimpy underwear while entertaining punters alongside drag queens. Pictured in 2016

Angie then asked him cheekily: 'What other little secret things do you do?'

Ciarran recently flew to Fiji to appear on the third season of Bachelor in Paradise, which will air on Channel 10 early next year.

He will be joined there by his ex-girlfriend, Renee Barrett, who had previously appeared on Matt Agnew's season of The Bachelor.