Movie critics have brutally savaged the film adaptation of the popular stage musical cats, but now social media users are getting in on the shaming

The movie adaptation currently has a 19 per cent approval rating on the Rotten Tomatoes and has even received one reviewer's first ever zero-star rating.

Director Tom Hooper's extravagant rendering - with an A-list ensemble cast featuring the talents of Taylor Swift, Dame Judi Dench, Idris Elba and Sir Ian McKellen - has received largely negative comments in early reviews.

Cats currently has a 19 per cent approval rating on the Rotten Tomatoes and has even received one reviewer's first ever zero-star rating

Several movie goers took to Twitter to share their reactions to the movie and also posted negative reviews they've seen from critics

Branded an 'all-time disaster' by one critic, the film was slammed as 'jarring', 'a huge failure', 'soulless' and just plain 'wrong' by movie buffs on both sides of the Atlantic.

Several movie goers took to Twitter to share their reactions to the movie and also posted negative reviews they've seen from critics.

'Just been to see Cats,' one user said. 'They let the audience in and ten minutes later they wanted to go back out again.'

Another user added: 'Watching #CatsMovie is like attending a dinner party hosted by your polyamorous friends. You spend the whole time worried that it is 2 minutes away from turning into an orgy.'

'Hold on, why is Danny DeVito/Batman Penguin in the CATS movie?' one user asked

'I have yet to read a Cats review that doesn't refer to drugs,' declared one user

Shock seemed to be a common reaction among movie goers who saw Cats. Horror and confusion were a close second and third

'I have yet to read a Cats review that doesn't refer to drugs,' declared one user.

Shock seemed to be a common reaction among movie goers who saw Cats. Horror and confusion were a close second and third.

For several folks on Twitter, the onslaught of bad reviews did not surprise them at all.

Others relished in the bad news, advocating for musical productions to not be remade for the big screen.

For several folks on Twitter, the onslaught of bad reviews did not surprise them at all

Others relished in the bad news, advocating for musical productions to not be remade for the big screen

One user managed to find a review that didn't totally drag the movie as being terrible.

Some users wandered if their dogs were behind the brutal reviews being shared about the film. They posted goofy memes showing dogs at their computers typing diligently.

One theory heavily circulated on Twitter said that the impeachment news needed to be buried by something, with that something being a tanking Cats movie.

Another referenced J.J. Abrams Star Wars movie Rise of Skywalker, which was receiving mixed reviews from critics.

Some users wandered if their dogs were behind the brutal reviews being shared about the film

One theory heavily circulated on Twitter said that the impeachment news needed to be buried by something, with that something being a tanking Cats movie