Home appliances store Bing Lee has launched an incredible sale on Dyson hairdryers, vacuums and tower fans ahead of Boxing Day.

The Australian retailer is preparing for one of their biggest sale days of the year on December 26, but have decided to give a sneak peek of some of their best Dyson discounts, which are on sale from today.

The much-loved Supersonic Hairdryer with a stand is available for $549, with many loyal customers calling it the 'only' product they will use on their notoriously frizzy strands.

The much-loved Supersonic Hairdryer with a stand is available for $549, with many loyal customers calling it the 'only' product they will use on their notoriously frizzy strands

To tidy up your house before the Christmas lunch crew arrive invest in the Cyclone V10 Animal Cordless Vacuum. It normally retails for $999 but is marked down to $699 for 13 days only.

It comes with a number of 'heads' that can be used for dusting hard-to-reach areas and can quickly transform into a handheld device should you need to get a closer angle.

If you're not in the market to pay almost $700 there is a cheaper alternative in the V7 Motorhead collection, which is usually ticketed at $599 but is now $399.

It can run for 30 minutes at a time and can be emptied in seconds with a handy lever that tips straight into the bin.

Vacuums (including the Cinetic Big Ball Absolute (left) and Cyclone V10 Animal Cordless Vacuum (right)) are up to $300 off starting from December 20 and extending to December 31

The slightly larger model vacuums - called the Cinetic Big Ball Absolute and Cinetic Big Ball Multi Floor Extra - have been been discounted to $699 and $449 respectively and are able to handle bigger cleans across multiple storeys.

The barrels don't include any dirty filters, are easy to steer and roll onto their correct side if they are knocked over.

As Australia swelters through its hottest start to summer ever, Dyson lovers will be reaching for the Cool Tower Fan to keep their houses at optimum temperatures.

The Hot and Cool Fan Heater is $80 cheaper than usual at $495 (pictured)

It has a sleep timer so you can put the fan on at night and it will turn off after a designated amount of time.

Normally $548 it's $100 cheaper thanks to Bing Lee's earlier Boxing Day sale, alongside the Hot and Cool Fan Heater which is $80 cheaper than usual at $495.

There will be more deals to come in the next few days but all of them will expire by December 31.