Manchester United officials believe Paul Pogba has played his last game for the club, according to reports.

The Frenchman, who has not featured for Ole Gunnar Solskjaer's side since September 30 because of an injury, has had his heart set on leaving Old Trafford.

Pogba has been angling for a move away from United for months now and looks set to get his wish with Real Madrid waiting in the wings, according to the Mirror.

Man United officials believe Paul Pogba has played his last game for the club, reports suggest

With the January transfer window set to open in under a fortnight's time, Pogba may well not pull on the red shirt again if United decide to cash in on him.

The 26-year-old was expected to return to action this week but was dealt with another setback.

While recovering from his ankle injury, Pogba was given permission to attend his brother's wedding in France last Friday.

Days later, Solskjaer announced that United's club record £89million signing picked up an illness and missed the Carabao Cup win over Colchester on Wednesday as a result.

Pogba (right) has been out since picking up a knee injury against Arsenal in September

'Of all things he's been struck down ill now,' said the United boss.

'He's been off for two or three days – three days probably – so that's not beneficial. That's probably set him back quite a bit.

'As I've said so many times, Paul's a top player that we want to see him playing his best football at Man United. We just need to get him fit and match fit.

'It might be half an hour, 45, 60, 90 minutes in the first game, who knows? We're working hard to get him back but now he's ill.'

The most recent update on Pogba was all the more mystifying because the Frenchman and his family posted videos of the United player dancing at his brother Florentin's wedding in Bussy-Saint-Georges on the outskirts of Paris on Friday.

Paul Pogba was given permission to attend his brother's wedding in France on Friday

PAUL POGBA'S 2019-20 SEASON STATS Apps: 6 Goals: 0 Assists: 2 Yellow cards: 0 Red cards: 0

The 26-year-old midfielder has spent time working on his fitness in Dubai and Florida, but may now struggle to play again until the new year.

Sportsmail revealed last week that United will open the door to Pogba's departure in the summer by signing two central midfielders before the start of next season.

'We can talk about Paul all day long when you're lacking that one creative pass or ideas maybe,' added Solskjaer.

'He has that quality that not many midfielders in the world have, so to get him back would be great.'