She may have her hands full juggling a successful career and being a mother to four young children.

But on Wednesday, WAG Rebecca Judd made it look easy when she took her kids shopping in Melbourne's Brighton.

The 36-year-old radio host and activewear entrepreneur showed off her very slender legs in a pair of tiny denim shorts as she enjoyed a day out with her family.

Making it look easy! WAG Rebecca Judd shows managed to wrangle all four of her young children during a Christmas shopping trip in Melbourne on Wednesday

Bec teamed her bottoms with a navy singlet from her activewear line Jaggad, which she started with husband Chris.

She showcased a deep tan in her ensemble and teamed the look with some trendy sneakers.

Bec wore her long hair out and over her shoulders in loose tousled curls and covered her eyes with a pair of designer sunglasses.

One hot mama! The 36-year-old radio host and activewear entrepreneur showed off her very slender legs in a pair of tiny denim shorts as she enjoyed a day out with her family

She's got her hands full! The slender star picked up a bunch of flowers, before helping her kids get into her luxury car

Family: Bec shares son Oscar, eight, daughter Billie, five, and twin sons Tom and Darcy, three, with AFL star husband Chris (left)

The slender star picked up a bunch of flowers, before helping her kids get into her luxury car.

The popular WAG shares son Oscar, eight, daughter Billie, five, and twin sons Tom and Darcy, three, with AFL star husband Chris.

Last month, she told Daily Mail Australia at Derby Day in Melbourne that she and Chris won't be having anymore children.

That's it! Last month, she told Daily Mail Australia at Derby Day in Melbourne that she and Chris won't be having anymore children

'I feel like I want to give all my kids the attention they deserve': Bec candidly revealed she would find it difficult to 'spread her love' between her children should she have any more

Bec candidly revealed she would find it difficult to 'spread her love' between her children should she have any more.

'I feel like I want to give all my kids the attention they deserve,' she said.

'Having four, you've got to spread your love. You keep adding more into the mix... I wouldn't want to do it to them!

'We started early, we finished early. We are done!'

She also opened up on how she keeps in such incredible shape after welcoming four children.

'I do cardio tennis two days a week, Tuesday and Friday - and that's it,' she said.

'I do like an hour and half, two hours both days, and that's literally it. Good genes!'