Zoe Kravitz spared a side of shade Thursday morning as she went after Donald Trump by posting a nude photo of herself biting seductively into a peach.

'Eat that, 45' she captioned the post, in reference to the impeachment of the 45th U.S. president.

With her long black hair flowing down her back, the Big Little Lies actress showed off her mural of minimalist-style tattoos and tastefully covered her breasts with her hands and arms as she chomped down on the fruit.

Life's a peach: 'Eat that, 45' Zoe Kravitz captioned the Thursday Instagram post, in reference to the impeachment of 45th U.S. president Donald Trump

She appeared to be relatively makeup-free and positioned her hands across her chest to give off a bit of modesty.

The 31-year-old beauty has been busy this year filming the upcoming Hulu series High Fidelity, an adaptation of the the Nick Hornby novel of the same name, which stars Kravitz in the lead role.

It's a personal project for the daughter of rockstar Lenny Kravitz, as mom Lisa Bonet starred in the original movie version in 2000 opposite John Cusack.

Quiet on set: The 31-year-old beauty on the set of High Fidelity in July. The star has been busy this year filming the upcoming Hulu series, an adaptation of the the Nick Hornby novel of the same name, which stars Kravitz in the lead role

But the Los Angeles native took time out on Thursday to get political, as she joined a chorus of left-leaning celebrities who made their approval of the House's decision on Wednesday to impeach the president known on their various social media platforms.

Notable names celebrating the historic ruling — Trump is the third president in American history to be impeached and the second to be impeached in his first term — included rapper Lizzo, TV host Padma Lakshmi and actress Amber Tamblyn.

'Trump has been impeached on both counts against him: Abuse of Power and Obstruction of Congress,' Lakshmi posted on Twitter, alongside a meme of Amy Poehler at the 2015 Emmys throwing up peace signs.

Deuces: Padma Lakshmi took to Twitter to celebrate the impeachment of Donald Trump on Wednesday

Christmas for the resistance: Notable names celebrating the historic impeachment ruling included rapper Lizzo, Lakshmi and actress Amber Tamblyn, who joined in with a simple 'HAPPY HOLIDAYS, TWITTER'

Feelin' good as hell: Rapper Lizzo also went a few rounds, starting with a curious 'What happens next?' before sounding off with 'Anyways, I'm having a great day!'

Tamblyn chimed in with a simple 'Happy holidays, Twitter.'

Lizzo also went a few rounds, starting with a curious 'What happens next?' before sounding off with 'Anyways, I'm having a great day!'

Now that the House has voted in favor of two articles of impeachment, Obstruction of Congress and Abuse of Power, the next step in the process will be a trial in the Republican-majority Senate.

The Senate will then decide whether to remove Trump from office.