Washing machines that pose a fire risk were still on sale this week – even though the maker knew they were dangerous.

Whirlpool told its American investors two months ago that it was setting aside £80million to deal with a recall of 519,000 Hotpoint and Indesit appliances.

But British retailers were not told to remove them from sale until Tuesday – the same day customers were warned to stop using them.

Whirlpool told its American investors two months ago that it was setting aside £80million to deal with a recall of 519,000 Hotpoint and Indesit appliances (stock)

The company continued to sell them despite the fact they had been implicated in at least 79 fires and ten injuries dating back to at least 2016.

The revelation raises serious questions as to why the US giant put British families at risk by delaying the recall and failing to alert stores such as ao.com, Argos and John Lewis.

All three retailers confirmed that the first time they knew about the recall was on Tuesday. Both ao.com and Argos removed the washing machines from sale straight away, while John Lewis did not have any stock. Currys PC World, which sold the machines, confirmed last night that the first it knew of any problem was on Tuesday. It would not say if the machines were still available this week.

Sue Davies, of the consumer group Which?, said: ‘It’s alarming that Whirlpool investors were told almost two months before consumers and retailers about these fire-risk machines.

‘There needs to be a thorough investigation into what Whirlpool knew and when about these safety concerns with washing machines that have been on sale for over five years.

‘The company should offer refunds to the many customers who cannot wait months for a repair or replacement, or who simply may not want a machine from the tainted Whirlpool brand in their homes.’ Whirlpool is in the dock over a series of scandals linked to its appliances. The firm gave the impression that its recall of the washing machines was a voluntary measure to protect consumers.

But it has emerged that it was forced to act by a government watchdog, the Office for Public Safety and Standards, which said: ‘This safety announcement and recall follows urgent action by the regulator.’

The firm will not deal with requests to replace machines or offer repairs until January 9.

Whirlpool vice president Jeff Noel said: ‘Claims that Whirlpool delayed notifying customers about this safety issue are entirely false.

‘At the time of our earnings report in October, the full extent of the issue had not been established. A reserve was established in case investigations identified a need to take action.

‘This is a complex issue and it has required weeks of rigorous analysis to confirm which models are affected. Whirlpool proactively notified the UK product safety regulator and... proposed and committed to a nationwide product recall at the earliest opportunity.’