NSW is expected to get some reprieve from the heat heading into Christmas - but first the state must endure another "dangerously hot" day across coastal areas.

The Bureau of Meteorology is warning that Saturday could be even hotter than Thursday, when two firefighters were killed and several others hospitalised during an exhausting day battling out-of-control bushfires.

BOM acting NSW manager Jane Golding said temperatures on Saturday would again rise into the mid-40s, with Penrith expecting a maximum of 47C and coastal areas hitting the mid-to-high 30s.

"That's dangerously hot weather," she told reporters in Sydney on Friday.

A gusty cool change is then expected on Saturday afternoon which will bring some relief for central and southern NSW but also create dangerous conditions on waterways and challenging fire conditions.

Smoke is also expected to build-up around coastal areas.

"Those southerlies when they come through (will) be close to gale force," Ms Golding said.

"The other thing with this system is it is bringing through some swell behind it, so dangerous conditions in the waters on the beach tomorrow as well."

Ms Golding said the good news was there was some respite on the way for NSW as the southerly change moved eastwards after reaching Sydney about 5pm.

That should bring cooler temperatures set to stick around for several days, with eastern NSW just needing to get through Saturday, Ms Golding said.

NSW Ambulance superintendent Brent Armitage said there had been an increase in heat-related call-outs on Thursday, with the organisation responding to a 95-year-old woman on the Central Coast and a 34-year-old man in western NSW with heat exhaustion.

Paramedics have also seen a 10 per cent increase in respiratory call-outs over the past week due to bushfire smoke.

"With a predicted heatwave and temperatures tomorrow, now is not the time to be complacent. The risk is very real," Mr Armitage said.

Surf Life Saving NSW chief executive Steve Pearce, meanwhile, said Saturday would be "one of the first major challenging days" for surf life saving this summer.

Mr Pearce urged swimmers seeking respite from the heat to head to patrolled beaches.