The SFA will ask clubs to decide on the introduction of Video Assistant Referees (VAR) to Scottish football early in the New Year.

Chief Executive Ian Maxwell has commissioned a study into the costs and benefits of implementing the controversial system.

And the nation's chairmen will now be asked if they are willing to foot an estimated bill of £1million a year to bring Scottish football into line with England and many of the world's leagues.

The SFA will ask clubs to decide on the introduction of Video Assistant Referees (VAR)

Rangers boss Steven Gerrard called for the implementation of VAR in Scottish football after a disputed winner for Celtic in the Betfred Cup Final.

And with referees fearful of missing out on major international tournaments if the black-out continues Maxwell wants to put the matter to the vote by April.

'Because of the way England has implemented VAR and the focus received it has led to fewer people pushing for it in Scotland,' he told Sportsmail.

'But we have had a couple of high profile incidents recently that would have been corrected, you might have thought.

Rangers boss Steven Gerrard called for the implementation of VAR after the Betfred Cup Final

'And in the early part of 2020 we need to be going to Scottish football and saying, 'there is the cost guys, do you want to do it or not?' 'That is the way it's going to have to be because when you look at all the other countries that have it the association will pay for the implementation costs and the training of match officials.

'But we would also need more match officials and we are in the process of finalising details of how much that would cost.

'I would like to think we would have all that completed within the first three months of 2020.

'Ultimately the clubs are going to have to pay for it one way or another because it is either coming from the league distribution prize pot - the money left over when all the costs are stripped away - or it's coming from the Scottish FA pot distributed to clubs.

'Clubs need to be as informed as they can about fundamentally how much it's going to cost.' The SPFL have yet to give their consent to any vote on the issue next year. With a record new Sky Sports deal kicking in at the beginning of season 2020/21, however, the costs of implementing the system could be met by the broadcasting windfall.

Whether lower league clubs would be willing to give up a chunk of their income for a system only applicable to the SPFL Premiership remains to be seen.

Insisting an informed decision has to be made one way or the other, however, Maxwell adds: 'There are a lot of clubs doing it now. We are on IFAB and are heavily involved in the protocols and how it all works.

'We could make a decision on the Scottish Cup and decide 'we will do it for the semi-finals and final.' 'We could make that call and that's fine.

'But it's not our decision to make for the SPFL - it's a question for the clubs themselves.

'Do they want it or do they not?

'We need to say, 'that's what the cost is going to be.' Countries like Malta and Georgia have already implemented VAR - with Scotland's top referees expressing support for the move this summer despite widespread criticism of its impact in England and beyond.

Currently advertising for a new Head of Referees following the passing of the late John Fleming, interviews will begin next month with the man likely to be heavily involved in pushing forward VAR proposals.

Admitting he can't predict how the chairmen will vote Maxwell added: 'Clubs have to be presented with the facts and decide, 'yes we want it and the benefits that come with it' or alternatively, 'you know what? We don't.' 'I would like to think we would get there eventually, but I genuinely don't know.'