They both failed to find love with Angie Kent on the most recent season of The Bachelorette.

But runner-up Timm Hanly still found the opportunity to poke fun at his former competitor Ciarran Stott this week, months after the show finished filming.

The hunky 27-year-old headed to Ciarran's hometown in Darwin on Thursday, and couldn't help but share some old pictures of his pal after he discovered them plastered on the wall of local nightclub, Monsoons.

Huge change! Ciarran added a heap of tattoos and grew his hair prior to his Bachelorette appearance (right), following his younger days dancing in a nightclub (left)

Jokingly referring to him as an 'ugly duckling' in the snaps, Timm laughed: 'So I'm just here in Darwin, in Ciarran Stott's hometown. Apparently he's famous around here, I've found a few photos.'

He then flashed the camera to a very young-looking tattoo free Ciarran - now 25 - flashing his washboard abs to the camera in a photo pinned to the wall.

'Stotty looking an absolute f**king treat here,' Timm continued. 'But wait, there's more... Ciarran Stott, eat your heart out you sexy b*****d.'

'Stotty looking an absolute f**king treat here,' Timm also shared a second snap of Ciarran, sporting zero tattoos in a khaki vest and black fedora

All smiles! Timm Hanly (pictured) was hysterical after finding the old photos, and was quick to tag Ciarran in the story

Timm then shared a second snap of Ciarran, looking very youthful in a khaki vest, black fedora and clear glasses.

'What's it called, the ugly duckling?' Timm said, before breaking out into laughter.

It's well-known that Ciarran was big on the nightclub scene before his appearance on The Bachelorette, regularly dancing in his underwear at Darwin's leading LGBT nightspot, Throb.

He opened up about his past to Angie on the show, saying: 'I used to dance in a gay bar... with, like, drag queens! It was carnage, but it was so much fun!'

Let it go! Ciarran (left) is certainly no stranger to the spotlight, with a raunchy past performing in Darwin's leading gay nightclub, Throb (pictured far left)

Following his rise to fame, Ciarran recently revealed he plans to relocate from Darwin to Sydney because he is 'over' living in the Northern Territory.

At the end of November, he shared a post on Instagram which read: 'Looks like a fresh new chapter is starting very soon for myself and I can’t wait!

'Sydney you are on my horizon. New chapter means new beginnings and I’m so excited!'