Victorians are bracing for extreme heat as forecasts threaten to crack December records and a statewide total fire ban was put in place.

Temperatures will climb into the 40s across the state on Friday.

Melbourne was forecast to hit 44C, soaring close to Black Saturday in 2009, when the temperature reached 46.4C and fires killed 173 and injured another 414.

Swan Hill and Mildura were expected to reach 47C, with Mildura's current December record standing at 44C.

A woman walks her dog as the sun rises over Melbourne with the temperature expected to be above forty degrees today (above)

'We saw more than 40 fires on Wednesday, and in some respects that was a taste of what will be coming on Friday,' Emergency management commissioner Andrew Crisp said on Thursday.

'We cannot afford to be complacent in any part of the state.'

Emergency Victoria stressed the need to be bushfire ready, preparing and cleaning properties and developing an escape plan.

A southerly wind will bring on a cool change by the end of Friday, but thunderstorms without rain were likely, bringing the threat of lightning strikes.

Almost 500 firefighters were battling three uncontained fires in East Gippsland with 84 trucks and 41 dozers on the ground, the County Fire Authority says.

There were another 118 firefighters patrolling blazes at Somerton with a helicopter and bulldozer on hand, while more than 260 firefighters remained at the contained Tambo Crossing fire.

While other parts of Australia also battled bushfires, 108 Victorian personnel remain interstate to help.

Public Transport Victoria said extreme heat timetables were in place on multiple V/Line services and Melbourne Yarra Trams advised services will be altered on Friday.

People were urged to check on their neighbours, infants, the elderly and expectant mothers in the extreme heat.

Homeless people in Melbourne will be given free pool passes and movie tickets to help them stay cool.

'Asking someone inside to escape the heat of the day to see a film, swim in one of our pools or relax in an air-conditioned room could help prevent them becoming seriously unwell,' Councillor Beverley Pinder said.