She recently admitted she will miss walking in the now cancelled Victoria Secret Fashion Show.

But Alessandra Ambrosio, 38, looked radiant when she stepped out on Thursday night to celebrate the launch of MDL Beast Festival in Saudi Arabia.

The supermodel opted for an all back ensemble with a leather jumpsuit unzipped to reveal a black polar neck underneath.

Sexy: Alessandra Ambrosio, 38, looked radiant when she stepped out on Thursday night to celebrate the launch of MDL Beast Festival in Saudi Arabia

The Brazilian beauty clenched the loosely fitted outfit in at the waist with a thick leather belt adorned with gold embellishment.

Matching the gold detail, she wore a gold Chanel chain around her neck. Keeping with the biker chic theme, she wore a pair of patent black boots on her feet.

She wore her brunette tresses in loose waves cascading around her shoulders.

Biker chic: The Brazilian beauty clenched the loosely fitted outfit in at the waist with a thick leather belt adorned with gold embellishment

Va Va Voom: Matching the gold detail, she wore a gold Chanel chain around her neck. Keeping with the biker chic theme, she wore a pair of patent black boots on her feet.

She posed for a photo with actor Armie Hammer, 33, who wore a cosy sheepskin fleece over a casual beige shirt.

The Call Me By Your Name actor paired these with a pair of blue jeans and sandy coloured shoes. Despite the dark he slipped a pair of sunglasses into his shirt.

Film producer Mohammed Al Turki, 33, stood next to the pair in a grey floor length dress and zip up bomber jacket.

Famous friends: She posed for a photo with actor Armie Hammer, 33, who wore a cosy sheepskin fleece over a casual beige shirt

Shisha: The Call Me By Your Name actor paired these with a pair of blue jeans and sandy coloured shoes. Despite the dark he slipped a pair of sunglasses into his shirt

Looking cool: Film producer Mohammed Al Turki, 33, stood next to the pair in a grey floor length dress and zip up bomber jacket

Glam: She's never been afraid to experiment with fashion. And Winnie Harlow looked typically quirky as she attended star-studded bash

Chic and cheerful: The Victoria's Secret model, 25, ensured all eyes would be on her at the event as she slipped into an all-black yet standout ensemble

Low-key glamour: Winnie sheathed her framed in a loose Marilyn Monroe print jumper teamed with tracksuit bottoms and trainers

Victoria Secret Model Nadine Leopold, 25, wore a long open tiger print jacket over a pair of pale blue jeans and plain black t shirt underneath.

She wore her blonde tresses loose with a barely there makeup palette. Keeping casual she donned a pair of white trainers on her feet and a simple black bag across her body.

As well as Nadine and Alessandra, VS babe Lorena Rae was there and looked effortlessly chic in a black corduroy jacket tucked into black jeans and lace up boots.

Animal instinct: Victoria Secret Model Nadine Leopold, 25, wore a long open tiger print jacket over a pair of pale blue jeans and plain black t shirt underneath

Fierce:She wore her blonde tresses loose with a barely there makeup palette

Beauty: Keeping casual she donned a pair of white trainers on her feet and a simple black bag across her body

Corduroy cool: As well as Nadine and Alessandra, VS babe Lorena Rae was there and looked effortlessly chic in a black corduroy jacket tucked into black jeans and lace up boots

Flawless: She did not need a heavy makeup palette as looked naturally glowy

She wore her balayaged blonde locks loose and looked naturally gorgeous.

Supermodel Jourdan Dunn, 29, wore a tartan style dress with long sleeves and a modest fit.

The raven haired beauty twisted her hair into braids and looked fresh faced in a glowy makeup palette with full lashes and blush on her cheeks.

Tartan moment: Supermodel Jourdan Dunn, 29, wore a tartan style dress with long sleeves and a modest fit

Braided beauty: The raven haired beauty twisted her hair into braids

Oh so chic: She looked fresh faced in a glowy makeup palette with full lashes and blush on her cheeks

Belgium beauty Rose Bertram, 25, wore a braided power pony pulled away from her face showing off her contoured makeup palette and pop of red lip.

She was also in a lather black ensemble with a furry jacket.

Gossip Girl actor Ed Westwick, 32, looked cool and casual in a black hoodie and leather coat over the top.

Leather look: Belgium beauty Rose Bertram, 25, wore a braided power pony pulled away from her face showing off her contoured makeup palette and pop of red lip

Rouge: She carried a small PRADA bag on her arm and posed looking flawless

Hey! Also opting for a leather look she wore tight leggings and a leather jacket with a furry bomber on top

The hunky star wore a pair of dark blue jeans nude coloured trainers.

He posed alongside Kenyan model Halima Aden.

The 22-year-old model wore a headscarf and shimmering makeup look with hazy purple eyes.

Pyjama chic: WAG's star Nicole Williams, 33, wowed in an orange two piece silk ensemble

Glamorous gal: She carried a fluffy white coat over her shoulder and wore a pair of nude court shoes, carrying a yellow bag for a pop of colour

The striking model wore an oversized grey coat over a black polar neck and a pair of Yeezy's on her feet.

WAG's star Nicole Williams, 33, wowed in an orange two piece silk ensemble.

The kimono styled top tied around her waist and matched the bottoms, bringing pyjama glamour to the evening.

Radiant: Halima Aden wore a long grey coat over some pale blue jeans with a pair of white yeezy's on her feet

Peace out: The 22-year-old model wore a headscarf and shimmering makeup look with hazy purple eyes

Looking good in grey: She wore a black polar neck underneath for a sophisticated touch

She carried a fluffy white coat over her shoulder and wore a pair of nude court shoes, carrying a yellow bag for a pop of colour.

The reality star braided her hair into an up-do and wore feathery lashes and a nude pout.

Cruel Intentions star Ryan Phillipe, 45, rocked a cap and casual navy pullover paired with jeans.

Famous face: Cruel Intentions star Ryan Phillipe, 45, rocked a cap and casual navy pullover paired with jeans

No cruel intentions: The star wore pale grey jeans and looked his usual dapper self

Gossip boy: Gossip Girl actor Ed Westwick, 32, looked cool and casual in a black hoodie and leather coat over the top

Biker cool: He paired the look with casual blue jeans and nude trainers

Olivia Culpo, 27, wowed in a caramel fedora and a tiered maxi dress which featured semi-sheer lace detailing.

Posing up a storm in the dress, Olivia accesssorised with a chunky brown belt as well as a slightly lighter brown hand bag.

Model Jazzelle Zanaughtti looked quirky in their white hoodie and blue quilted style skirt.

Boho babe: Olivia Culpo, 27, wowed in a caramel fedora and a tiered maxi dress which featured semi-sheer lace detailing

Women in white: Posing up a storm in the dress, Olivia accesssorised with a chunky brown belt as well as a slightly lighter brown hand bag

Cow girl vibes: She wore her chestnut locks loose with a bronzed makeup palette with pinky nude lips

Youtuber Twan Kuyper wore a khaki hoodie, grey jeans and a faded suede black jacket.

Saudi business women Deena Aljuhani Abdulaziz, 44, looked grungy in an open long black coat over a casual black hoodie.

Model Victoria Britto showed off her flat stomach in low slung camel coloured trousers paired with a black top. She her short bleach blonde hair in a quiff and a dramatic eye palette.

Striking: Youtuber Twan Kuyper wore a khaki hoodie, grey jeans and a faded suede black jacket

Casual cool: Youtuber Twan Kuyper wore a khaki hoodie, grey jeans and a faded suede black jacket

Wow: Saudi business women Deena Aljuhani Abdulaziz, 44, looked grungy in an oopen long black coat over a casual black hoodie

Quirky: The padded black hoodie was over the top of a netted black skirt

Actor Neels Vissor also opted for a biker look in a black leather jacket and hoodie.

The MDL Beast Festival opens on December 19 and will run for three days.

Tapping into the city’s popular EDM scene, The festival will provide fans with three days of music, art and culture.

Groovy: Model Jazzelle Zanaughtti looked quirky in their white hoodie and blue quilted style skirt