She was recently nominated for six Grammy Awards for her stellar album, When We All Fall Asleep, Where Do We Go?

And Billie Eilish celebrated her milestone 18th birthday with a star-studded party fit for a Bad Guy.

The singer was spotted on Wednesday evening with her friends and family in Hollywood before slipping out the back door with loads of gifts in tow.

Birthday girl: Billie Eilish was spotted dipping out the back door of her 18th birthday party on Wednesday evening in Hollywood

For her birthday, she rocked her signature green rooted look in contrast with her long black hair.

In typical Billie style, she donned an over-sized grey T-shirt with a pair of baggy Gucci pants.

As she left the venue and made her way back to her getaway car, her team was seen hauling presents out of the bash.

Birthday attire: For her birthday, she rocked her signature green rooted look in contrast with her long black hair

Gifts: Her team carried a massive haul of birthday gifts to the car

To celebrate the milestone, she took to Instagram to share throwback videos while growing up in Los Angeles with her family.

Her brother, Finneas, also made some cameos in the home videos filmed by their mother, Maggie.

The home video opens up with a young, four-year-old Billie saying: 'Hi, my name is Billie and I'm going to play a song that I made up with this guitar.'

Throwback: To celebrate the milestone, she took to Instagram to share videos while growing up in Los Angeles with her family

Performer: The home video opens up with a young, four-year-old Billie saying: 'Hi, my name is Billie and I'm going to play a song that I made up with this guitar'

The Grammy nominated artist has had quite the year as she recently celebrated being Billboard's Woman of the Year and Variety's Hitmaker of 2019, just to name a few new accolades.

'When we were working on the album, somebody told me and my brother Finneas that there was no hit on the album,' she said during her Hitmaker speech for Variety.

'I don't know what that was supposed to do, I don't know how that was supposed to help anyone — but that fool was wrong!'