Nancy Pelosi and her fellow Democrats dressed in black to impeach President Donald Trump. They aimed to look sombre as Pelosi repeatedly said how 'sad' she was. But they didn't quite pull it off.

Like a pantomime dame, Pelosi had to theatrically shush her party's raucous cheering as the vote went through.

Some Democrats didn't even disguise their glee. Rashida Tlaib, the Congresswoman for Michigan's 13th district, posted an obnoxious video of herself on social media. 'Let's do this!' she squeaked. It was Tlaib who, in January, celebrated her arrival in Congress by declaring 'We're going to impeach the mother****er'. At least she's honest.

Most of the Democrats are playing gutter politics while claiming the moral high ground.

Nancy Pelosi dressed in black to impeach President Donald Trump

Similar to John Bercow's attempts to style his anti-Brexit manoeuvres as constitutional protocol, Trump's opponents talk a lot about protecting institutional 'norms', while they themselves play merry havoc with the system of government.

They cheapen democracy as they preach about defending it. His impeachment is a farce, and everyone knows it.

The Democrats have impeached Trump for 'abuse of power' and 'obstruction of Congress', insisting his guilt is beyond doubt. But the truth is that the evidence [so far] isn't all that damning.

Yes, Trump probably misused his executive power in fishing for dirt on Joe Biden in Ukraine. But no, that probably doesn't reach the bar of 'high crimes and misdemeanours' necessary for impeachment – not unless you're pathologically opposed to Trump.

Impeachment is meant to be an emergency measure for removing bad men from office. Yet even the Founding Fathers worried that it could become a political football. One of them, Alexander Hamilton, even warned that the instrument could become 'regulated more by the comparative strength of parties than the real demonstration of innocence or guilt'.

How right he was. Trump was impeached in the House because that chamber has a Democratic majority. Even though the Democrats may delay sending the case to the Senate, it's unlikely that the Republican-controlled body will do anything but acquit him.

This whole charade may go on for months, but it will only make Trump's supporters and enemies ever more angry with each other

This whole charade may go on for months, but it won't do anything to preserve American democracy. Quite the opposite: It will only make Trump's supporters and enemies ever more angry with each other.

At a rally on Wednesday, Trump held court to thousands in Michigan. 'It doesn't really feel like we're being impeached,' he told them, prompting whoops and cheers.

He's right too. So-called 'impeachment inflation' – three of the last nine presidents have faced articles of impeachment, compared to just one of the previous 36 – has rendered the process increasingly meaningless.

To see just how self-serving it has become, we need only look back to 1998 and hear Nancy Pelosi's response to the impeachment of Bill Clinton. She called it 'a hatchet job on the presidency'. The House, she added, is 'not judging the president with fairness, but impeaching him with a vengeance'. Fast forward 20 years, the same accusation can be neatly applied to Nancy.

Yet on Wednesday, the prize for self-righteousness went not to Pelosi but to Joe Kennedy, grand-nephew of JFK. To justify his vote, he pretended he was addressing his children, Ellie and James.

'Let the record show that we did not let you down. I love you. Listen to your mom. I'll be home soon.' It would be touching if it wasn't so emetic.

Luckily, most Americans see through such cant. As the crusade against Trump goes on, polls suggest more voters oppose impeachment than support it. In swing states, support for the President has increased just in time for his re-election campaign.

Democrats are sniggering to themselves now. But by the end of next year they may not be laughing.