A family have praised the Royal Australian Navy after they were evacuated by helicopter from raging bushfires.

The Tytherleigh family were planning to stay at their country motel on Saturday as the Tianjara blaze ripped through the south coast of New South Wales.

But with westerly winds blowing the flames directly in their path, Lindsay Tytherleigh and his son Kaylem were advised it would be safer to flee the blaze.

A family have praised the Royal Australian Navy after they were evacuated by helicopter from raging bushfires. Pictured: Members of the Tytherleigh family are escorted from the HMAS Albatross 808 Squadron Flight line by Leading Seaman Aircrewman Ben Nixon and Rural Fire Service employee Dwayne Graham

Royal Australian Navy Aircrewman Leading Seaman Ben Nixon of 808 Squadron assesses the Tianjara bushfire

With Leading Seaman Aircrewman Ben Nixon and Rural Fire Service employee Dwayne Graham, the 808 Squadron patrolled the area before landing at Sinclairs Country Retreat.

The father-and-son duo rushed towards the helicopter and were greeted by Mr Graham about 2.30pm, The Daily Telegraph reported.

'He said are you aware that your property is in the direct fire path,' Mr Tytherleigh said.

While the family were 'prepared' with water, Mr Tytherleigh admitted it was 'eerie and spooky' amid plumes of dark smoke.

'They said it was our choice but in their opinion, we should go with them then,' he said.

Mr Tytherleigh said it happened 'so quickly' they barely had a chance to think about fleeing and accepted the evacuation offer.

Rural Fire Service employee Dwayne Graham (left) and Royal Australian Navy Aircrewman Leading Seaman Brendan Menz (right) view the Tianjara bushfire

Mr Frank Delaney and Mr Warren Usher of Yalwal, NSW is assisted after being evacuated from his remote rural property to the east of the Moreton National Park

'I have to take my hat off to those guys. I'm so happy to pay my taxes, they were angels,' he said.

Mr Tytherleigh said the 'professional' asked for the phone numbers of their neighbours Ian and Kim, who also chose to be evacuated.

The families were then safely dropped in Nowra, where there were refreshments and snacks.

Their property survived the fires without damage.

The 808 Squadron worked with the NSW Rural Fire Service over the weekend, to conduct daytime search and rescues as well nighttime fire mapping.

'808 Squadron's assistance to the local communities of the NSW South Coast is part of the Australian Defence Force's support to Emergency Management Australia to assist with firefighting efforts in NSW, QLD, WA and SA since 8 November 2019.'

The 808 Squadron worked with the NSW Rural Fire Service over the weekend, to conduct daytime search and rescues as well nighttime fire mapping