A former butler to the royal family has revealed the secrets to being a good host this Christmas - from dress codes to how you should best set the table.

Grant Harrold, who was the royal butler between 2005 and 2011, has served Prince Charles as well as Princes William and Harry over the years, along with their many guests.

According to Grant, the top rule for being a good host is that you should make sure everyone feels comfortable in your home.

A former butler to the royal family has revealed the secrets to being a good host this Christmas - from dress codes to how you should best set the table (Grant Harrold pictured)

Grant Harrold, who was the royal butler between 2005 and 2011, has served Prince Charles as well as Princes William and Harry over the years (Prince Charles, Prince William, the Duchess of Cambridge and the Duke and Duchess of Sussex pictured in 2018)

'So say that someone makes a mistake or get something wrong, you'd never tell them off or say anything, you've got to be very relaxed,' Grant told Nine Honey.

The ex butler also said you should avoid going 'overboard' with decorations to ensure that your guests feel relaxed - as they don't want to feel as though they are on a 'runway at Heathrow' when they're staying with you.

Similarly, dietary requirements should always be checked ahead of time - to ensure the host is familiar with any allergies, intolerances and preferences before arrival.

According to Grant (pictured), the top rule for being a good host is that you should make sure everyone feels comfortable in your home

How to set the table like a royal * Step one: Centre your plate and add the dessert cutlery first. * Step two: Working from the outside, in, continue with the cutlery for the main course and finally the entree. * Step three: Put the bread plate to the left of the main plate and all drinks (hot or cold) on the right. * Step four: The white wine glass goes above the start knife and the red wine glass goes to the left of that. * Step five: The water glass goes to the right of the white wine glass.

'You can be as formal or informal as you wish but make sure your guests know they have to adhere to the dress code,' Grant told the publication.

He said it's not a good idea to be unclear about whether your guests should be wearing black tie or Christmas jumpers.

The table is the main focus of any Christmas entertaining - and so it must be done properly if you want to be a good host.

Grant said you should always start by centring your plate and adding the dessert cutlery.

Follow this with cutlery for the main course, and finally the entree.

'The bread plate belongs to the left of the main plate and all drinks (hot or cold) go on the right,' Grant said.

Grant said there are specific rules for setting the Christmas table, and you should always start with the plates and cutlery - moving from the outside or dessert cutlery inwards (the Queen and Prince Charles pictures on December 19 2019)

If you are setting the table with wine glasses, then make sure the white wine glass is above the starter knife and the red wine glass is to the left of that with the water glass right of the white wine glass.

You should finally pre-empt any potential issues between guests, and sit them accordingly with friends and people they get on with.

This will help to ensure things run smoothly over Christmas dinner.

Grant (pictured) previously revealed the secrets to the perfect cup of tea, explaining that the milk should always be added after the tea and you should stir backwards and forwards

Grant's secrets to the perfect cup of tea * Step one: Pour freshly brewed tea from a teapot. * Step two: Add the milk, always after the tea. * Step three: Stir the drink back and forth and never in a circular motion. * Step four: Sip - don't slurp - from the cup.

Grant previously revealed the secrets to the perfect cup of tea.

According to the butler, tea should always be poured from a pot rather than made in a single cup.

His four-step method starts with pouring freshly brewed tea from a teapot; stage two is adding milk after the tea.

Step three is to stir the drink back and forth - not in a circular motion, and the final stage is to sip - not slurp - from the cup.