She has been slowly rising through the acting ranks in hopes of becoming just like her famous father.

And on Thursday night, Jason Donovan's daughter Jemma almost stole the spotlight away from the iconic Neighbours star on the red carpet at Chicago The Musical in Melbourne.

The rising star, 19, was the spitting image of Jason, 51, as she supported her dad who is performing in the show.

Like father like daughter? Jemma Donovan, 19 (left), was the spitting image of her famous Neighbours star father Jason Donovan (right) on Thursday evening as she supported him at the opening night of Chicago The Musical

Jemma wore a pretty blue dress for the event and accessorised with a white clutch, matching strap sandals and let her long golden locks flow past her shoulders.

She also posed alongside her grandfather, Terrence Donovan, and mother, Angela Malloch, who was also there to support her husband.

In July, Jemma continued her family's legacy as she appeared on Neighbours as Harlow Robinson - carrying on the same family name as her father's character.

Supportive family: She also posed alongside her actor grandfather Terrence Donovan (pictured)

Family affair: And her mother Angela Malloch (pictured left) was also on hand to support her husband, Jason

She revealed her dad burst into tears when he discovered she landed a recurring position on the long-running soap as she spoke about relocating to Melbourne from London.

Speaking to British breakfast program Lorraine, she detailed her father's emotional reaction to her new stint to host Lorraine Kelly, 59, saying: 'My dad cried when he found out I got the role.

'He was so happy for me. He’s a great supporter, I love having him by my side', she gushed.

It runs in the family: Jemma (pictured left on set) revealed her dad burst into tears when he discovered she landed a recurring position on the long-running soap Neighbours after his famous appearance with Kylie Minogue in the 1980s

Screen star Jason - who is also father to 17-year-old Zac and Molly, seven, with his wife Angela - shot to fame on the soap as Scott Robinson in the 80s before kicking off a music career.

In the show, his character married Charlene Mitchell, who was played by Kylie Minogue, and the duo ended up dating in real life from 1984 to 1989.

The Spotless actress is the third member of the family to star on the soap, as Terence also appeared in Neighbours, playing Doug Willis in several spells from 1990 to 2016.