The Duchess of Cambridge’s mother, Carole Middleton, crossed swords with her business partner this week — though it was all in jest.

Carole, 64, enacted a play fight with Steven Bentwood, the chief executive of the Middleton family firm Party Pieces, during the office Christmas lunch.

Not missing an opportunity to plug their wares, they each wielded the company’s 99p inflatable space sabre to tie in with the latest Star Wars venture.

Carole is a woman of many talents, but this is the first time she has ever been referred to as a ‘Jedi master,’ which is how she was described on the video.

The Duchess of Cambridge’s mother, Carole Middleton, crossed swords with her business partner this week — though it was all in jest

Carole, 64, enacted a play fight with Steven Bentwood, the chief executive of the Middleton family firm Party Pieces, during the office Christmas lunch

Carole is a woman of many talents, but this is the first time she has ever been referred to as a ‘Jedi master,’ which is how she was described on the video

He long ago exchanged the acclaim of pop stardom for the contemplative life of a Church of England vicar. And this week the Rev Richard Coles (above) has faced perhaps the greatest test of his faith — in humanity

Cruel conmen target radio vicar after his partner dies

He long ago exchanged the acclaim of pop stardom for the contemplative life of a Church of England vicar.

And this week the Rev Richard Coles has faced perhaps the greatest test of his faith — in humanity.

For not only has Radio 4’s Saturday Live host Coles, 57, just suffered the heart-breaking loss of his civil partner and fellow clergyman, David Coles, but he has also had to contend with a fraudster intent on exploiting David’s death.

The conman set up a fake fundraising page online, posing as David’s mother — Irene Oldham.

As soon as Coles became aware of the intended scam, he sent a warning to his followers on social media. ‘SCAM ALERT,’ it began. ‘Someone has set up a gofund page for @RevDavidColes’ funeral in his mother’s name. It is a scam, please ignore.’

Despite the anguish of having to deal with the fraudsters, Richard tells me: ‘Thanks to everyone who acted so quickly to close it down. Whoever was responsible for this must be in a desperate way, in one way or another, and I hope they sort themselves out.’

Not only has Radio 4’s Saturday Live host Coles, 57, just suffered the heart-breaking loss of his civil partner and fellow clergyman, David Coles (pictured together), but he has also had to contend with a fraudster intent on exploiting David’s death

Coles, who announced this week that David had died aged just 42 after a protracted illness, says he is also dealing with a ‘small but lively correspondence’ from supposed Christians who ‘wish me to know that D is in hell’ and that ‘I will follow’.

While the condolence letters Coles has received have been ‘99.9% loveliness’, he is treating the exceptions with exemplary detachment. ‘I am right now an expert in pain, the real kind,’ he explains, ‘and these are paper darts among the incoming, and just leave me mildly curious about the state of mind of the writer.’

Prior to his calling, Richard was a member of pop group The Communards. Ordained in 2005, he became vicar of St Mary’s Church, Finedon, in Northamptonshire. It was there that he and David, whom he met in 2007, lived with their four dachshunds.

Prior to his calling, Richard was a member of pop group The Communards. He is pictured above with the group's singer Jimmy Sommerville

M&S model Oliver Cheshire is worried social media encourages people to buy into ‘fast fashion’. ‘I try to recycle more clothes,’ he tells me. ‘The Instagram world makes you think you can only wear an outfit once and then you have to throw it away.’

Sensitive snowflakes would ban Ab Fab, says Jennifer Saunders

Jennifer Saunders claims she never could have made Ab Fab now because audiences get offended far too easily.

‘You say the wrong word and people are down on you, whereas before you could generally make fun and everyone realised you were making a joke.

Jennifer Saunders claims she never could have made Ab Fab now because audiences get offended far too easily. ‘You say the wrong word and people are down on you, whereas before you could generally make fun and everyone realised you were making a joke,' she says. (Pictured right, in the show with Joanna Lumley)

'I don’t think we could make half of Ab Fab nowadays,’ says Saunders, 61, who co-wrote the BBC show. She adds the landscape of comedy has changed dramatically.

‘It’s just different now, I think. It’s harder to make jokes. People seem so sensitive about everything.’

Serena's a smash with Mike Tyson

Seven-time Wimbledon champ Serena Williams is a force to be reckoned with on and off the court.

The tennis star, 38, revealed her pugilistic skills this week when she worked out with a punchbag under the watchful eye of former world heavyweight title-holder Mike Tyson.

Serena Williams revealed her pugilistic skills this week when she worked out with a punchbag under the watchful eye of former world heavyweight title-holder Mike Tyson

‘I don’t want to get in the ring with this GOAT [greatest of all time], much love and respect,’ the boxer joked online after giving her some tips.

The pair were at the Mouratoglou Preseason in Florida, the annual sports camp organised by Williams’s coach.

Could she be our Lady in Washington? It seems Boris Johnson’s big majority increases the likelihood of Antonia Romeo being made the next British ambassador to America.

High-flying Romeo, currently top civil servant at the trade department, is a zesty piece of work and got to know Boris when he was Foreign Secretary. I am told that the Prime Minister is a ‘great admirer’.

Romeo, 45, courted fashionistas and chief executives as consul-general in New York, the flash metropolitan world that Donald Trump prefers to stuffy Washington.

Stone me! Rocker Keith makes 76

Getting married on your birthday is one way to ensure you never forget a wedding anniversary.

Just ask Rolling Stones guitarist Keith Richards, who celebrated turning 76 and 36 years’ marriage to his model wife Patti Hansen, 63, this week.

Getting married on your birthday is one way to ensure you never forget a wedding anniversary. Just ask Rolling Stones guitarist Keith Richards, who celebrated turning 76 and 36 years’ marriage to his model wife Patti Hansen, 63, this week

Theirs is one of rock ’n’ roll’s most enduring romances, after they met at the famous New York nightclub Studio 54 in the 70s and married on his 40th in 1983.

Speaking about the moment he first set eyes on Patti, Richards has said: ‘When Patti and I first met, it was just . . . boom. There was life before Patti and life after.

‘We just clicked and she rescued me from, shall I say, some dark periods.’