She's preparing for the birth of her first child with fiancé Jamie Horn.

And Sheridan Smith looked simply delighted as she arrived alongside her beau at Piers Morgan's Christmas party in London on Thursday evening.

The actress, 38, covered her blossoming baby bump in a monochrome checked jacket, which she wore over a basic black form-fitting T-shirt.

Beaming: Sheridan Smith looked simply delighted as she arrived alongside her beau at Piers Morgan's Christmas party in London on Thursday evening

Sheridan teamed her look with skinny jeans and a pair of heeled boots, while adding a pair of huge hoop earrings but otherwise kept her accessories to a minimum.

The Gavin and Stacey star swept her blonde tresses back into a stylish quiff, and opted for a dramatic make-up look including a slick of red lipstick.

Jamie looked handsome in a black quarter zip which he wore over a white T-shirt and teamed with a pair of black jeans and boots.

Smiley: The actress, 38, covered her blossoming baby bump in a monochrome checked jacket, which she wore over a basic black form-fitting T-shirt

Glam: Sheridan teamed her look with skinny jeans and a pair of heeled boots, while adding a pair of huge hoop earrings but otherwise kept her accessories to a minimum

Sheridan confirmed she is expecting her first child earlier this month with a social media post.

Sharing messages from adoring fans, Sheridan posted one message reading: 'You're going to be such an amazing, beautiful mummy to a very lucky little boy', while another penned: 'So happy for you and your beautiful family'.

Sheridan sparked speculation that she was pregnant last month after she lamented her 'morning sickness' on social media, and finally confirmed the news with a snap of a blanket which she captioned: 'Baby Smith-Horn'

Sheridan also took to Twitter to confirm the news that she was expecting, as she posted about awaiting her 'most important role to date.'

Blonde beauty: The Gavin and Stacey star swept her blonde tresses back into a stylish quiff, and opted for a dramatic make-up look including a slick of red lipstick

Casual cool: Jamie looked handsome in a black quarter zip which he wore over a white T-shirt and teamed with a pair of black jeans and boots

Mummy-to-be! Sheridan confirmed she is expecting her first child earlier this month with a social media post

I'm pregnant! Sheridan confirmed that she was expecting her first child when she took to Instagram to post a snap of a baby blanket

She wrote: 'Super excited for 2020, gonna finally get to work with a producer I admire hugely! But first, my most important role to date..' along with emojis of a pregnant woman and a woman cradling a newborn baby.

Sheridan also took to Instagram to post a snap of a baby blanket that had been personalised with the surname 'Baby Smith-Horn.'

The star was clearly thrilled by the prospect of becoming a mum as she took to social media to share the sweet blanket she had been gifted.

Sharing messages from adoring fans, Sheridan posted one message reading: 'You're going to be such an amazing, beautiful mummy to a very lucky little boy'

Exciting! Sheridan also took to Twitter to confirm the news that she was expecting, as she posted about awaiting her 'most important role to date'

She wrote: 'Super excited for 2020, gonna finally get to work with a producer I admire hugely! But first, my most important role to date..' along with emojis of a pregnant woman and a woman cradling a newborn baby'

Speculation mounted earlier this year, at the Floating Festivals event, where she was said to have announced that she has a 'baby on board.'

As reported by The Mirror, Sheridan announced: 'I've got a baby on board', before joking about 'this morning sickness lark'.

She added: 'I've got buckets in each wing and trainers so I can run. I'm very out of breath. I've got all these new symptoms, so sorry!'