Bindi Irwin has revealed exactly what she hopes to do with her fiancé Chandler Powell immediately after they tie the knot in 2020.

Speaking to New Idea magazine on Monday, the 21-year-old spoke said that she and her wakeboarder beau were thinking about feeding crocodiles at Australia Zoo after the ceremony.

'We all keep joking that our first thing as man and wife will be feeding the crocodiles,' she mused.

Future: Wildlife warrior Bindi Irwin, 21, has revealed what she hopes to do immediately after her wedding to fiancé Chandler Powell next year

Later in the interview, Bindi said that she and Chandler were already thinking about children, but added that babies was still 'a way away'.

'I think it's a way away right now, but when it does happen. I can guarantee you they'll have their own Khaki because Khaki is not just a colour, it's an attitude.'

Bindi also spoke about how her brother Robert, 16, will have a large part to play in the wedding ceremony.

She is a wildlife warrior after all! Speaking to New Idea magazine on Monday, the 21-year-old spoke said that she and her wakeboarder beau were thinking about feeding crocodiles at Australia Zoo after the ceremony

Not only will he walk her down the aisle, but the youngster will most likely make a speech at the reception, Bindi divulged.

'Robert is very strong and he'll help me hold it together. He takes everything so seriously and always does such a good job with everything,' she said.

It comes after Bindi revealed how she will be honouring her late Crocodile Hunter father Steve on her wedding day.

By her side: 'Robert is very strong and he'll help me hold it together. He takes everything so seriously and always does such a good job with everything,' Bindi said

Speaking to People magazine, Bindi said: 'I really want to include Dad on the day and make sure that he is with us in some way.'

She explained to the publication: 'We'll be able to all get up as a little family and light a candle in his honour and share a few words on what an amazing dad he was and still is.'

Bindi was eight-years-old when her late father Steve died after a stingray barb pierced his chest during a 2006 trip for a documentary he was filming.

Icon: Bindi is the daughter of the late Crocodile Hunter, Steve Irwin. Here: 2002

Tragedy: Bindi was eight-years-old when her late father Steve died after a stingray barb pierced his chest during a 2006 trip for a documentary he was filming. Here: 2002