Newcastle Jets be warned - Perth Glory's lanky defenders have been given a taste for goals and are hungry for more.

Glory have rocketed from last spot into fifth on the back of two straight A-League wins.

Perth started the hot streak with a 3-0 win over Melbourne City, before following it up with a 2-0 triumph over the Wanderers.

Three of those five goals have come from defenders, with Tomislav Mrcela heading home in the win over City, before Alex Grant and Gregory Wuthrich did the damage against the Wanderers last week.

The 10th-placed Jets bled goals in last week's 4-0 loss to Melbourne City.

Now they will not only have to contend with the likes of Bruno Fornaroli, Diego Castro, and Chris Ikonomidis, but also a Glory defence eager to score more goals.

"As a defender when you score a goal, you feel dangerous on every set piece after that," Mrcela said.

"That's what we have now as defenders and we need to keep going with that momentum.

"Next game - during corners - we have a belief that we can score again."

Not only are the defenders scoring goals for fun, but they have also kept consecutive clean sheets.

It's been a welcome relief after Glory conceded at least a goal per game during the opening eight rounds.

As much as Glory's defenders have enjoyed scoring goals, it's the clean sheets that they have truly treasured.

"That's like scoring goals for us. For Bruno scoring goals is for me a clean sheet," Mrcela said.

"We have if not the best, one of the best trios up front. So we know we have goals, and we will score goals when we play well.

"But we have to defend as a team. If we get clean sheets, we're winning games, that's for sure."

STATS THAT MATTER

*Perth Glory have lost only two of their last 24 A-League games against the Newcastle Jets (W17, D5) and are undefeated in their past five meetings (W4, D1) across which they've kept four clean sheets.

*Perth Glory have won 13 of their last 15 A-League games against the Newcastle Jets at HBF Park (L2).

*Glen Moss (Newcastle Jets) has conceded 14 goals this A-League season, three more than his Expected Goals Faced on Target suggests he should've - the largest negative disparity of any goal keeper in the competition.