James Corden might just regret asking Melissa McCarthy to step into his shoes while he took the night off from hosting The Late Late Show.

Not that she wasn't funny. Indeed the comic provided some laugh out loud moments as she covered for Corden, providing the perfect replacement.

Joined by her friend and fellow comic actress Allison Janney, the two shared their 'cut scenes' from the season's biggest movies - Cats, Star Wars and Little Women.

Too funny: Melissa McCarthy breastfeeds baby Yoda in a cut scene from War Of Stars in a skit from her the comic's spot guest hosting The Late Late Show With James Corden

'He's cute, but he's a biter': Melissa nails the mom jokes as Allison Janney looks on in sympathy

And the result was hilarious, with Ghostbusters star Melissa coughing up a hairball as she played a flea-invested cat during Wednesday's show.

'Cats, cats, we're both cats,' she and Allison sang, wearing full feline makeup.

'There are all kinds of kitty kitty cats.'

Not quite getting the message: The action is repeatedly cut as producers beg the women to reconsider making a fake light-saber noise

Melissa then told the audience they wrote the song themselves, adding that Cats multi-award winning composer Andrew Lloyd Webber was 'jealous' of the song, and explaining that is why their performance was cut.

With Allison claiming she didn't know who made the final cut of the movie, an unseen interviewer listed the film's huge stars - Judi Dench, Taylor Swift, Idris Elba, Jennifer Hudson, Rebel Wilson and Sir Ian McKellen.

The actresses responded with blank faces - getting a loud laugh from the audience when they said to the suggestion 'James Corden': 'Now you're just saying crazy words together'.

Miaow! Ghostbusters star Melissa coughed up a hairball as she played a flea-invested cat during Wednesday's show

'Andrew Lloyd Weber is jealous' Melissa then told the audience they wrote the song

Tackling Little Women, the pair were the giants in the room as they drank tea beside a truly 'little woman'.

They made polite conversation as their miniature companion sobbed, before banging their heads on the ceiling as they tried to 'get out of here'.

'It's not our fault if people don't understand our art,' Melissa told the camera, while Allison added of the nearly all female movie: 'I blame Hollywood sexism for them cutting us out of that one.'

Melissa then complained: 'Who cares about a classic period drama centering around strong, independent women that is just as relevant today as it was when it was originally written 130 years ago?'

A truly little woman: Tackling Little Women, the pair were the giants in the room as they drank tea beside a truly 'little woman'

Drink up: The pair do their best period drama impression

But the two saved the best for last, with their spoof take on their cut scene from an forgettable 'indie film', which they called 'War Of Stars'.

We then saw the two battle with light-sabers, all the while making the classic light-sabre noise. The action is repeatedly cut as producers beg the women to reconsider making the fake noise.

Finally they seem to catch on, before Melissa cuts the action because she needs to 'feed the baby'.

The baby is Yoda, who she holds to her breast, and complains 'he's cute, but he's a biter.'

The mom joke provokes belly laughs from the audience, with the mother of two perfecting her half-agonized expression.