Her friend's tattoo ended up infected and with uneven lines, the woman said

Most other Redditors were in agreement the woman was in the wrong

When the friend asked for a recommendation, she gave the name of a man who 'works at Subway during the day and gives tattoos from his garage'

A woman has confessed to taking revenge to the next level by sabotaging a friend's new tattoo — and now the friend's new body art might be infected.

Redditor tattooedthrowaway1 said she purposefully recommended the worst tattoo artist she knew to the friend, whom she knew was secretly plotting to copy her own original ink.

The friend took her recommendation and walked away with a tat that is 'cheap' and 'f**ced up.'

Spiteful: A woman has confessed to taking revenge to the next level by purposefully recommending a bad tattoo artist to a friend (stock photo)

In the post, the woman wrote: 'My most recent tattoo is a tattoo that I designed with my husband. We got matching ones for our anniversary. It is super personal.'

She recently showed the tattoo off to a group and friends, and noticed how one friend in particular, whom the woman wasn't close with, showed a special interest in the design.

'[The friend] even took a picture of it which I thought was strange but I let it slide,' the woman wrote, adding: 'Let’s call this girl Sarah.'

The Redditor explained that her friend 'Sarah' had no tattoos that she knew of, but she then heard 'through the grape vine' that she was considering getting a matching design to her own ink.

'Honestly I suspected this. She told a couple of friends of mine the design, and for some reason, didn’t think that they would tell me. But here comes the crazy part, she comes to me and asks me for a recommendation for an artist,' the woman wrote.

'She specifically wanted one that wasn’t too expensive.'

Before giving her a name for a specific tattoo artist, the Redditor attempted to get her friend to detail exactly what design she wanted to get done. But the woman remained 'coy' about her tattoo.

In the wrong: Commenters said the woman was in the wrong for making the bad recommendation on purpose

Bad decision: The woman decided to give the bad recommendation because her friend copied her design, but people still thought it was wrong

Backlash: Most commenters were in agreement the woman was an 'a**hole' for her decision

'She was really coy with me and told me that she had not finished thinking about it yet,' the Redditor wrote.

The lack of transparency encouraged the woman to recommend the 'worst tattoo artist' she knew whom she previously got 'two joke tattoos' from that turned out poorly.

'He works at Subway during the day and gives tattoos from his garage,' the woman continued.

I knew she wouldn’t do her proper research and check him out, and she didn’t. She went and got her cheap tattoo from Bubba, and it is f***ed up

'I knew she wouldn’t do her proper research and check him out, and she didn’t. She went and got her cheap tattoo from Bubba, and it is f***ed up.'

Not only are the lines uneven on the tattoo, but it has already blown out and there is concern it might be infected.

The woman who suggested the tattoo artist and her husband thought this was hilarious, but her friends didn't quite agree.

'She’ll be ok, she’ll just have a really really s****y version of my tattoo. I think it’s what she deserves.

Most commenters were in agreement that the Redditor who shared the post was an 'a**hole' for suggesting a tattoo artist she specifically knew would do a terrible job on the design, especially because of its permanence.

'Tattoos can be dangerous,' one commenter wrote. 'You should have told her about the significance of the tattoo. It would have been just as easy to not give her a recommendation.'

Another person wrote: 'You're a grown adult. You could've just told her you had a problem with her copying your tattoo.'