Kate Garraway and her husband Derek Draper couldn't keep their hands off each other as they turned up to Piers Morgan's Christmas party on Thursday night in London.

The couple showed they're still as loved up as ever, with Kate, 52, only recently back from her stint on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!

Their PDA was perhaps an act of defiance, after Kate's Good Morning Britain colleague Piers took a low swipe at her spouse's looks while she was in the jungle.

Kiss me! Kate Garraway and her husband Derek Draper couldn't keep their hands off each other as they turned up to Piers Morgan's Christmas party on Thursday night in London

Piers, 54, said of Derek, 52: 'If I'd known the bar was that low, I'd have had a crack myself!'

But Kate and Derek seemed to laugh off this remark, having turned up to the party in the first place, and by snogging for all to see.

Kate continued to show off her jungle diet weight loss in tiny black leather hotpants, black stockings and black pumps.

She wore a red Christmas jumper with 'Sleigh What?' emblazoned across the front of it.

PDA: The couple showed they're still as loved up as ever, with Kate, 52, only recently back from her stint on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!

Don't look Piers: Their PDA was perhaps an act of defiance, after Kate's Good Morning Britain colleague Piers took a low swipe at her spouse's looks while she was in the jungle

Mwah! The couple shared several tender kisses as they attended the star-studded Christmas party on Thursday night

Piers, 54, said of Derek, 52: 'If I'd known the bar was that low, I'd have had a crack myself'

No hard feelings: But Kate and Derek seemed to laugh off this remark, having turned up to the party in the first place, and by snogging for all to see

Chic: Kate continued to show off her jungle diet weight loss in tiny black leather hotpants, black stockings and black pumps

She added a sweeping trench coat in a festive red to complete the Chrismassy look.

Kate wore her blonde locks loosely around her smiling features, which she highlighted with soft touches of natural make-up.

Piers admitted he used to often butt heads with co-host Kate's husband Derek when he was a press chief for Labour and Piers was editor of the Daily Mirror.

Writing in his column for Event magazine, Piers took a swipe at Derek, saying: 'It's been no surprise to see my GMB colleague Kate Garraway being such a trouper on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!

Mwah: The presenter couldn't resist packing on the PDA and kissing her husband Derek

Wow: Kate looked sensational as she showed off her I'm A Celebrity weight loss after living in the Australian jungle for two weeks

In the spirit: She wore a red Christmas jumper with 'Sleigh What?' emblazoned across the front of it

Guest list: Kate was also seen on the arm of Richard Arnold, also of GMB fame

Lady in red: She added a sweeping trench coat in a festive red to complete the Chrismassy look

Sleek: Kate wore her blonde locks loosely around her smiling features, which she highlighted with soft touches of natural make-up.

'She's always been a great laugh on and off camera, and more importantly, has always been able to laugh at herself.

'After Kate announced she was marrying her husband Derek Draper, with whom I used to lock horns when he was a Labour spin doctor and I was editor of the Daily Mirror, I emailed her to say: "If I'd known the bar was that low, I'd have had a crack myself."'

However, Piers insisted Kate did not take offense to his comment and found it so hilarious that she put it on menu cards at her wedding to Derek.

Kate and Derek have been married for fourteen years, with the former lobbyist cheering his wife on for the duration of her stint in the jungle.

Co-stars: Kate posed for photos with her Good Morning Britain co-star Richard Arnold as they put on a giddy display

Locking horns: Piers admitted he used to often butt heads with Kate's husband Derek when he was a press chief for Labour and Piers was the editor of the Daily Mirror

In an array of sweet and revealing interviews, the couple discussed their union, with Derek admitting that he feared she was 'a high-maintenance TV bimbo' while she suffered a cancer scare at the start of their relationship.

Speaking in October about being set up he admitted he debated cancelling their first date before they began dating before their union was rocked when she discovered a benign cyst in her kidney, which left her hospitalised.

Kate, who was married to Ian Rumsey from 1998 to 2002, met Derek when they were set up by mutual friend, then-political editor of GMTV Gloria De Piero.

The I'm A Celeb star told The Times: 'One day, as the sun was rising, she said, “I’m having an epiphany. You and Derek Draper.” I was, like, “Who?”

Good sort: Piers insisted Kate did not take offense to his comment and found it so hilarious that she put it on menu cards at her wedding to Derek

Romance: Kate and Derek have been married for fourteen years with the former lobbyist cheering his wife on for the duration of her stint in the jungle

'Derek had just moved back from America, having left politics and retrained as a psychotherapist, and she thought we’d be perfect for each other...

'She set up drinks with a group of people at Claridge’s. Derek arrived thinking it was a date and that I was being incredibly cool by ignoring him.'

Derek then admitted he was relieved he went on the date as Kate dispelled all the myths he believed of dating a TV personality.

The media personality and the former lobbyist, who share kids Darcey, 13, and William, 10, tied the knot in September 2005, just three years after her divorce from former husband Ian.

Home time: Kate was seen getting a taxi home as she vowed to make her GMB hosting duties on Friday after sleeping in on Thursday following her I'm A Celebrity jet lag

Reunited: Kate ran into Derek's arms when he greeted her on the bridge after her elimination from the jungle

Things were thwarted by her cancer scare, which came after she’d given birth to son Billy. She said: 'You’re in the clinic, looking round at everyone thinking, ‘Why shouldn’t it be me any more than anyone else?’. It’s really scary.'

As they settled into married life, Kate revealed to You Magazine: 'Sex now is far more enjoyable than when I was in my 20s...

'Looking back on my early romantic life, I was more worried about what impression I made on my dates than what I thought of them...

'I would approach them as though they were job interviews, trying to wow the man so that he would ask me out again and I got the 'job'. In hindsight, this attitude carried on into my relationships.'

Speaking on Lorraine, Derek - who was joined by their kids Darcey and William in Australia - also gushed about the presenter's 'knockout' appearance following her recent two-stone weight loss, enthusing he's fallen in love with her 'all over again'.