Ridding football of racism is becoming much more challenging because some supporters are 'becoming more stupid', according to ex-Manchester City star Yaya Toure.

The midfielder, who is currently plying his trade in China for Qingdao Huanghai, has spoken to FIFA about ways to combat discrimination in the sport after a series of sickening incidents over the last few months.

Mario Balotelli threatened to walk off the pitch after he was subjected to monkey chants by Verona supporters while playing for Italian side Brescia in November.

Yaya Toure believes that some fans are 'becoming more stupid' in the fight to battle racism

Meanwhile, Inter forward Romelu Lukaku has suffered numerous racist taunts since arriving at the club this summer - including from Cagliari fans who aimed abuse towards him as he prepared to take a penalty against them in September.

England players were also preparing to abandon their match against Bulgaria in October after several black players were targeted for abuse by home fans.

Toure, who played for Manchester City for eight years, believes the situation is getting worse and claimed that the behaviour of some fans is 'becoming more stupid than before'.

'I've had a chat with FIFA because this is something very important that we have to look at carefully,' he said while in Doha for the Club World Cup, as quoted by Goal.

'I know it's going to be hard work and difficult because the way to win this case is going to be very long.

Mario Balotelli threatened to walk off the pitch after he was racially abused by Verona fans

Romelu Lukaku was targeted by Cagliari fans before he scored a penalty in September

'The fans, the people, are now becoming more stupid than before. This thing is shocking because we are in 2019 now. In 2020 and 2025, we have the kids coming through – what are we going to do? We can't continue like this.'

There have been a number of racism storms in Italy this year, with Italian outlet Corriere dello Sport publishing a front page titled 'Black Friday', with Lukaku and Chris Smalling pictured.

And this week paintings used to promote Serie A's drive to tackle racism sparked a backlash after they displayed three monkeys.

Toure, now 36, admitted he may call it a day earlier than he had planned so he can devote more time to banishing racist behaviour from the game.

England came close to abandoning their match against Bulgaria in October after racist chants

He added: 'When I saw those things, I want to play for one more year maximum, but I have to retire to join FIFA to work on that because these things hurt a lot.

'To have the feeling and to see those things is just unbelievable. I don't know how people can trust.

'I know the organisations FIFA and UEFA are doing a lot just to carry on things and making things happen.

'We can talk about education because the fans are in a different way. You can sanctions the clubs and make the field empty.'