As pavlova grazing boards continue to wow the internet, a mother has created a lamington Christmas dessert that can be whipped up in just 15 minutes - and it's set to rival the popularity of the meringue.

The Melbourne-based woman shared her festive recipe on social media, calling the cake both 'easy' and 'delicious'.

'A 15 minute hack using two packets of lamington fingers, Coles cream whipped with two tablespoons of castor sugar and one teaspoon of vanilla bean paste and some jam, fruit and mint leaves to decorate,' she wrote.

The result is a neat circle of lamingtons stuck together in a circle with jam and cream and a pile of blueberries, strawberries and red currants in the centre.

A Melbourne-based woman shared her festive recipe on social media, calling the cake both 'easy' and 'delicious' (pictured)

Asked how she served such a delight, the woman said she used a knife to give each person two lamington fingers with cream and spooned a pile of berries on top.

It received high praise by those who hadn't thought of the simple concept before.

'This is an amazing idea. I've never seen anything like it, it's brilliant,' said one satisfied reader.

The result is a neat circle of lamingtons stuck together in a circle with jam and cream and a pile of blueberries, strawberries and red currants in the centre

Asked how she served such a delight, the woman said she used a knife to give each person two lamington fingers with cream and spooned a pile of berries on top (pictured)

'Woah that is so pretty and looks spectacular for how simple the hack actually is. I'm mind-banking this idea,' said another.

It comes just a day after Canberra-based baker Shalini, the founder of Swish Biscuits, shared her own holiday dessert idea on Facebook.

'We had an early family Christmas today and I had to share my dessert idea - a pavlova grazing board,' she captioned a photo of her extravagant creation.

Creative mums have been sharing their take on the pavlova grazing board after Canberra-based baker Shalini, the founder of Swish Biscuits , shared her idea on Facebook (pictured)

Shalini filled a wooden tray with mini meringues and surrounded them with little jars filled with passionfruit, nutella, homemade raspberry sauce, salted caramel and lemon curd

Shalini filled a wooden tray with mini meringues and surrounded them with little jars filled with passionfruit, nutella, homemade raspberry sauce, salted caramel and lemon curd.

She completed the board with lots of fruit, coconut, chocolate and fresh mint.

'Everyone gets to make their own custom pavs just the way they like it,' she wrote.

Although many will choose to buy store-bought meringues from the supermarket, Shalini made her own meringue nests with eight egg whites, caster sugar, cornflour and apple cider vinegar.

How to make the perfect meringue nest for your pavlova grazing board Whip up 8 egg whites until thick and foamy then slowly beat in 1 1/2 cups caster sugar until thick and glossy Mix together 1 1/2 tsp cornflour with 1 1/2 tsp apple cider vinegar and beat into the meringue Draw 8cm circles on baking paper as a template (12 circles split between two trays) Spoon on the meringue then bake in a slow oven at 120C for an hour Switch off and let them cool down with the oven door slightly ajar Source: Swish Biscuits Facebook

This woman made a similar board but added apricots, M&Ms and pineapple to the toppings

Since, others have created their own versions surrounded by brownies, cakes, cheese, dips and Christmas cake

Since, others have created their own versions surrounded by brownies, cakes, cheese, dips and Christmas cake.

The trend is the most recent of many Christmas dishes taking social media by storm, with a mother recently wowing foodies with her two-ingredient $3.30 vanilla slice.

Using Aeroplane's famous $1 'Vanilla Dessert Mix' and a box of $2.30 Frozen Puff Pastry sheets, available from Woolworths, the Australian mum baked a tray of slices in the shape of Christmas trees.

The recipe, which was posted anonymously in a cooking group on Facebook, received widespread praise, with many calling it the perfect addition to a Christmas dessert platter.

The trend is the most recent of many Christmas dishes taking social media by storm, with a mother recently wowing foodies with her two-ingredient $3.30 vanilla slice (pictured)

After cutting the ready made pastry (left) into shapes with a tree-shaped cookie cutter, bake until golden brown and blend the dessert mix (right) with full fat milk until thick and creamy

What mistakes to people make with their cheese boards? * Side tracking from a cheese board and adding meats and olives * Going to heavy on the rainbow look instead of focusing on a theme * Leaving dips in packaging * Using cheap, supermarket crackers * Using poor quality, cheap cheeses * Using a plastic, colourful board

'Made Christmas Tree Vanilla Slices today...so delicious! Lost count how many I ate,' the mother captioned her post.

'I used Aeroplane Dessert Mix and puff pastry. I'll be adding this to my dessert platter on Christmas Day. So easy to make!'

After cutting the ready made pastry into shapes using a tree-shaped cookie cutter, separate the pieces on a baking tray and bake until golden brown.

While the pastry bakes, blend the dessert mix with full fat milk until the mixture is thick and creamy.

Once the pastry is cool, scoop a generous dollop of custard onto half the shapes, pressing a second tree on top and smoothing spillages around the edges with a butter knife.