As a dietitian, Lyndi Cohen always ensures her kitchen is stocked full of all her favourite pantry ingredients - including peanut butter, pickles, popping corn kernels and chocolates.

And the Sydney nutritionist has offered a look inside her pantry - as she reveals exactly what she keeps in her home every time.

Speaking to Daily Mail Australia, the SunRice health and wellness ambassador listed the essentials she believes every household should have on hand.

Sydney nutritionist Lyndi Cohen (pictured) has offered a look inside her kitchen pantry

The staples dietitian Lyndi Cohen always stocks in her pantry Legumes

Tinned tomatoes

Brown rice

Tuna

Pickles and olives

Seeds and nuts

Peanut butter

Dates

Dark chocolate

Onions

Popping corn kernels

'I think every home should try to build a pantry that's jam-packed full of wholesome and balanced food choices,' Ms Cohen told Daily Mail Australia.

'There are no foods you should completely avoid, as the key to a healthy pantry is making sure that you have the right balance of all food in there. Nothing should be off limits.

'You don't need to cut any foods out of your diet unless you don't like the taste or your body doesn't respond well to the food. You have to find out what works for you as a family and stick to that. You'll feel energised and happy when you're eating the best foods for you.

'A well-stocked pantry is key to saving you time and money, whilst still providing healthy, delicious meals.'

First up, the author of The Nude Nutritionist stacks out her top shelf full of legumes, chickpeas, lentils and black beans in reusable glass jars.

The dietitian said she always ensures her kitchen is stocked full of all her favourite pantry ingredients - including peanut butter, pickles, popping corn kernels and chocolates

What does she usually keep in her pantry? Seeds and nuts: I always have a huge range of seeds and nuts, as I love to add them to salads, smoothies or use them when I'm baking. They add a beautiful crunch as well as healthy fats and protein. Peanut butter and dates are always on hand to make healthier sweets. Dark chocolate: I almost always have a block of dark chocolate in my pantry because I don't believe you have to cut out the foods you love in order to be healthy. Balance is key. Onions: They're another easy way to add more vegetables into meals.

'Legumes are by far the healthiest and most cost-effective food to have in your pantry. Chickpeas, lentils and black beans can be used for soups, salads and curries – the list is endless,' she said.

She said tinned tomatoes are another 'absolute essential' for her.

'I keep about four tins on hand at all times. They're budget-friendly and so easy to add to meals for flavour and they serve as an extra serve of veggies,' she said.

Ms Cohen said she loves brown rice because it's a 'brilliant, healthy wholegrain'.

'SunRice Microwave Quick Cups Brown Rice are an easy way to add extra fibre to your dish and they're conveniently portion sized. Brown rice is my favourite variety,' she said.

'Wholegrains like rice, quinoa, freekeh and oats along with seeds, nuts and legumes make up 70 per cent of my pantry ingredients.'

First up, the author of The Nude Nutritionist stacks out her top shelf full of legumes, chickpeas, lentils and black beans in reusable glass jars

Ms Cohen said chickpeas and lentils are by far the healthiest and most cost-effective food to have in your pantry - and can be used to whip up a delicious curry dish (pictured)

She said she always ensures her pantry is stocked with tinned tuna because it's a 'great way to add protein to a meal or enjoy on its own as a snack'.

'The range of flavours now available means you can get even more creative with your cooking,' she said.

Finally, she always have pickles and olives on hand because they're 'another easy way to pack more flavour into your meals'.

'They can also be enjoyed as a light snack if you're feeling peckish throughout the day,' she said.

Ms Cohen said if she's craving something salty, she likes to pop corn kernels into popcorn, and add some Italian herbs and salt for flavour.

'Popcorn is a delicious, budget-friendly and high fibre snack,' she said.

'For sweet cravings, she loves eating medjool dates spread with a little peanut butter and a sprinkle of salt.

Ms Cohen said if she's craving something salty, she likes to pop corn kernels into popcorn, and add some Italian herbs and salt for flavour

To stock your pantry like a dietitian, Ms Cohen said there five simple things you can do to ensure you eat healthy, delicious meals, while saving time and money.

'Fill your pantry with flavour,' she said.

'Vinegar and other condiments, like Dijon mustard, are great for quick, homemade salad dressings. Or use them to make a yummy marinade for proteins or vegetables. Don't forget to stock up on spices as well.'

She suggested investing in health fats such as extra virgin olive oil.

'Oils that are healthy fats like extra virgin olive oil are great for sautéing, baking, roasting vegetables, making salad dressings, and more,' she said.

Ms Cohen said wholegrains are cost-effective and easy to bulk in bulk.

'Whole grains such as brown rice, quinoa and oats are a good source of carbohydrate and fibre to include in every meal,' she said.

She said you should keep your pantry fully stocked every time to avoid having to rush to the shops to grab an ingredient you forgot to get mid-cook

She said you should keep your pantry fully stocked every time to avoid having to rush to the shops to grab an ingredient you forgot to get mid-cook.

'A food pantry is only as useful as the items you have on hand. Replace items as you use them, so you always have them whilst cooking. As you prepare new recipes, you'll naturally expand your pantry with more flavours and ingredients,' she said.

'My pantry is always filled with canned foods as I find them one of the most affordable ways to eat healthy. From fruits and vegetables to seafood and meats, canned foods are packed with nutrients and can be a great addition to any meal.'

She said the 'perfect pantry' should be one that 'excites you when you open it'.

'Thinking about what I was going to have for dinner or if I had enough food to prepare a nutritious dinner used to make me feel anxious,' Ms Cohen said.

'I never felt like I had anything to eat. Perfecting your pantry means you'll always be confident that you can rustle up a meal that's nutritious and full of flavour, in no time at all.'