Not a very Merry Christmas for Love Island star Caroline Flack, who will appear in court on Monday, charged with assault by beating

JAN MOIR Not a very Merry Christmas for Love Island star Caroline Flack, who will appear in court on Monday, charged with assault by beating.

This follows an incident at her London home, involving her boyfriend, tennis player and model Lewis Burton. Although it was he who initially called the police and was then treated in hospital, he is being supportive, insisting that Caroline is 'the most lovely girl, loyal and kind'.

A charming thing to say, in any circumstances, but verging on the heroic here.

However, after talks with ITV2, which produces the hugely successful Love Island franchise, Flack has agreed to stand down after presenting the dating show since 2015.

Inside the fruity Christmas pudding of her professional life, Caroline has just lost the prize plum. Indeed, at this moment, her whole career looks like shredded suet.

Is this entirely fair? Flack has yet to be convicted of any crime, yet she seems to be being judged far more harshly by TV bosses than, for instance, Ant McPartlin.

He somehow managed to keep all his high-profile jobs with ITV after causing a road accident and being convicted of drink-driving in 2018.

Caroline Flack and boyfriend Lewis Burton. Although it was Burton who initially called the police and was then treated in hospital, he is being supportive, insisting that Caroline is 'the most lovely girl, loyal and kind'.

McPartlin was banned for 20 months and fined £86,000 — the UK's highest ever penalty for being over the limit.

Of course, it is true that no one was killed or seriously injured in the incident, but that was no thanks to him.

However, after the usual meek invocations about seeking help for his addictions and then a short spell of off-screen penury — standard celebrity punishment — McPartlin was back alongside Dec hosting I'm A Celebrity and appearing on Britain's Got Talent. As if nothing had ever happened.

Such a rosy outcome seems unlikely for Caroline Flack, despite his being the more serious misdemeanour. Does this suggest a gender imbalance; that female celebrities are punished more harshly than their male counterparts for any perceived transgressions? Feminists have been quick to support Caroline, as they suggest that this is indeed the case.

After talks with ITV2, which produces the hugely successful Love Island franchise, Flack has agreed to stand down after presenting the dating show since 2015

Ant McPartlin (left) was back alongside Dec (right) hosting I'm A Celebrity and appearing on Britain's Got Talent. As if nothing had ever happened

But had the sexes been reversed with a male celebrity allegedly assaulting his girlfriend in similar bloody circumstances, then his career would have been over, ceased to be, expired and pushing up daisies quicker than you could say 'Johnny Depp'.

Yet woman as victim, no matter what happens, is a comforting and commonplace narrative in today's society; a place where everybody is a nobody until they have suffered.

There is a scene in the hit film Marriage Story, where divorce lawyer Laura Dern explains to her client Scarlett Johansson that as far as the family courts are concerned, fathers are allowed to be imperfect, to drink wine and fall short as a parent, whereas mothers are not.

The man can be a mess, is the message, and it doesn't matter. But the women will be judged on a higher moral basis.

'You will always be held to a different, higher standard. And it's f***ed up, but that is the way it is,' says Dern. That may be so, but the truth is that there are completely different rules in televisionland to the ones that apply in real life; ones that have very little to do with gender and everything to do with power and money.

Let's be honest. The element of domestic abuse in the charge against Caroline Flack makes it completely unfeasible for her to continue to present a relationship show about couples coupling up and lovers loving.

Love Island is a global hit for ITV Studios, a lucrative franchise that makes millions and connects delighted advertisers to its high-spending millennial audience.

After two former contestants committed suicide in separate incidents, there have been concerns — regarding mental health support and other issues — about the show.

Ant McPartlin gets out of his car following a drink driving accident in which he crashed into two other cars. McPartlin was banned for 20 months and fined £86,000 — the UK's highest ever penalty for being over the limit

TV bosses determined to protect the valuable brand simply cannot risk the corrosive whiff of violence, instability and scandal that clings to their presenter at the moment.

So bye bye, sweet Caroline. For the moment at least. After a short spell in celebrity jail perhaps she will be back to bewitch once more.

Why does Ant McPartlin still have his job while Caroline Flack has lost hers?

It is not about gender, but all about how big a star you are — and they don't come much bigger than Ant & Dec, who have won the National Television Award as best presenters for 18 years running.

The public absolutely adore the Geordie duo, who are pivotal to the success of their shows, who can make or break new formats and who are absolutely irreplaceable.

On the other hand, Caroline Flack is incidental to the success of Love Island and could easily be replaced by about half a dozen comely presenters.

So it is about everything but being a girl, and it would be good if that were acknowledged, rather than turned into another phoney battle on the sex war front.

BA is now endured, not enjoyed

British Airways is now just above Ryanair in customer rankings. What a tragedy that this once great company has sunk so low in the public estimation.

Taking a BA flight was once something to enjoy, even in economy. The airline had individual seat-screens, a terrific selection of films and food that wouldn't hospitalise you within hours of landing.

Now strikes, budgetary cuts and lowering standards mean that a BA journey is something to be endured rather than enjoyed. And even the film selection is rubbish.

Who is in charge there now? Greta Thunberg?

BBC flies into a Stormzy

Outrageous that Stormzy should tell primary school children that Boris Johnson was 'a very very bad man' — and that teachers stood around and let him do it without intervening.

Now the BBC has asked him to read a Christmas Day Bible verse — of course they have.

The British grime star, 26, will recite from Luke's Gospel in a BBC One programme over the festive season. This is despite his controversial political intervention at his former primary school in Thornton Heath, when he described the Prime Minister as 'sinister' to young children.

He also said 'Boris is like the big, bad wolf — he's gonna come down and blow your house up. That's right, I don't like Boris.'

No. Stormzy has always pledged his support for Jeremy Corbyn. He is entitled to his views — but not to foist them on impressionable children.

One would have hoped this might have him banned from the airwaves. But no, the BBC has given him a prime slot instead.

Her Maj was majestic

The Queen looked wonderful at the State Opening of Parliament yesterday

The Queen looked wonderful at the State Opening of Parliament yesterday. She is 93 years old, but as indomitable and capable as ever, promenading though the parcel of rogues, immaculate in her lovely hat.

You can count on Queenie to behave properly while all around are letting the side down.

A furious Jeremy Corbyn looked like a bad-tempered halibut and walked in front of the Prime Minister, refusing to speak to him or offer the usual pleasantries.

I don't even want to mention former Speaker John Bercow, who has turned into a cheap panto turn and will shout 'Order Order' on any old television show or, indeed, in a school hall if you give him sixpence and a cup of tea.

Sending cards is such a fuss!

How nice of Charles Spencer to share a photo of his 24-foot Christmas tree at Althorp. I mean it! At this time of year there is nothing nicer than a bit of voyeuristic tree porn — and his is a handsome classic.

It is tall and traditional, hung with simple red baubles and freighted with presents down below — just the way I like my men.

The best thing of all is that Charles — if I may be so familiar — has not over-decorated.

How nice of Charles Spencer to share a photo of his 24-foot Christmas tree at Althorp. I mean it! At this time of year there is nothing nicer than a bit of voyeuristic tree porn — and his is a handsome classic

Instead, he has let the natural beauty of his tree shine through, and that is a joy in this overdone, tinselly age.

Anyway, how are your decorations going? I'm usually fully festooned, in every sense of the word, by December 1, but not this year. All I have up is a single string of lights.

I'm just not into the groove yet. And for the first year ever, I am contemplating not writing Christmas cards. It is not just me. The habit of sending posted greetings is falling out of favour, with many of us now shunning Christmas cards in favour of using social media and messaging apps to spread festive cheer.

I'd rather have a card than an almost vowel-less text wishing me a MRRY XMAS — and if that is all that is on offer, I'd rather have nothing at all.

On that note, I'd like to wish all my readers a very Merry Christmas.

I hope that your trees stay green and that all your dreams come true!

Hurrah for Willow Woolhouse, the ten-year-old girl who has achieved every badge possible in the Beaver and Cub scouts.

Willow had to learn to ride a horse, cook the perfect omelette and master a martial art among her myriad tasks.

Some cool kids might think her endeavours boring and old-fashioned, but I can only admire her grit and focus.

How wonderful to have achieved all this, plus the life skills and new levels of self-confidence that must accompany her triumph. A marvellous achievement — and much better than

Hurrah for Willow Woolhouse (pictured), the ten-year-old girl who has achieved every badge possible in the Beaver and Cub scouts

How ironic that the John Downey case relating to the Hyde Park bombing of 1982 was concluded in court on the very day Tony Blair was wringing his hands about the 'shame' of the Labour Party and their voting collapse in the election.

Do you know what was a much bigger shame? The fact that when Downey and his bloodthirsty IRA colleagues were getting their 'comfort' letters to protect the Good Friday agreement, Blair shamefully hadn't arranged reciprocal understanding for British servicemen, many of whom are still under threat of murder charges.

It was and still is a disgrace.