President Donald Trump's campaign is harvesting his impeachment for campaign cash – hauling in $5 million on the day House Democrats secured the historic vote for two articles against him.

But Trump isn't the only one benefitting from an intense national focus on the events in Congress. Widow Rep. Debbie Dingell of Michigan, who Trump attacked for backing impeachment even though he authorized lowering flags to half staff upon the death of her husband, Rep. John Dingell, has an online appeal of her own.

'We urgently need 500 supporters to step up right now and donate as a way of saying: President Trump, you are not going to get away with bullying and insulting our congresswoman,' said an appeal by the Michigan Democrat, who succeeded her husband, the 'Dean' of the House who served 59 years in Congress.

$$$: Donald Trump's campaign texted possible donors on the back of impeachment, turning up the pressure as the aftermath continued to reverberate around Washington D.C.

President Donald Trump's campaign raised $5 million amid impeachment Wednesday, his campaign said

'Now more than ever, we need to stand with Debbie,' the email says, according to the Hill. 'Please rush a donation to this campaign today so we can stand up to these repulsive attacks.'

Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale tweeted about 'incredible fundraising numbers!' on Wednesday.

He said Trump 'has raised over 5M dollars (still growing) today as Americans use their wallet to show support against @SpeakerPelosi’s impeachment hoax!'

House Rep. Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) (R) talks to Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-MI) (L) after an event at the Rayburn Room of the U.S. Capitol December 19, 2019. Dingell is fundraising off Trump's attacks on her. Many Trump fundraising attacks focus on Pelosi

Dingell's husband, the late John Dingell, served in the House for 59 years and authored major legislation on health and safety

Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale has focused on impeachment in cash appeals

He said Trump raised $5 million in a day

Trump has texted out fundraising appeals based on impeachment throughout the month. On Tuesday his camp called it 'OPEN WAR.' On Wednesday, the appeal said: 'I just stepped off AF! for the rally & want a list of all donors in the next hour.'

Trump has focused on Speaker Nancy Pelosi in his appeals. 'The Nancy Pelosi and her brainwashed party voted to WRONGFULLY IMPEACH President Trump. Democrats have been building towards this moment since the 2016 Election,' he wrote in a Wednesday appeal.