Juvenile court judge is fired after he invited friends over to his chambers after hours where they spent the evening smoking, drinking, 'playing cards and getting away from their wives'

323rd District Judge Alex Kim, fellow judge Shane Nolen and four other men were recorded at the courthouse on the night of August 24

Security confronted the men around 1.20am after they walked in and out and a police report claims they were 'playing cards and getting away from their wives'

After vehicle left the parking lot around 1.49am a cop said it was 'very smoky in the judges [sic] chambers'

Smoking is banned indoors in Fort Worth and only Kim is seen smoking on video

Kim fired Tarrant County Juvenile Court judge Nolen last month over an unspecified matter

On Wednesday Kim said he 'had some friends over' didn't do anything illegal

A Texas judge has been fired after he was caught on camera playing poker, smoking and drinking inside his chamber with a disgraced juvenile court judge who had been ordered to stay away from children. Judge Alex Kim and friends were 'playing cards and getting away from their wives' according to a security officer who found it was 'very smoky in the judges [sic] chambers'. Kim was seen in surveillance footage puffing on a cigar and dumping the contents of an ashtray outside the Juvenile Justice Center in Fort Worth. The 323rd District judge was with former Tarrant County Juvenile Court judge Shane Nolen, who had been ordered to stay away from children under 16 unless supervised by an adult, and who Kim later fired in November for an unspecified reason. 323rd District Judge Alex Kim, Shane Nolen and four other men were recorded at the courthouse between 7.30pm Friday August 24 and 1.30am August 25

Star-telegram Privacy Policy

Security guards who confronted some of the six men in total, said Kim held a silver can with unidentifiable contents during their 30-second encounter around 1.20am on August 25.

He was with two men seen holding red cups, one containing a dark liquid, Star Telegram reported.

The group entered the building around 7.30pm and a vehicle left 1.49am.

On Wednesday Kim said he 'had some friends over' but wasn't doing anything prohibited or illegal.

Kim fired Tarrant County Juvenile Court judge Nolen last month over an unspecified matter. But Nolen is running for a seat as a district judge

Another woman who said she has a daughter with Nolen was granted a restraining order against him in Tarrant County after she said he had violated his Denton County case buy living with the girl

He is the only one seem on camera smoking in the public building in Fort Worth, which is banned.

According to the state Constitution, the judge player poker casts 'public discredit upon the judiciary or the administration of justice'.

Kim fired Nolen last month but the reason has been withheld.

However it was recently report Nolen continued to hear cases.

Nolen is also running for a seat as a Tarrant County District judge.

Despite being told to stay away from children in a case related to his five-year-old son, Nolen refused to take a mental health test stating to child welfare that he's 'too busy to do all this since he is a sitting judge'.

His son was removed from his mother's home in June after she tested positive for drugs including heroin, reportedly took the boy to a drug house and smoked marijuana around him at home.

Nolen was denied custody in August but is allowed short visits and attended eight court-ordered parenting classes but had an 'arrogant attitude', NBC 5 reported the leader as saying.

Another woman who said she has a daughter with Nolen was granted a restraining order against him in Tarrant County after she said he had violated his Denton County case buy living with the girl.

Kim is the only one seen on camera smoking in the public building in Fort Worth, which is banned. He said Wednesday he simply had some friends over