He's enjoying some time with friends ahead of the holidays.

And Leonardo DiCaprio indulged in a few french fries while dining al fresco with Camila Morrone and Lukas Haas in Aspen, Colorado.

The 45-year-old actor bundled up in a heavy winter coat as he stopped for lunch on the patio of The White House Tavern before hitting the slopes.

Let's eat! Leonardo DiCaprio indulged in a few french fries while dining al fresco with Camila Morrone and Lukas Haas in Aspen, Colorado

The Academy Award-winning star sported an all-black ensemble complete with a leather jacket and hooded sweatshirt.

He kept with the monochrome theme wearing loose black slacks paired with thick combat boots.

Adding even more protection from the harsh elements, Leo sported his hood over a baseball hat and kept his eyes shielded from the bright sun with a circular pair of mirrored sunglasses.

Cozy: The 45-year-old actor bundled up in a heavy winter coat as he stopped for lunch on the patio of The White House Tavern before hitting the slope

Ready for anything: The Academy Award-winning star sported an all-black ensemble complete with a leather jacket and hooded sweatshirt

Friends forever: Leo looked happy to be outside as he enjoyed a sandwich and the company of the ones he loves the most

Yum: The table shared a basket of french fries as they dined outdoors

Leo looked happy to be outside as he enjoyed a sandwich and the company of the ones he loves the most.

Camila kept warm in the chilly temperatures underneath a long grey peacoat paired with a heavy, olive green scarf.

She covered up in a pair of dark beige joggers and pounded the pavement wearing white sneakers.

Dine and dash: Adding even more protection from the harsh elements, Leo sported his hood over a baseball hat and kept his eyes shielded from the bright sun with a circular pair of mirrored sunglasses

Cozy: Camila kept warm in the chilly temperatures underneath a long grey peacoat paired with a heavy, olive green scarf

Classic: She covered up in a pair of dark beige joggers and pounded the pavement wearing white sneakers

Snow season: Her chocolate brown hair was hidden underneath a grey beanie and she sported a pair of classic wayfarer sunglasses

Eating out: Lukas rocked a dark green peacoat and sweat pants for an afternoon with his buddy

Her chocolate brown hair was hidden underneath a grey beanie and she sported a pair of classic wayfarer sunglasses.

Lukas rocked a dark green peacoat and sweat pants as he followed closely behind his friends.

The 43-year-old actor, who has long been by Leo's side as one of his closest confidants, lit up and smoked a cigarette after lunch.