A volunteer firefighter who raped his daughter and one of her friends to make child porn will spend 11 years behind bars.

The man, who can not be named to protect the victims' identities, was sentenced at Rockhampton District Court on Thursday for 19 vile offences including maintaining sexual relationships with children.

He was also convicted of three counts of producing child exploitation material, three counts of rape, one of attempted rape, ten counts of indecent treatment of children and two of possessing firearms.

The court heard that the father-of-three, from Queensland, abused the girls over two years while they were aged nine to 12, and also attempted to rape another one of his daughter's friends.

The girls were subjected to forced sex acts over a two-year period while aged nine to 12 (stock image)

Crown prosecutor Samantha O'Rourke said the offences inflicted on the two girls included maintaining sexual relationships, playing strip card games, watching porn together, and showering with them.

He also touched them and performed sexual acts on them, forced them to touch him or perform acts on him and exposed his penis to them, the Morning Bulletin reports.

The attacks on his daughter's friends took place when they went to the house for sleepovers.

His crimes were discovered when the young girl that he attempted to rape told a school friend what had happened.

They reported the incident to their principal and a police investigation was launched.

When police searched his home in September 2017, they found a USB containing 102 photographs and six videos, a machine gun and Winchester rifle.

The man, aged in his 50s, was a volunteer firefighter and Army reservist before he had moved to QLD (stock image)

Thirty two of the photos depicted his daughter's friend who had been raped, and 17 featured another unidentified victim.

The man, in his 50s, denied any wrong doing when he was interviewed by police even once confronted with the seized evidence.

Defence barrister Maree Willey said her client had been 'unwilling and unable to give an explanation for his behaviour.'

Judge Michael Burnett, described the offending as 'a gross and disturbing litany of material' produced by the defendant of 'truly horrendous' events.

'This is a case that is far outside the norm,' Judge Burnett said.

The defendent, a former Army reservist, had sole-custody of two of his three children since 2008.