Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola is reportedly demanding 'sweeping changes' across the board at the club if he is to extend his current contract.

The Spaniard is believed to want three new additions in the summer, and could also bolster his coaching staff with the departure of Mikel Arteta to Arsenal officially expected on Friday.

The Athletic report that Guardiola is targeting at least one centre back as well as a left back - and a new forward could also be part of the club's spending spree.

Pep Guardiola is demanding 'sweeping changes' at Manchester City if he is to sign a new deal

Despite having hinted that he wanted several fresh faces in his ranks during the latter stages of last season, City instead recruited just two players during the summer.

Joao Cancelo was bought as a replacement for Danilo, who had requested to leave, and the Portuguese full back has recently been touted to make a loan switch to Valencia or Bayern Munich.

However, the same publication state that City sources are adamant Cancelo will instead remain at the Etihad.

And as well as strengthening the club's depleted back line, Guardiola is also thought to be weighing up a swoop for another forward - with the uncertainty surrounding Leroy Sane's future potentially triggering the big spenders to delve into the market.

The German winger is expected to return to action around early February, but has purportedly shown no indication he wishes to remain at City for a fifth straight campaign.

Guardiola is reportedly targeting at least one centre back, a left back and a new forward

Bundesliga giants Bayern Munich remain keen on signing the 23-year-old.

The Athletic also believe that the Citizens will promote Rodolfo Borrell to replace the outgoing Arteta, who is poised to become Arsenal's new manager, and there are no concrete plans to bring in a new assistant coach before the summer.

City are confident that Guardiola will honour his contract, which runs out in 2021, despite his wish for drastic changes.

Sportsmail had revealed earlier this month that the 48-year-old's deal, which was signed last year, included an agreement that Guardiola could walk away at the end of the current season should certain stipulations that satisfy the club be met.

The break clause ensures that if Guardiola did decide to leave, he would not be in breach of his contract. City officials believe that this will not be the case, however.