A mother of two who was sick of her 'grotty' old bathroom has revealed how she transformed the space on a budget in just two months.

Olivia White, from Melbourne, has been renovating her property for over seven years, but she had always pushed the bathroom down the to-do list because she knew it was going to be costly.

However, six months ago, the 29-year-old said her 'bathroom made the decision for us' as the tiles were falling off the wall and the whole thing was bordering on 'some serious water damage'.

A mother of two who was sick of her 'grotty' old bathroom has revealed how she transformed the space on a budget in just two months (Olivia White pictured)

Olivia White, from Melbourne, has been renovating her property for seven years, but she had always pushed the bathroom down the to-do list (bathroom pictured before)

But things got so bad in the bathroom that she knew they had to take matters into their own hands, and a little over two months later, the family have a beautiful new space (pictured after)

'Our only issue now was that we had no time to complete this project ourselves in a timely manner. As being without a toilet and shower for any period of time was going to be a nightmare,' Olivia wrote on her blog.

Taking matters into her own hands, Olivia said she started researching builders to help her with the project - contacting some 20 professionals for quotes.

'I also did a lot of research on what I wanted and priced up products from several different suppliers,' she said.

'I also did a lot of research on what I wanted and priced up products from several different suppliers,' Olivia said of the bathroom makeover (pictured after)

During the renovation, the mum of two (pictured with one of her kids) lived with her in-laws while overseeing all structural changes

Where Olivia's bathroom fittings come from * Reece * Highgrove * Bunnings Warehouse * Beaumonts * Burdens Bathrooms

The mum of two said the majority of her bathroom fixtures and fittings come from Reece, Highgrove, Bunnings Warehouse and Beaumonts.

She said she also used Burdens Bathrooms, who helped the mum to think of everything - including taps that turn away from the bath so her kids don't hit their heads while they're in the bath.

'Burdens also helped us to think about adjustable heights and detachable shower heads to make it suitable for the kids,' Olivia said.

She added that you have to think about all of the little things when renovating a bathroom or kitchen - so that you don't run into trouble down the track.

The mum of two said the majority of her bathroom fixtures and fittings come from Reece, Highgrove, Bunnings Warehouse and Beaumonts (sink pictured before)

For their vanity and sink, Olivia said she had custom pieces made by local businesses to give the bathroom some individual flair (pictured after)

What were some of the major costs of Olivia's bathroom? * Vanity: Ingrain Designs 'Northcliffe' Bathroom Vanity – $1979 * Sink: DLH Designs Round Concrete Sink in Smoke – $589 * Wall & Floor Tiles: Beaumont Tiles 'Belga Grey' in 60×60 – $32 per square metre * Feature Tile: Tile Cloud Fish Scale Tile 'Coral Bay' in Carrara Look Matte – $9 per sheet * Feature Light: Beacon Lighting 'Sculpt 1' Light Drop Pendant in Ash/Concrete – $67.50 (on sale)

For their vanity and sink, Olivia said she had custom pieces made by local businesses to give the bathroom some individual flair.

The vanity was made by a local family business, Ingrain Designs, while the sink was made by DLH Designs.

The entire project took Olivia and the professionals two months, during which time frame she said their family lived with their in-laws and oversaw production.

'Good things come to those who wait and we couldn't be happier with the finished product, especially considering we have such a small space to work with,' Olivia said.

'When we first bought this house we were [just] two young kids with big dreams, just not the bank accounts to match it.

'Every little bit of this house we've poured our blood, sweat and tears into and done what we could as we could afford it.'

'Good things come to those who wait and we couldn't be happier with the finished product, especially considering we have such a small space to work with,' Olivia (pictured) said

‹ Slide me › Olivia said that when she and her husband first bought their house, they were just 'kids' who didn't have the budget to deal with things (toilet pictured before and after)

Sharing some before-and-after photos of her bathroom online, blogger Olivia's fans and followers were impressed with the design (pictured after)

What are Olivia's tips for renovating a bathroom? • Do plenty of research on what you want. • Set your budget and work to that. • Manage the project yourself to save some dollars. • Consult with your trades and suppliers that what you want will work in your space. • Hunt around for good deals with suppliers. • Find good quality pieces that will last and are sustainably made. • Invest in a few statement pieces for a luxe look. • Good and open communication with your trades. • Be innovative about storage when working with a small space. • Make it practical and functioning for your needs.

Sharing some before-and-after photos of her bathroom online, blogger Olivia's fans and followers were impressed with the design.

'Great choices in colours and textures,' one person wrote.

'I wouldn't want to leave this house if I had that bathroom,' another added.

To read more from Olivia White, you can visit her blog here.