Cameron Smith surged back into contention for a third-straight Australian PGA Championship but he wasn't the only big mover on Friday at Royal Pines.

The Brisbane product had a bogey-free round of 65 to shoot to five-under and onto the first page of the leaderboard after beginning his defence with a "rubbish" 74 on Thursday.

It followed Adam Scott's five-under 67 earlier that day, a performance that handed him a share of the clubhouse lead at seven-under alongside Wade Ormsby before Anthony Quayle stormed home with 66 to go to eight-under.

China's Yuan Yechun could well best them all, sitting 10-under for the tournament and eight-under for the day through 12 holes.

Regardless, Smith and Scott will be in the mix this weekend as the former attempts to become the first man in more than 100 years to win three-straight Australian PGA titles.

Smith admitted last week's President Cup had drained him both physically and mentally but that an afternoon nap and swim at the beach had helped him bounce back from Thursday's torrid start.

"I knew what I had to do today to get back into it, I saw Scotty and those guys posted a score early," he said.

"I didn't play aggressive or anything, just did my stuff and walked away with seven birdies.

"It was tough yesterday, (because it was) so draining last week ... it's amazing what a day can do in the game of golf."

Beginning on the 10th, Quayle eagled the 15th and then finished with five birdies on his last six holes.

A good result would cap an incredible week for the Gold Coast local, who was married last Sunday.

Ormsby led by as many as three shots at Royal Pines early in the day before Scott tracked him down in another safe round that featured a 12-metre eagle putt, two more long birdies and just one bogey.

The pair are long-time friends and featured in a dramatic play-off at the Australian PGA Championship in 2014 eventually won by Greg Chalmers.

Chasing his first title in almost four years, Scott shot a five-under 67 on Friday but it could've been even better if any of his near misses dropped on a day where tricky pin placements meant aggressive golf was often too risky.

"I played safe, rolled a lot of nice putts, a lot went by the edge but I made a couple as well," he said.

"I had to really dial it in to get it close and ... it was a patient round and eventually I kind of wore the course down.

"After the bogey on four I just felt 'I need to get moving a bit here because two-under's not going to put me up there far enough."