England’s plans for their Test series against South Africa were plunged into disarray on Thursday when they were forced to downgrade their final warm-up match because of the sickness bug that has swept through the squad.

What should have been a meaningful first-class fixture against South Africa A here ahead of Boxing Day’s first Test in Centurion will be replaced by three days of little more than practice because England were worried they could not put out a full side.

Jofra Archer, Stuart Broad and Jack Leach were still laid low on Thursday by the flu-like symptoms that stopped them bowling on Wednesday against an Invitational XI, while Joe Denly was among other players affected.

England's plans for Test series in South Africa were in disarray after a bug affected the squad

That forced England to appeal for local help, with Cricket South Africa granting the request for Friday's game to be re-designated as a three-day friendly with only 11 players batting or fielding at any one time.

It means England will be able to control the workloads of their suffering bowlers rather than leaving them out of Friday's side, as they almost certainly would have been forced to do if they had to name an XI Friday morning.

So Broad and Archer, both certain starters in Centurion if fully fit, will now have at least another 24 hours to recover and will still have a chance to bowl in Benoni rather than being rushed into the first Test without any time in the middle in South Africa.

It is far from ideal but, to be fair, there is little more England could have done in the circumstances because it was they who were originally keen on a ‘proper’ first-class fixture ahead of their most important assignment of a crowded winter.

They cannot do anything about an illness that has also affected members of staff, notably fielding coach Carl Hopkinson.

Stuart Broad was also laid low but will now have at least 24 hours to recover for the first Test

But the situation has hardly been helped by scheduling that will see them undertake three tours this winter.

England spent just seven days at home after the long journey back from New Zealand before flying to Johannesburg. At least there was good news with the return to fitness of seamer Jimmy Anderson, who reported no reaction on Thursday to the 11 overs he bowled on Wednesday, and who has so far avoided the flu.

Now, as long as he gets through Friday’s game, Anderson is sure to return in Centurion for the first time since he was forced out of the Ashes last summer with a calf problem after bowling just four overs in the first Test.

‘It feels like a long time since I’ve played a competitive game, so to get some overs under my belt was very pleasing,’ said Anderson.

‘There was a bit of rust with the new ball but that’s to be expected having not played for four or five months. I’m just happy to be back out there.’

England's record wicket-taker Jimmy Anderson could feature in his 150th Test in Centurion

England’s record wicket-taker will be making his 150th Test appearance if he plays in Centurion and Anderson, 37, said in a Sportsmail interview last month that he wants to carry on at least until the next Ashes in two winters’ time.

‘I still want to do it, that’s part of the reason I worked so hard to get back,’ Anderson said on Thursday. ‘It’s something I love and I still feel I’ve got something to offer, so that hunger and desire to get back is very much still there.

‘Now I’m just trying to force my way back into the side. Watching from the sidelines was pretty difficult throughout the summer because you just want to be out there.

‘I’m hopeful I can get my fitness up to speed and be bowling well enough to be picked for that first Test.’