She has a passion for health and fitness, and often shares her gruelling workouts with her fans online.

And on Monday, cricket WAG Kyly Clarke showed off her incredibly ripped and slender figure in activewear after a sweat session at her local gym in Sydney.

Clad in a crop top and a pair of matching leggings, the 38-year-old flaunted her washboard abs.

Not an inch to pinch: Cricket WAG Kyly Clarke, 38, revealed her incredibly slender and ripped figure a crop top and leggings on Monday after a gruelling workout at the gym

The brunette beauty and former grid girl also added a pink sports bra underneath her exercise gear.

The mother-of-one had her long locks tied back and off her face in a high ponytail, and wore a hint of makeup, including foundation and eyeliner.

She completed her sporty look with white sneakers and a $2,000 Louis Vuitton handbag as she walked around with her headphones in.

Her tips and tricks: Kyly often shares her gruelling workout routine with fans online and said in June that she prefers 'full body workouts' and circuit training

Kyly - who is married to former cricketer Michael Clarke - often shares her gruelling workout routine with fans online.

She said in June that she prefers 'full body workouts' and circuit training.

At the time, she shared a video of herself completing circuits with resistance bands, skipping rope, weighted medicine balls and did exercises including squats and burpees.

'How connected are you with your body?' Kyly said online at the time.

Working hard! At the time, she shared a video of herself completing circuits with resistance bands, skipping rope, weighted medicine balls and did exercises including squats and burpees

Her man: Kyly is married to cricketer Michael Clarke (pictured)

'If you hate the exercise, that generally means it's the one you need to do more of.'

She previously told Kate Waterhouse about her diet, saying 'willpower' needs to kick in during Winter to avoid carb-heavy food.

'Coming to winter we always opt for the carb style meals and snacks and that's when determination and strong willpower needs to kick in,' she said.

'I love having warm dinners with chicken or fish and vegetables, foods that give you great nutrients. I always have snacks with me so I never have to pick up a bad one.'