UEFA could punish Braga following a complaint from Wolves about the treatment of their fans during last month’s Europa League tie in Portugal.

Wolves took about 6,000 fans to the match, which ended 3-3, with a large number contacting the club in the days that followed to express their unhappiness.

It was also alleged that some supporters - including children and older fans - were subjected to baton charges. Others said they were delayed from entering the ground until after the game had started, while there were also claims that phone chargers, flags, bags and food were confiscated.

UEFA will meet Braga officials to discuss handling of Wolves fans in their Europa League tie

Sportsmail understands UEFA officials have scheduled a meeting with Braga chiefs after considering Wolves’ concerns.

They are expected to look closely at the ticketing plan for the game, the security operation around it and the quality of the stewarding.

Both clubs qualified from the group stage of the competition, with Wolves drawn to face Espanyol - who are bottom of the Spanish top flight - in the last 32, the Molineux club’s first European knockout tie for nearly 40 years.

Meanwhile, Adama Traore expects to recover from a shoulder injury in time for Wolves’ trip to Norwich on Saturday.

Some fans were allegedly subjected to baton charges as Wolves and Braga drew 3-3

The winger - one of the Premier League’s form players - sustained the damage towards the end of Tottenham’s 2-1 win at Molineux last weekend and although he made it to the end of the game, he was in clear discomfort.

But Traore has eased fears he will miss the trip to Carrow Road and believes he will be ready to play. He will be a marked man once again, with Wolves growing increasingly concerned at his treatment by opponents following the games against Brighton and Tottenham.

Boss Nuno Espirito Santo said after the Spurs game, when Harry Kane, Toby Alderweireld and Eric Dier were booked for fouls on Traore, that the 23-year-old risked serious injury if he was not protected better by officials.

Peter Bankes will referee the game as Wolves look to bounce back from their first defeat in 10 games in all competitions.