What we do know is that Mikel Arteta is set to become Arsenal's new manager and is likely to be confirmed on Friday.

What can't be predicted is just how much rockier the relationship between the Gunners and Manchester City will become as the final negotiations for Pep Guardiola's assistant are hammered out.

There is a long-standing animosity between the two clubs stemming from dealings in the transfer market. Now the dislike has shifted from player acquisition to the management.

Mikel Arteta is expected to be announced as Arsenal's new manager by the end of the week

Pep Guardiola is reluctant to let Arteta go to Arsenal but admits he will be a good manager

While Guardiola didn't give much away in post-match remarks following City's 3-1 Carabao Cup win over Oxford United on Wednesday night, a City club source didn't hold back in a briefing to the press.

'It's surprising to hear that plans are being made by Arsenal to unveil our coach as their head coach on Friday, on the basis that no contact has been made by the club to discuss the matter,' they said.

It all suggests things could get a little spiky as the two sides sit down to put the finishing touches on a three-and-a-half year contract expected to be worth close to £5million-a-season.

It was interesting to note that former Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger was quick off the mark to express approval at the appointment of his former midfielder, given the hostility between the two clubs began during his tenure.

Even last year, before he stepped down as Arsenal boss, Wenger was aiming thinly-veiled barbs in City's direction as Alexis Sanchez closed in on his move to Manchester United.

The Spaniard played for Arsenal for five years and captained the side before joining Guardiola

Ex-Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger has given his seal of approval to Arteta's appointment

City had been in pole position to sign the Chilean at the beginning of the January 2018 transfer window but were gazumped by their Manchester neighbours, who paid through the nose to sign Sanchez.

'I respect Man United because they generate the money they pay to the players with their own resources,' Wenger said.

'Overall Man United are a club very well managed financially and of course as well on the pitch so that's why I don't have any problems with the money they pay.'

The obvious implication was that City weren't worthy of their seemingly limitless funding by Abu Dhabi and Sheikh Mansour.

It was this wealth that first irked Wenger and Arsenal as City picked off a number of their players in the years immediately following their transformative takeover.

Wenger had taken aim at Manchester City over their pursuit of Chilean Alexis Sanchez

Wenger made no secret of his distaste for Manchester City's wealthy Abu Dhabi backers

City bought striker Emmanuel Adebayor for £25m and defender Kolo Toure for £16m from Arsenal in the summer of 2009 as they assembled a team capable of challenging for silverware.

They then pulled off another double swoop in 2011 by signing Samir Nasri for £24m and Gael Clichy for £10m. Bacary Sagna followed on a free transfer in June 2014.

This migration of some of their best talents to City hammered home a harsh new reality for Arsenal, a long-standing powerhouse of the Premier League and top four regulars.

They simply couldn't compete with City financially following their takeover, with Wenger forced to work on restricted budgets following their move to the Emirates Stadium.

As City started winning silverware on a regular basis and Arsenal foundered, it didn't help that those who'd departed started rubbing their noses in it.

Emmanuel Adebayor is welcomed to Man City after completing a £25m move from Arsenal

Adebayor ran the full length of the pitch to goad the Arsenal fans after scoring against them

Objects were thrown from the away section as Adebayor performed a knee slide celebration

Adebayor blamed the behaviour of the Arsenal fans for his exit to City and suggested that they needed to sell him to raise funds.

And things escalated when Adebayor scored in a 4-2 win over Arsenal at the Etihad Stadium just a few weeks after his move, choosing to run the full length of the pitch to celebrate in front of the Arsenal fans.

Nasri's 2011 move was also marked with a bitterness, with the Frenchman joining Adebayor in having a pop at the Arsenal fanbase after making the move.

'Arsenal have good fans but not that passionate since they moved to Highbury,' Nasri told Manchester City TV upon his arrival there.

'City fans are really passionate. When we played against City, the crowd was amazing. That's what I want.'

Samir Nasri also took a swing at Arsenal's fans after completing his 2011 move to Man City

Nasri and Emmanuel Frimpong squared up when Man City played Arsenal in the League Cup

Accordingly, it was little wonder Nasri's every touch was jeered by Arsenal fans when City went to the Emirates in the quarter-finals of the League Cup.

On that same night, he had a bust-up with Arsenal's Emmanuel Frimpong, who had a far better performance than he did.

Perhaps memories of these incidents had a part to play in the collapse of Sanchez's move to City on the summer deadline day in 2017.

City had made an improved offer of £55m, plus £5m in add-ons, for the Chilean with the hours ticking down but when Arsenal's move for Thomas Lemar fell through, Sanchez was forced to stay put.

A blame game ensued between the two clubs. Arsenal argued that losing out on Lemar left them without the time to chase someone else.

Sanchez ended up an expensive failure at Man United having seen his City move collapse

But City retorted that they'd first expressed their interest in Sanchez three months earlier, leaving plenty of time to complete the deal and allow Arsenal to sign a replacement.

In the end, the chain of signings around Europe that would have seen Lemar come to Arsenal and therefore Sanchez to City was too complex.

So there is certainly plenty of history between the two clubs, meaning we shouldn't really be surprised by this latest friction over Arteta's move.

It's likely to happen soon enough, but at what further cost to this already rocky relationship between two of the Premier League's foremost clubs?