Emily Ratajkowski revealed that she had turned down a paid appearance in Saudi Arabia to support human rights laws.

The 28-year-old model declined an invite to the MDL Beast Festival in the Middle East which several other celebrities ended up attending.

The event was packed with famous personalities despite Ratajkowski's absence as the guest list included the likes of Sofia Richie, Winnie Harlow, Alessandra Ambrosio, Joan Smalls, Irina Shayk, Luka Sabbat, Armie Hammer and Ryan Phillippe.

No thanks: Emily Ratajkowski revealed that she declined an appearance at the recent MDL Beast Festival in Saudi Arabia, citing human rights laws

Citing her reason for not attending, the model explained: 'It is very important to me to make clear my support for the rights of women, the LGBTQ community, freedom of expression and the right to a free press.

'I hope coming forward on this brings more attention to the injustices happening there.'

The quote was provided to fashion Instagram Diet Prada, via fellow model Teddy Quinlivan, both of whom previously called out some of the celeb attendees.

Taking a stand: The 28-year-old said: 'It is very important to me to make clear my support for the rights of women, the LGBTQ community, freedom of expression and the right to a free press. I hope coming forward on this brings more attention to the injustices happening there'

Called out: The quote was provided to fashion Instagram Diet Prada, via fellow model Teddy Quinlivan, both of whom previously called out some of the celeb attendees

Turned down: Ratajkowski revealed to Quinlivan that she'd turned down a paid appearance

Diet Prada also claimed that 'six-figure sums were offered for attendance and geo-tagged posts.'

Many in attendance have faced some backlash on social media from fans calling out the tone-deaf nature of such an event in Saudi Arabia.

They cited last year's government-sanctioned murder of journalist Jamal Kashoggi, the arrest of women’s rights activist Loujain al-Hathloul and the outing of gay journalists, where homosexuality is illegal and punishable by death.

Selling out: Diet Prada also claimed that 'six-figure sums were offered for attendance and geo-tagged posts'

Backlash: Many in attendance have faced some backlash on social media from fans calling out the tone-deaf nature of such an event in Saudi Arabia

Star-studded event: Said attendees included the likes of Sofia Richie, Winnie Harlow, Alessandra Ambrosio, Joan Smalls, Irina Shayk, Luka Sabbat, Armie Hammer and Ryan Phillippe

The music festival is seen by many to be an attempt at changing Saudi Arabia's image.

Nicki Minaj previously backed out of her headlining performance at this summer's Jeddah World Fest, following pressure from human rights groups.

She said in a statement: 'After careful reflection I have decided to no longer move forward with my scheduled concert at Jeddah World Fest.

'While I want nothing more than to bring my show to fans in Saudi Arabia, after better educating myself on the issues, I believe it is important for me to make clear my support for the rights of women, the LGBTQ community and freedom of expression.'