Brexit

Get Brexit Done was promised by Boris Johnson, and this bill delivers it by putting into law the deal done with EU leaders last year. It includes new Northern Ireland arrangements, the divorce bill and rights of EU citizens. Rules out an extension of the ‘transition’ period beyond December 2020 to focus minds in Brussels on getting a trade deal done.

Post-Brexit

Bills setting out key policy decisions for after Brexit. Free movement is replaced by Australian-style points-based immigration and an NHS worker visa. Common Agricultural Policy replaced by a more environmentally-friendly system, while fisheries will be repatriated. Powers to set trade policy will be returned to London from Brussels.

Boris Johnson and Jeremy Corbyn pictured ahead of the State Opening of Parliament following the 2019 General Election

NHS

The new money – all £33.9billion extra of it – is going in anyway in the next four years, but a new law sends a signal to voters about the importance of the NHS to Mr Johnson, as well as making any funding cuts unlawful. Now begins the hard work of getting the Health Service to spend it effectively, improve output and fulfil other pledges on 50,000 more nurses and 40 hospitals in the next decade. A separate bill will establish a new patient safety watchdog.

Housing

Helping more people get on the housing ladder is a key focus for the next five years. As well as more affordable homes, a ‘first homes’ scheme will offer local people and key workers a 30 per cent discount on new properties. Government sources have also hinted at changes to planning law to encourage development while protecting the Green Belt.

Staff Rights

Law to stop restaurants keeping staff tips, give extra £1billion for childcare, set up a body to protect workers’ rights, and ensure unpaid carers have a statutory right to take a week off will help Mr Johnson show he is determined to help millions of blue-collar workers who voted for him for the first time.

Social Care

No bill because there isn’t a plan to solve the social care crisis yet. Instead, there is more money in the short term and a pledge to create a cross-party commission to produce a solution. But Downing Street officials know this big reform can’t be kicked into the long grass for years.

Internet

Forces web giants to clear terrorist material and child abuse images from their sites by putting them under a ‘duty of care’ enforced by a powerful new regulator.

Sentencing

Two bills will bring in longer jail terms. The first for terrorists will ensure those behind the worst offences will serve at least 14 years, ending release at the halfway point by ensuring all serve at least two-thirds. The second will also move the release point from half to two-thirds for the most serious and violent offenders.

The Prime Minister and Labour Party leader in the House of Lords at Westminster in London

Police

As well as putting the ‘police covenant’ into law – rules that protect officers – this will give them new powers to tackle unauthorised encampments by criminalising trespass. Lets officers seize property of travellers who occupy land without permission.

Trade Unions

An assault on the power of the RMT, whose rail strikes brought misery to millions of commuters. In future, all rail unions will be obliged to offer a minimum service level, even during a strike – and those that don’t will be liable for damages.

Spy Laws

Foreign spies would have to register with the Government or face jail to make it harder for them to operate in this country.

Broadband

All new homes to have fast internet, and the £1.8billion rollout of gigabit broadband across the UK.

Mr Johnson and Mr Corbyn walk through the Commons Members Lobby during the state opening on Thursday 19 December

Railways

Reverse some Beeching cuts, build Northern Powerhouse Rail between major cities and a Midlands Rail hub. Likely to include HS2 after a review of costs has been published.

Takeovers

New powers that allow ministers to scrutinise and block takeovers of major British businesses to protect national security.

Environment

Brings in legally binding targets for air pollution and an environmental regulator, and bans plastic waste exports.

Prisoners

Will prevent murderers and paedophiles being released if they refuse to disclose details about their victims – such as the location of their bodies or the names of those they attacked.

…And the rest

Building Safety Bill; Fire Safety Bill; Pensions Scheme Bill; Air Traffic Management and Unmanned Aircraft Bill; Windrush Compensation Bill; Thomas Cook Compensation Bill; Birmingham Commonwealth Games Bill; Domestic Abuse Bill; and the Divorce, Dissolution and Separation Bill.