This is the horrifying moment prosecutors say a military veteran pretended to be a police officer, getting into chase with sirens on, before shooting at another driver.

James Hoefert had a number of pieces of law enforcement equipment in his vehicle when he decided to follow the other motorist, according to officials in Albuquerque, New Mexico.

Shocking footage shows Hoefert also had two small children in his car at the time of the high speed chase and shoot out.

The two children can be heard crying as he screams expletives down the phone before the other driver rams his car and Hoefert opens fire.

In the bizarre video - recorded on Hoefert's dash cam - what appears to be a radio system, similar to the one used by police, hangs from the roof of his car.

He also have flashing lights, a siren and gun in the vehicle.

James Hoefert, pictured driving, chased the other motorist in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Shocking footage shows Hoefert had two small children in the back seats at the time

Hoefert, left, who is not a cop, used sirens and flashing lights during the chase. The other driver has been named as Nathaniel Jack, right. A warrant is out for his arrest

Hoefert can be heard making a call, telling the person on the end of the line: 'I am armed. I'm about to blast this guy in the face.

'I have two kids in the car and he's causing a lot of s***. He hit me again! He hit me again!'

The scary clip begins with Hoefert speaking to a neighbor who identified the other driver as a troublemaker, KOAT reports.

After the driver in the truck follows him Hoefert can be seen pulling out a gun and aiming it at the other motorist, later identified by police as Nathaniel Jack.

Hoefert, who looks like he could be an off duty officer because of his equipment, shouts: 'Get the f*** out.'

He then follows the truck, beginning the chase with his sirens and flashing lights on. The two race through Albuquerque at what appears to be high speed.

The footage shows Hoefert also appears to jump red lights in his pursuit of Jack.

When the truck stops Hoefert makes his first call before continuing the chase when the vehicle takes off again.

In an apparent call to law enforcement he tells an operator: 'I have a disgruntled driver, causing accident.'

'He's gonna hit me, he just hit me', he adds.

Hoefert was charged with shooting from a car, child abuse and using unauthorized emergency equipment and will be sentenced later this week

The two children can be heard crying as he screams expletives down the phone before the other driver rams his car and Hoefert opens fire

Hoefert fires around ten shots at the truck after jumping out of his car and chasing him on foot

As the children cry Hoefert jumps out of the car, falling over before the truck speeds off again.

He jumps back in his car, shouting: 'He just rammed me, I'm going north.'

For a second time the truck ahead stops and rams Hoefert's car.

Hoefert adds: 'He's done it again.' He then fires around ten shots at the truck after jumping out of his car and chasing him on foot.

Hoefert was charged with shooting from a car, child abuse and using unauthorized emergency equipment and will be sentenced later this week.

There is a warrant out for Jack's arrest.