Karamo Brown was stylish as could be in Los Angeles this Thursday.

The Queer Eye hunk flashed his dashing smile as he headed down a city sidewalk before stopping to rest at an outdoor table.

Accessorizing with a monochrome Dodgers cap, the 39-year-old modeled a black tee with an inspirational statement on it.

Hollywood hunk: Karamo Brown was stylish as could be in Los Angeles this Thursday

'I am a warrior,' was written across the front of the tee in gold text reminiscent of a marquee from the Golden Age of Hollywood.

He complemented the T-shirt with a fashionably faded pair of fitted charcoal jeans and added a splash of dazzle with a necklace.

The Netflix dreamboat rounded off his ensemble by slipping into a pair of pristine white sneakers and accessorizing with a watch.

Karamo made sure to keep himself hydrated in the chilly weather, carrying along a bottle of Smartwater as he went along on his way.

Repose: The Queer Eye hunk flashed his dashing smile as he headed down a city sidewalk before stopping to rest at an outdoor table

He's a fan: Accessorizing with a monochrome Dodgers cap, the 39-year-old modeled a black tee with an inspirational statement on it

The Houston-born reality star looked the picture of relaxation as he settled down on a stone outdoor bench and leaned against the attached table.

Karamo and his pansexual 22-year-old son Jason, whom he fathered at 15 with his school friend Stephanie Brooks, have just released a children's book together.

The book is called I Am Perfectly Designed and is about a father and son seeing various different types of families during a city stroll.

Toronto-based illustrator Anoosha Syed, whose work is featured in several children's books, contributed to this title as well.

Feeling fab: 'I am a warrior,' was written across the front of the tee in gold text reminiscent of a marquee from the Golden Age of Hollywood

Karamo discovered Jason existed in 2007 when he was subpoenaed for back child support to the tune of $230,000, he revealed in his memoirs.

It was his home state that issued the subpoena owing to Stephanie's welfare application, meaning she was not the one who sued.

The year he learned he had a son he obtained custody and three years later he also legally adopted Stephanie's son Christian by another man.