Hollywood actress AnnaLynne McCord has revealed she spent years of her childhood being sexually abused.

The 32-year-old, who is best known for starring in The CW's teen drama 90210, made the painful admission to Us Weekly on Thursday, saying she only uncovered repressed memories of the abuse last year.

'I remembered - and my whole life changed,' McCord told the publication, explaining that the revelation came during a therapy session.

The actress, who hails from Georgia and grew up in a trailer park, began seeing her therapist to integrate her mind and body after suffering from suicidal thoughts and 'bad sexual experiences'.

During one of the sessions, McCord underwent an experimental stress-relief treatment known as eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EDMR).

In a candid new interview with Us Weekly, Hollywood actress AnnaLynne McCord revealed she spent years of her childhood being sexually abused. She is pictured earlier this month

EDMR, which has been practiced since the 1990s, is a psychotherapy treatment designed to alleviate the distress associated with traumatic memories.

McCord says that she managed to conjure a fragmented memory during the treatment, and worked with her therapist to piece together the puzzle of her past.

'It was this frozen image in my mind,' she told Us Weekly. 'I'm being slammed in the face with blackness. My clothes are down, it's not good.

The star kept seeing the image over and over in her mind, and she eventually realized that she was seeing herself being sexually abused.

'It went on for years, up until I was 11,' McCord candidly stated.

'And then I have a memory, just a singled-out incident, that felt like I was a little bit older than 11.'

The star did not disclose to the magazine whether or not she remembers the perpetrator of the abuse.

McCord has previously been open about painful episodes in her past.

In a 2014 essay penned for Cosmopolitan, McCord revealed she carried a deep sense of shame about her sexuality as she was raised in a strict Christian household.

Then, at age 18, she was raped by a close male friend.

McCord (far left) is best known for starring on 90210 from 2008 until 2013. She is pictured with the cast in 2008

She wrote in the essay: 'One night, a guy friend called. He said he needed a good night's sleep for a meeting, as he'd been crashing on someone's couch. I had known him for some time, so I said to come over and I set him up with a clean towel. We sat on the bed and talked for a while, then I fell asleep.

'When I woke up, he was inside me.'

McCord continued: 'At first, I felt so disoriented and numb, I closed my eyes and pretended to be asleep. I wondered if I had done something to give him the wrong idea. I felt afraid of making him angry'.

The actress candidly wrote that she 'began to go dark' in the months after the assault as she struggled to process what had happened and failed to deal with her sense of shame around sex.

'I had pills and water in hand and thought seriously about killing myself. I didn't fear death — it felt like a solution. When you're in that mode, you don't think suicide is a selfish thing to do. You think you're doing everyone a favor,' she wrote.

The actress, who hails from Atlanta and grew up in a trailer park, began seeing her therapist to integrate her mind and body after suffering from suicidal thoughts and 'bad sexual experiences'

The actress stated at the time that she was in therapy and was trying to heal from the episode.

Now, after uncovering the truth about her painful childhood, says shes is throwing herself into work with her Together1Heart - a non-profit aimed at ending human trafficking.

McCord has been president of the organization for a decade, and says she has received an outpouring of support from its employees and volunteers.

The star is also writing a series of essays as a form of therapy, and has been partaking in meditation to hope cope with her trauma.

'If I'm hoping to heal from violent energy, I can't do that by responding with more violent or angry energy. I am love, and I'm [a] storm. We're here to break cycles and break chains,' she told Us Weekly.