One of the painful paradoxes of communities is that it can take a tragedy to see humans at their very best.

In New Zealand, this was clear in Christchurch following the atrocities of March 15 at two Christchurch mosques.

It was made plain again in Whakatane in the fortnight after the deadly eruption of the White Island volcano, also known as Whakaari.

There were the dramatic acts in the immediate hours.

The helicopter pilots who raced into the inferno.

The St John ambulance workers who dealt with unspeakable injuries.

"One hospital worker who was off shift, she knew it was serious and went to one of the local supermarkets and raided the glad wrap," local MP Kiri Allan told AAP.

"As she was running out she said 'I'm not paying for this' and they said, 'run, just go'."

Dozens more joined her, gravitating to Whakatane Hospital from as far afield as Auckland and Hamilton.

Heike Hundemer, an anaesthetist and clinical lead there said "what we were faced with was beyond comprehension".

"On a typical day on our emergency department, we would have about six nurses and two doctors on duty," she said.

"On Monday ... there would have been around 100 staff in emergency department, acute care department and theatres.

"We used every single bed space, every resource we had here."

A restaurant, Cafe 4U, run by a young Maori businessman offered free meals to all "search and rescue whanau", using the Maori word to suggest adoption into his family.

The meeting house of local tribe Ngati Awa held daily gatherings for those affected to drop in, give support and take it as needed.

"Families brought food. Cakes. Pigs and pork, mutton, fish," elder Joe Harawira said.

"A local shop, when they found out we were buying 40 double sheets to help house visitors, they 'just said take it'.

"The bill was $500 but it was their koha, their gift."

In the darkness, there was great kindness.

That kindness wasn't limited to those helping victims and their families.

During one of the many inordinate waits for news in the days after the eruption, a family picnicked on the Whakatane foreshore, close to the police cordon that had been transformed into a wall of flowers by well-wishers.

Packing up but with leftover food, they offered strawberries, sausage rolls and sandwiches to the many journalists who had sprawled over the area as they, too, waited.

The woman doing the offering was the mother of one of the volcano's victims.

That realisation brought a polite interview request and a polite decline; "Sorry. Sometimes you've just got to know when to say no," she said.

At the centre of much of the kindness was the Ngati Awa.

Visiting Whakatane after the remarkable body retrieval operation, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern's voice waivered as she considered the role of the local tribe.

"What was extraordinary to me amongst all of this was the acknowledgement that people were making of New Zealand ... a process that's unique to Aotearoa, unique to Ngati Awa," she said.

"(Australian) families told me how important and special it was to them."

Ngati Awa weren't peripheral to the operation; they were the power behind it.

They gave karakia, or blessings, at engagements, they housed and supported out-of-towners responding to the crisis and family members who rushed to Whakatane to be with loved ones.

Deputy commissioner Mike Clement said they gave "great strength".

"It's part of New Zealand culture and we're much more powerful for it," he told AAP.

"How do you explain it? It's sort of what defines communities. And the same thing happened in Christchurch.

"If anything starts to play out, they emerge (and) invite people in, regardless of culture.

"They all just bring everyone right into their bosom."

Ngati Awa's central act was a pre-dawn boat ride organised for Kiwi and Australian families last Friday, just prior to the police-defence retrieval mission.

In the tense and grief-struck environment, Harawira and Maori leaders held a makeshift service within a kilometre of White Island, and again just prior to docking back in Whakatane.

"We performed our karakia and there was an opportunity for we Maori to talk to those bereaved families on the boat," Harawira said.

"I spoke of a proverb that goes, the stars and the heavens will always be there, the people on earth will be lost to the night.

"I said, walk out of your house and look up into the black night and see the bright stars glimmering.

"Pick one of them, give one a name and talk with them. Have a conversation.

"Say, 'I hope you're all good up there and you're with your people. We're doing good down here.'"

In return, family members told stories of their lost loved ones, close to where they died.

Harawira said the seven Australians on board were "shaking their heads and had tears rolling down their eyes".

Another on board, deputy commissioner Wally Haumaha, said it was there that the different families formed bonds as "one whanau".

"That's part of the tikanga, the hospitality of Ngati Awa people is treating the six (families) as one," he said.

"Isn't that awesome?

"They're strangers, far away from their own home .... to come here and feel the aroha, the love, and the grief, to share that, I think that's a tribute to our people."

Harawira said he expected the bonds to stick.

"Each person had a reflection. It was a very powerful, moving experience, they'd never experienced anything like it before," he said.

"We farewelled one of the families the day before yesterday. They were going to Auckland to return their bodies to Australia.

"We will be keeping in touch with all of them for the next year, two years, five years, hundred years.

"It's our privilege and it's our role as people of this land where the tragedy happened."