Recovering ice addict Harriet Wran has been given a job as a Sydney receptionist, just months after pleading guilty to carrying meth.

The 31-year-old, who has had a well-publicised battle with the drug, also served a stint in prison for her role in a robbery which led to the 2014 murder of a drug dealer.

But Ms Wran, the daughter of former New South Wales premier Neville Wran, is now hoping to turn her life around for the sake of her mother Jill, 71.

In 2016, Ms Wran (pictured) was released from jail after serving two years for her role in a robbery that led to the murder of drug dealer Daniel McNulty in August 2014

The late politician Neville Wran (left) pictured with his wife Jill and daughter Harriet (right)

She has been working for the past six weeks at the Pyrmont office of estate agents John McGrath, according to the Daily Telegraph.

'Harriet has been a delight to have in our work environment,' McGrath Estate Agents chief executive Geoff Lucas said.

'She is a very talented person who is extremely professional in her outlook and interacts terrifically with everyone.'

The former drug addict snapped up a $1.6 million home in Newtown earlier this year, just months after facing court for drug possession.

She left prison in 2016 after serving two years for her role in a robbery that led to the murder of drug dealer Daniel McNulty in August 2014.

She is understood to have been introduced to the company by a mutual acquaintance of her family.

'I had an opportunity to meet with her and was immediately impressed with Harriet's commitment to wanting to find a career path and work,' Mr Lucas said.

Ms Wren had vowed to get better for the sake of her mother Jill, 71, who was married to the former NSW premier for 38 years.

In a letter to court, she described how her mother had been 'horrified and devastated' by her actions, and was 'barely able to look at' her daughter.

Ms Wran (pictured at court in April 2019) has endured a highly-publicised battle with drugs, which lead to police finding meth in her car

Wran was with her ex-boyfriend Michael Lee and his friend Lloyd Haines when they spontaneously robbed Mr McNulty at his inner-Sydney housing commission flat, where a struggle broke out and he was stabbed to death.

Lee was sentenced to at least 13 years for the 'senseless' stabbing murder.

Haines, 31, who knew Lee had a knife but did not think he would use it, was jailed for at least 11 years.

Ms Wran was arrested after a sleepless six-day ice bender, and insisted she thought the men would only rob McNulty, not kill him.

She was given a maximum four-year term for being an accessory to the August 2014 murder, robbery in company and harbouring her killer boyfriend afterwards.

Wran (pictured) is the daughter of Neville Wran, who was the premier of NSW from 1976 to 1986 and passed away in 2014

But in March this year, she was in trouble again after suffering a relapse.

Police found meth in a car she was driving, as well as stolen credit cards and various drug paraphernalia.

Ms Wran pleaded guilty in April to possessing drugs, goods in custody and not displaying P-plates.

In a letter to the court, Ms Wran said she'd relapsed a few months before the offences, becoming 'hopelessly stuck in daily addiction, continuously using to stamp out the pain and mortification of having picked up that awful drug'.

'As a direct result of the drugs and my desperate cravings for them, I kept the wrong company and thus landed in dark situations, one of those being the night of my arrest,' she wrote.

'Mum was horrified and devastated, barely able to look at me.

'I was frail angry and unpredictable, it was not fair on her, none of this is fair on her. She suffers as a result of my failure.

'I am determined to make things right for her and for me and for everyone who has felt the pain of my addiction. I apologise to law enforcement for this mess.'

She was fined $550 for the drug and P-plate offences and was handed a 12-month community corrections order for the goods on premises offence.