Two leaders, two very different specimens. Firstly, Boris Johnson. Cheery, congenial, generous. And then Jeremy Corbyn. Sullen, graceless, rude.

The pair were making their way over to the House of Lords yesterday morning following Black Rod's customarily surly summons to hear the Queen's Speech.

During this short, 60-second stroll across the Palace of Westminster, it is usual for the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition to engage in some light-hearted British small talk. A brief moan about the inclement weather, perhaps, or Coronation Street's increasingly vapid plotlines.

Boris bounded along, wearing his dappiest cocker spaniel smile. He turned to his opponent, his beady eyes oozing like ramekins of oeuf en gelee, and muttered what we must assume were a few cheery bon mots.

Two leaders, two very different specimens. Firstly, Boris Johnson. Cheery, congenial, generous. And then Jeremy Corbyn. Sullen, graceless, rude, writes Henry Deedes

Corbyn's reaction? Stony silence. That whiskery face simply stared ahead, his hooded peepers as fierce and intense as a murderous cyborg. And with that, away he zoomed, putting as much distance between himself and the Prime Minister as possible. What a sad, sour little man he is.

The State Opening itself was a kitchen supper fare. No pomp, no ceremony. No parapa-pa-paaaars trumpeting Her Majesty's arrival. The Queen had brought out the fine bone china and polished the family silver only two months ago and wasn't going through all that palaver again.

The crooks, cronies and assorted claret garglers which make up the Upper House were in scant supply. Acres of red leather everywhere. My constitutional expert up in the press gallery noted that very few Labour peers appeared to have made the effort. Still, there were a few familiar faces. The Duke of Wellington chuntering with Lord (Michael) Howard.

Former high priestess of the Supreme Court, Baroness Hale, scurrying around in the peculiar hat which may well have been pilfered from the prop cupboard of Pirates of the Caribbean. Was that Apprentice star Baroness Brady of Knightsbridge? Afraid I couldn't tell beyond all those layers of maquillage.

HM arrived at her throne bang on the stroke of 11.30am. She could teach a fair few of her political subjects a thing or two about punctuality let me tell you. She'd dispensed with the stately robes for the day and opted for more of a Royal Ascot-type outfit.

Boris Johnson and Jeremy Corbyn seen at the state opening of Parliament in December

To her left perched Prince Charles, face pinker than a bottle of Pepto-Bismol.

On her right stood her handsome Lord Chamberlain, the Marquess of Cholmondeley, clasping his Staff of Office with the grace and poise of a young Fatima Whitbread. She whistled through the speech. No pauses, no slip-ups. My favourite part was when she mentioned 'gigabit broadband' which she pronounced 'gee-gaw-bit'.

Former Treasury minister, blue-haired Baroness Neville-Rolfe, gave an approving nod of the head. Right beneath my eyrie stood Boris, pumping up and down on his heels. Corbyn had deliberately edged over to be closer to SNP bore Ian Blackford.

After lunch, the Commons assembled to debate the legislation. First up were two delightful speeches from those selected to give the loyal address.

Lovely Tracey Crouch (Con, Chatham and Aylesford) was a hoot. At one point she compared a miserable looking Corbyn to Old Marley, the tormented ghost from Dickens' A Christmas Carol. 'Smile Jeremy, it won't kill you!' yelled a Tory heckler. She was seconded by Eddie Hughes (Con, Walsall North) a cheeky, 'cor blimey, governor' sort of character you used to find in Ealing comedies.

The pair were making their way over to the House of Lords yesterday morning following Black Rod's customarily surly summons to hear the Queen's Speech

When Corbyn rose, he had nothing left in the tank. Zilch. Detuned radios are more fun to listen to than him. He played those tried and failed cards about the evil Tories who planned to sell off the NHS so firmly rejected by voters last week.

From behind, there came not a single cheer or murmur of support. Having stood up to groans, he stood down to absolute silence.

Poor Jezza. He's now back to being that lonely, stranded figure he was on the backbenches, ranting in his Cornish pasty shoes against anyone and everything, an object of derision to opposition parties and an embarrassment to his own.

Boris, acknowledging this was likely to be one of his and Corbyn's final exchanges at the dispatch box ('alas!') naturally killed his opponent with kindness.

He described Corbyn as a man of deeply held convictions whose 'sincerity was to be admired'. Cue generous 'yer, yers' from the government benches. As I say, two very different creatures.

Today, the PM will see his Brexit deal sail through the Commons when it's put to a vote. What a happy way for him to break for Christmas.