Advertisement

Holly Willoughby and Christine Lampard were among the stars attending Piers Morgan's annual Christmas party in London on Thursday night.

The This Morning presenter, 38, appeared in high spirits as she headed into the bash held at Scarsdale Tavern, Kensington with Christine, 31, who was joined by her husband Frank, 41.

Piers, 54, invited a slew of his showbiz pals to the festivities including fellow Good Morning Britain hosts Kate Garraway, Richard Arnold and weather presenter Laura Tobin.

Girls' night out: Holly Willoughby and Christine Lampard were among the stars attending Piers Morgan's annual Christmas party in London on Thursday night

Holly cut a stylish figure in a black and red Christmas jumper which had the slogan: 'I'm your holiday treat' emblazoned on the front.

The television presenter teamed the look with black jeans and added a boost to her height with pointed court shoes.

Holly looked ready to party as she arrived at the bash with a bottle of wine and Christmas pudding in hand.

Party-time: The This Morning presenter, 38, appeared in high spirits as she headed into the bash

Feeling festive: The girls giggled as they headed into the party together

Chic: Christine looked every inch the fashion maven in a slouchy cream jumper which sheathed over her slender frame

Holiday treats: Holly styled her blonde hair in a sleek straight centre parting and finished off her festive outfit with pink lipstick and winged eyeliner

Boozy: Holly looked ready to party as she arrived at the bash with a bottle of wine in her hand

Time to celebrate: Christine and Frank, who will celebrate their third wedding anniversary on Wednesday, looked in the party spirit as they arrived in their taxi

Annual Christmas bash: Piers, 54, invited a slew of his showbiz pals to the festivities and appeared in a joyous mood as he arrived

Catching the eye: Piers' host Susanna Reid, 49, layered a black coat atop of her sparkly sequin dress

Christine was also dressed to impress in a slouchy cream jumper which had silver beaded detailing on the shoulder.

The Loose Women host finished off her night out ensemble with tailored black trousers with silk piping and heels.

The girls giggled as they headed into the party, with Frank, 41, following shortly behind.

Christine and Frank looked in a joyous spirits during the celebrations, which took place the night before their third wedding anniversary.

Piers' GMB host Susanna Reid, 49, cut a glamorous figure in a sparkly sequin dress and red striped heels, while Charlotte Hawkins, 44, looked festive in a black star patterned midi dress, which she teamed with a plush faux fur coat.

December shower: Katherine Jenkins didn't let the wet weather damped her spirits as she arrived at the pub with a large green umbrella

Chatty: Katherine had a jovial conversation with her driver as she arrived at the party on Thursday

Floral queen: Georgia Toffolo cut a sophisticated figure in a black ditzy print dress which was adorned with red roses

Glamorous: Pier's GMB co-host Charlotte Hawkins, 44, looked festive in a black star patterned midi dress, which she teamed with a plush faux fur coat

Chic: Kay Burley looked sensational as she stepped out in a figure-hugging red midi dress teamed with a pair of nude heels, keeping her accessories bare

Making an appearance: Gary Lineker, 59, flashed a smile as he headed into the Kensington pub

Draped in tinsel: Gillian McKeith, 60, and her daughters Afton, 19, and Skylar received coveted invites after attending the bash last year

Gillian McKeith, 60, and her daughters Afton, 19, and Skylar received coveted invites after attending the bash last year.

The trio made sure to turn heads and were decked themselves out in tinsel and Christmas tree headbands.

Sheridan Smith, 38, covered up her baby bump as she too arrived at the party with fiancé Jamie Horn, 28.

The actress, who is expecting a baby boy next year, wrapped-up in a checked blazer which she layered atop of a simple black vest top. Jamie, meanwhile, looked dapper in a black zip-up jumper,

Georgia Toffolo cut a sophisticated figure in a black ditzy print dress which was adorned with red roses. The former Made In Chelsea star, 25, complemented the look with a soft pink Chanel handbag and black heels.

Expecting: Sheridan Smith, 38, covered up her baby bump as she arrived at the party with fiancé Jamie Horn

Couples' night out: The actress, who is expecting a baby boy next year, wrapped-up in a checked blazer which she layered atop of a simple black vest top

Blonde beauty: The Gavin and Stacey star swept her blonde tresses back into a stylish quiff, and opted for a dramatic make-up look including a slick of red lipstick

Blonde beauty: The Gavin and Stacey star looked glamorous as she headed into her sober night out arm in arm with Jamie

Sharing messages from adoring fans, Sheridan posted one message reading: 'You're going to be such an amazing, beautiful mummy to a very lucky little boy'

Baring gifts! Holly arrived at the party in a black cab baring gifts as she appeared to carry a wrapped bottle in her hand

Kiss me! Kate Garraway and her husband Derek Draper couldn't keep their hands off each other as they turned up to Piers Morgan's Christmas party

We're here! Kate walked into the party with husband Derek before sharing a sweet hug with Richard Arnold

In the spirit: The television presenter wore a red Christmas jumper with 'Sleigh What?' emblazoned across the front of it

Lady in red: Kate added a sweeping trench coat in a festive red to complete the Chrismassy look

Cute! The old friends appeared happy in each other's company following Kate's return from the jungle

Guest list: Kate was also seen on the arm of Richard Arnold, also of GMB fame

No hard feelings: Their PDA was perhaps an act of defiance, after Kate's Good Morning Britain colleague Piers took a low swipe at her spouse's looks while she was in the jungle

Pals: Richard, Kate and Laura Tobin seemed to be in high spirits as they made their way inside the pub. Laura wore a maroon coat over a velvet green dress for the event

Loved-up: Derek walked with a protective arm around his wife of 14 years as they meandered into the bar

The entertainment's here! Bruno Toniolo was every inch the showman as he rocked up at the event alongside James Blunt

Good times: The three colleagues enjoyed a laugh and a joke as they strolled arm in arm to the party

Festive style: Katherine opted for a chic wrap jacket while Charlotte rocked a fur jacket

Pals! Holly was spotted with her pal Christine as they arrived at the event together

Jovial: Kay carried a present wrapped in gold paper with red stars as she walked alongside two friends

Tartan fever! Jessica Taylor and her husband Kevin Peterson arrived together in stylish fashion

Styling ensemble: Jessica looked incredible in a pair of tartan red trousers and a leather jacket

Party-goers! Hilary Jones clutched a red rose in her hand while Stanley appeared animated as they headed home after the party

Bucketing it down: James was forced to pull out his umbrella to avoid getting drenched by the sudden onslaught of rain

Wild! Rachel put on a playful display as she made her way into the pub alongside presenter Christine

Classy! Toff toted a nude padded Chanel handbag and wore her blonde tresses swept off her face in a loose ponytail

Pretty! Georgia looked impossibly glamorous as she arrived at the pub event in a floral dress

Kate Garraway and her husband Derek Draper couldn't keep their hands off each other as they turned up to Piers' birthday.

The couple showed they're still as loved up as ever, with Kate, 52, only recently back from her stint on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!

Their PDA was perhaps an act of defiance, after Kate's Good Morning Britain colleague Piers took a low swipe at her spouse's looks while she was in the jungle.

Piers, 54, said of Derek, 52: 'If I'd known the bar was that low, I'd have had a crack myself!'

But Kate and Derek seemed to laugh off this remark, having turned up to the party in the first place, and by snogging for all to see.

Dapper: Gary teamed brown trainers with dark blue jeans as he stayed casual for the event

Handsome: Frank looked dapper in a tailored black coat and suit trousers

Arrivals: Stanley Johnson, 79, was suited and booted in a suit and red tie while Gary looked relaxed in a brown shirt and jeans

Duck and cover: James bent down underneath his umbrella as he walked past a flower display

Glam! Also in attendance was Stanley's daughter Rachel Johnson who looked glam in a silver dress and metallic mac

Arrivals: The couple left their one-year-old daughter Patricia with the babysitter for their evening out

Home time? Holly and Christine were later pictured in the back of a taxi

Ready for off: Holly held onto the orange handle to steady herself as the pair set off home

Gal pals: Holly pulled the door closed behind herself as she and Christine headed home

Cheeky: Christine playfully messed with her hair as she was lit up by camera flashes

Glamorous ladies: Holly and Christine seemed in high spirits as they headed out of the pub

Funny: Holly laughed away as she shared a joke with Christine and her husband Frank

Jokes: Frank kept a straight face as his wife laughed and joked next to him in the cab

Close: Christine and Holly were so in sync for their night out their wore matching black court heels

Smart! George Osbourne appeared to have hit the party straight from work as he toted a briefcase in his hand

Fun: Piers took a moment to chat to Gillian and her daughters Skylar and Afton outside the pub

Squad: Richard and Kate were all smiles as they were pictured together at the bash