Climate change protesters dressed as reindeer and elves have caused traffic chaos by gluing their hands to a major road in Sydney's CBD.

One of the protesters was dressed as Scott Morrison in a Santa suit, pulling a sleigh with the words 'coal slays life' while charcoal and cardboard cutouts of flames lay on the ground around him.

Others scattered themselves across the ground like corpses - as part of the 'die-in' - a form of protest which aims to draw attention and disrupt traffic and pedestrian movement.

The protest was organised by the Sydney branch of the Extinction Rebellion group.

The group was quickly surrounded by New South Wales police as they blocked off the road at Pitt Street and the corner of Martin Place, in Sydney's CBD.

Police rescue crews were tasked with removing the protesters from the street using acetone and bolt-cutters.

Meanwhile seven people have been arrested over the action, including the one who was dressed as Santa Scott Morrison.

Police led the man away while he held a lump of coal over his head, and a Hawaiian lei around his neck- a reference to the Prime Minister's decision for an overseas holiday during the bushfire crisis.

Police arrested seven people at the Extinction Rebellion Protest in Sydney this morning, including one man who was dressed as Satnta Prime Minister Scott Morrison (pictured) who was brandishing a lump of coal over his head

Police used bolt-cutters to remove the man's head-piece before they placed him in custody after the action at Sydney's Martin Place on Friday

Before arresting the man police had to use bolt-cutters to remove his head piece.

One of the organisers for the protest live-streamed the political action on social media, speaking about the group's reasons for the demonstration.

‘Our leaders are doing nothing about the bushfires that are raging in Australia right now.

Smoke is filling the city and our leaders are doing nothing.

We are breathing in toxic air. It is totally disgusting what is happening right now and our leaders are doing nothing’ the man said.

Protesters dressed as reindeer glued their hands to the corner of Pitt Street and Martin Place in Sydney to protest climate action

Protesters are scattered across the ground as 'corpses' as they protest climate inaction ahead of Christmas in Sydney

Extinction Rebellion is a global environmental movement with the stated aim of 'using nonviolent civil disobedience to compel government action to avoid tipping points in the climate system, biodiversity loss, and the risk of social and ecological collapse.

The group regularly uses disruptive tactics in their protests, including blocking off roads or other thoroughfares to delay or impact on people's ability to get to work or other activities.

Another recent demonstration by the Sydney branch took place in late October, where about 200 people marched through Martin Place calling for urgent action on climate change.

Protesters dressed in Christmas outfits and lay on the ground beside a Santa sleigh at the action in Sydney on Friday where seven people were arrested by the New South Wales police

A protester waves an Extinction Rebellion flag at the protest in Sydney's Martin Place on Friday morning

Police rescue were among those tasked with removing the protesters from the corner of Pitt Street and Martin place in Sydney on Friday

New South Wales Police officers were quick to attend Sydney's Martin Place on Friday where seven people were arrested for taking part in a climate change protest

Coal was scattered across the road at the intersection of Pitt Street and Martin Place in Sydney where Extinction Rebellion held a protest on government inaction on climate change

The protest was organised by the Sydney branch of the Extinction Rebellion group- as part of non-violent direct action calling for urgent action on climate change