They are enjoying a holiday getaway on the Caribbean island of St. Barts.

And on Sunday, Karlie Kloss and her husband Josh Kushner, who's the younger brother of Jared Kushner, son-in-law and special adviser to US President Donald J. Trump, docked back on shore after spending two days aboard a mega-yacht with some friends.

The luxury watercraft - named Rising Sun - is owned by multi-billionaire business magnate and Founder of DreamWorks, David Geffen, and is worth $200million.

The couple arrived arrived on the scenic island on Friday. Rita Wilson rang in her birthday back in 2016 aboard the yacht and Oprah did the same in January.

Fun in the sun: Model Karlie Kloss, 27, and husband Josh Kushner, 34, are enjoying a holiday getaway on the Caribbean island of St. Barts

The boat has hosted a number of other guests as well, including Dasha Zhukova and her boyfriend Stavros Niarchos, Wendi Deng and Princess Beatrice, Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom, Chris Rock, Bruce Springsteen and countless others.

Kloss, 27, looked casually-elegant in a full length black dress and tan flats when she was escorted off the the Rising Sun yacht.

Once back on shore, she flipped her shoes off and went barefoot.

She also wore her shoulder-length blonde tresses long and with a part on the left.

Luxury: Kloss and Kushner spent the last couple of days on-board the mega-yacht, Rising Sun

Stylish: Kloss was decked out in a black full-length dress when she disembarked the yacht

The couple were married in 2018 in a small, Jewish ceremony surrounded by their friends and family in upstate New York.

The top model converted to the Jewish faith before taking their nuptials.

Jared Kushner's wife Ivanka Trump also converted to Orthodox Judaism before they tied the knot back in 2009.

Comfy: The former Victoria's Secret Angel slipped of her shoes when she made it back on land

Angelic: Kloss was a Victoria's Secret Angels from 2013-2015

Joshua Kushner is the co-founder and managing partner of the investment firm Thrive Capital, along with Oscar Health.

Being among the top models since she was a teenager, Kloss gained worldwide attention as a Victoria's Secret Angel from 2013 to 2015.

The Illinois native resigned in order to study in the Gallatin School Of Individualized Study Of New York University.