She's the former Miss Universe who has risen to fame as an influencer.

And Olivia Culpo proved her style credentials on Thursday as she attended the MDL Beast Festival in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

The model, 27, wowed in a fedora hat and a tiered maxi dress which featured semi-sheer lace detailing.

Incredible: Olivia Culpo, 27, wowed in a white tiered maxi dress and caramel fedora on Thursday as she attended the MDL Beast Festival in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia

Posing up a storm in the dress, Olivia accesssorised with a chunky brown belt as well as a slightly lighter brown hand bag.

And the former Miss Universe star's shining brunette tresses were styled in flowing curls.

Olivia's outing comes after the star recently opened up about her relationship with NFL star Christian McCaffrey, which she said is going 'really great'.

While attending the Miss Universe pageant in Atlanta, where she served as a backstage correspondent, she told People magazine: 'We have so much in common. It’s really easy for us, so I’m grateful.'

Hats off: Posing up a storm in the dress, Olivia accesssorised with a chunky brown belt as well as a slightly lighter brown hand bag

The couple were first romantically linked earlier this year, later going on holiday together in Cabo San Lucas in Mexico.

And ever since, Olivia has shared her relationship on her Instagram story.

Christian gave the star a confidence boost when he posted a picture of Olivia in a swimsuit and wrote: 'Proud of you! @oliviaculpo.'

Glow: The former Miss Universe star's shining brunette tresses were styled in flowing curls

Jewellery: Olivia also showed off glittering rings on both her hands as she sought to emphasise her fashion sense

Sparkling: Olivia's pristine white teeth and film star smile was out in force

The former beauty queen was previously in a relationship with Christian's fellow NFL star Danny Amendola, before the former couple split in April.

In November, Olivia left little to the imagination as she flaunted her famous figure in a series of swimsuits during a photo shoot for Sports Illustrated in Bali.

The influencer shared a behind-the-scenes view of a sexy scene where she paraded her body in risque bikinis.

Heating up: Olivia's outing comes after the star recently opened up about her relationship with NFL star Christian McCaffrey (right), which she said is going 'really great'

Olivia stunned in a sporty lavender top with black straps and matching bottoms as she posed against a rock formation along the shore.

Meanwhile, Olivia recently asked fans what their New Years's resolutions were, before sharing her own.

She wrote: 'Whats everyone’s New Years resolution? Some of mine so far: more time off and self care, work smarter (not harder), journal more, read more, see my family more.... oh, and furnish my house.'