Businesses have welcomed cash pledges for infrastructure and research as part of Boris Johnson's plan to 'level up' Britain.

As the Queen's Speech was delivered to Parliament, the Prime Minister promised 'the biggest infrastructure revolution in living memory' and vowed to double spending on science.

Among the measures being proposed are higher tax credits to support research and development, a National Skills Fund to help people switch careers, a fresh strategy for the space industry and a major boost to the roll-out of cutting-edge broadband across the country.

As the Queen's Speech was delivered to Parliament, Prime Minister Boris Johnson promised 'the biggest infrastructure revolution in living memory' and to double spending on science

Reforms to the railway system are also proposed, while a research funding agency is planned that would be modelled on a US agency that created the forerunner to the internet.

In his forward to the speech, Johnson said: 'We will release the country from the stranglehold of indecision restoring confidence to people and businesses.'

Stephen Phipson, chief executive at Make UK, the manufacturers' organisation, said: 'There is much that manufacturers will welcome in the speech with a number of measures designed to support business growth, ensure the UK is at the forefront of tackling climate change and, in particular, improve the UK's productivity performance.

'In particular, industry will welcome plans to boost R&D, infrastructure investment and skills which is a critical factor for manufacturers right across the UK.'

Sarah Collins, director of RIFT Research and Development, said: 'We are delighted to hear the new government has committed to increasing research and development tax credits to help innovative businesses thrive.

'It is a relief that benefits UK business to the tune of over £4billion each year and can be worth hundreds of thousands of pounds to those companies investing in tech, research and new ways of working.

'It's fair to say that the starting pistol has been fired by Boris Johnson.'