The High Street has endured its longest losing streak since records began in 1996, figures have shown.

The UK’s ailing retail sector saw sales fall by 0.6 per cent in November, according to the Office of National Statistics (ONS) figures.

It was the fourth consecutive month without growth – the longest such run since the data started being collected 23 years ago.

The bleak figures underlined the challenge facing Prime Minister Boris Johnson as he tries to tackle the crisis facing Britain’s retailers.

Christmas crisis: The UK retail sector saw sales fall 0.6 per cent in November. It was the fourth consecutive month without growth – the longest such run since record began 23 years ago

Around 60 shops per day closed between January and September, according to data from the Centre for Retail Research.

A string of well-known High Street brands have gone bust, been sold or moved online, including Mothercare, Jack Wills, Coast and Karen Millen.

In the Queen’s Speech yesterday, the Government formally announced its plans to cut business rates for half a million independent shops, restaurants, pubs and cinemas from April.

Businesses said the reduction, equivalent to 1 per cent of the total rates bill, only provided temporary relief and more fundamental reform was needed.

The retail industry has been hit by a storm of rising cost of rents, rates and staffing, caused by increases in the minimum wage.

At the same time customers are shopping more online, leaving some businesses with too many big, expensive stores.

ONS statistician Rhian Murphy said: ‘All main sectors saw their sales fall with the exception of food stores.’

The figures suggest that Christmas shoppers are putting present buying off until the last minute and will fuel concerns that political uncertainty has hit consumer confidence.

Karen Johnson, head of retail and wholesale at Barclays Corporate Banking, called the figures ‘disappointing’, while Lisa Hooker, consumer markets leader at PwC, said they will put enormous pressure on shops tomorrow and on Sunday.

The Tories have pledged to alleviate the squeeze on business margins by providing temporary business rates relief, ahead of a ‘fundamental review’ beginning in the spring.

The tax break will be worth up to £12,500 for each business premises and will cost the Treasury £770million next year.

This is made up of £450million for the existing 33 per cent discount, plus a further £320million to top it up to 50 per cent. Analysis by the Altus Group said the average shop’s rate would fall from £9,400 last year, to £4,900 next year.

The bill levied on the average pub will be £8,000, down from £17,500, and restaurants will pay £10,600 on average, down from £20,400.

However, this relief will only last for one year and it also does not help larger retailers, who claim the tax gives an unfair advantage to online retailers, particularly Amazon.

Kate Nicholls, chief executive of trade body UK Hospitality, said: ‘Improving the business rates system is paramount and the Government commitment to a review is very welcome.

‘Additional support for pubs, which have been hit so hard by rates in recent years is a great first step.

‘We will continue to push the Government to ensure that the business tax system is fit for purpose in the 21st Century.’

Earlier this week, Sports Direct’s Mike Ashley described the rates system as ‘broken and unworkable’.

* Amazon is recruiting 1,000 staff for a £120million warehouse as it continues its unstoppable rise in the UK.

It will add the 1.5m sq ft logistics centre near Darlington to its 21 fulfilment centres around the country.

Amazon has been at the heart of the argument over business rates, because its massive warehouses incur lower charges than expensive city centre shops.

Amazon pays UK business rates of £63.4million, almost £40million less than Next, despite clocking up more than double the sales in the UK of the clothing and home retailer.