She announced her pregnancy in July.

And Christina Milian continued to showcase her baby bump in a denim shirt she wore underneath a denim jacket draped over her shoulders on Sunday.

The Falling Inn Love star, 38, cradled her bump in one hand and held hands with her boyfriend in the other as she navigated the pavement in white sneakers.

On-the-go: Christina Milian continued to showcase her baby bump in a denim shirt she wore underneath a denim jacket draped over her shoulders

Pokora, 34, donned a yellow plaid shirt he wore over a grey T-shirt and a yellow beanie.

He also wore cargo pants of a camouflage print and black-and-white high-top sneakers.

She wore no jewelry save for a pair of hoop earrings on her ears.

Busy: The Falling Inn Love star, 38, cradled her bump in one hand and held hands with her boyfriend in the other as she navigated the pavement in white sneakers

Back in June the AM to PM singer sparked engagement rumors when she stepped out at an event wearing a large diamond ring on 'that' finger.

Her rep later cleared up confusion by revealing that she was not engaged.

A walk down the aisle would come as no surprise, however, to fans of the star who have followed her recent romance with Pokora.

Happy: Pokora, 34, donned a yellow plaid shirt he wore over a grey T-shirt and a yellow beanie

She announced her second pregnancy at the end of July with a heartwarming Instagram post.

And, in mid-August, she and Pokora threw a gender reveal party where it was announced their child would be a boy.

Christina - who already has nine-year-old daughter Violet with The-Dream - recently said she's 'excited' to become a mother for the second time.

'I had no morning sickness, everything's been fine,' she said. 'Even my belly, I carry it different than a girl. It's kind of weird to experience that. Having a boy is pretty awesome.'

When asked if she wants to marry her boyfriend of two years, she told Us Weekly magazine: 'Someday. It's not, like, in the near future. It's not, like, the first thing on my checklist. But I am not opposed to it at all.'