Their relationship is going from strength to strength following the Bachelorette finale earlier this year.

And on Thursday, Angie Kent gave fans a glimpse into her and Carlin Sterritt's new life together - sharing a video of her 'night time skincare routine' on Instagram.

But despite her best efforts, fans couldn't take their eyes of her beau - who was seen cheekily flaunting his abs while sporting sexy black boxer shorts behind her.

Nobody's looking at your skincare! Angie Kent (left) shared a video with fans on Friday of her nightly routine - but fans couldn't stop looking at Carlin Sterritt's (right) six pack

'Just doing my nightly routine. I do this product first, helps with my pigment,' Angie said, despite still wearing layers of mascara and smokey shadow on her eyes.

'You're just here so everyone can see your 20 pack!' she quipped to Carlin, who zoomed out and flexed his muscles.

'I'm not even in the shot!' he bit back, before zooming out and saying: 'Now I am.'

'You're just here so everyone can see your 20 pack!' Angie joked with her other half, who swiftly dipped behind her mid-video

'Helps with my pigment!' Angie was seen applying a serum to her face in the video, even though she appeared to be wearing heavy eye makeup

Angie hilariously captioned the shot: 'I know you’re totally watching me in my sexy white robe and not the shirtless gent behind me.

'Get out of here @carlinsterritt with your damn glorious 20 pack. Meanwhile I’m preparing my Christmas pack. Who’s with me.'

Fans were quick to comment on the funny video, with one writing: 'I'm sorry I had to watch this at least 4 times before I realised you were talking.'

Still going strong! Angie and Carlin (pictured in Vietnam together in November) are still very much in love, months after the show wrapped up with filming

'Oh stop you two!' another wrote, while a third added: 'He is well equipped!'

The pair met on The Bachelorette earlier this year, and despite multiple split rumours emerging, have managed to keep their relationship going strong for over six months.

The Bachelor's Matt Agnew, whose season aired just before Angie's, ended his relationship with winner Chelsie McLeod just weeks after their season ended.