Tim Minchin, 44, lashed out at Scott Morrison for inaction over climate change

Australian comedian and activist Tim Minchin has used an eerie 'snow globe' created by Greenpeace to slam Scott Morrison for 'tooling around' by taking a holiday during the bushfire crisis.

Mr Minchin, 44, shared a photo on Thursday of the Christmas gift he received from the environmental organisation and also attacked the PM for relying on religious beliefs instead of science.

The globe featured a Santa Claus standing on a mound of ash holding a sign that read: 'It's beginning to look a lot like climate change'.

'I got a hilarious / depressing package from Greenpeace today - a 'snow' globe made made with ash from the NSW bushfires,' Mr Minchin wrote on Twitter.

'It is actually snowing ash in parts of Sydney today. Global warming will continue to increase the frequency and severity of catastrophic events like this.'

Minchin takes a selfie with the 'snow' globe gift from Greanpeace featuring Santa Claus standing on a mound of ash from the NSW bushfires

The comedian slammed Scott Morrison for inaction over climate change on Twitter

The lyricist from the musical Matilda asked Mr Morrison, who on Friday said he planned to return from a Hawaiian holiday after being panned for taking a break while the fires raged, 'where the bloody hell are ya?'.

That was a reference to the famous campaign overseen by Mr Morrison when he was formerly head of Tourism Australia.

Mr Minchin, who had previously penned protest songs 'Come Home Cardinal Pell' and 'I Still Call Australia Homophobic' claimed Australia had 'one of the poorest recent records on climate action'.

He told Mr Morrison to stop 'tooling around trying to codify religious privilege, learn some science, and declare a climate emergency'.

The 'snow' globe was also photographed near a smoke-shrouded Sydney Harbour Bridge

Mr Morrison, who had cancelled his January leave due to international meetings, instead flew out for a family holiday in Hawaii while bushfires ravaged Queensland, NSW, South Australia and Western Australia.

The prime minister's office repeatedly said it could not reveal his holiday location, citing 'security reasons' but a photo of him with tourists in Hawaii surfaced on social media on Thursday.

Mr Morrison on Friday said he was sorry for any offence and said he had been keeping track of operations to contain bushfires.

Tim Minchin stars in the TV show Upright and stands with his wife Sarah at the ACTAA awards on December 4

'I deeply regret any offence caused to any of the many Australians affected by the terrible bushfires by my taking leave with family at this time,' he said.

'As noted, given the most recent tragic events, I will be returning to Sydney as soon as can be arranged.'

NSW premier Gladys Berejiklian declared a state of emergency on Thursday morning.

Six people have died and more than 800 homes have been lost.

More than 55 fires across the state are still burning and firefighters continue to strengthen containment lines as they brace for potentially dangerous conditions from Friday into the weekend.