She encouraged fans to ditch crazy diets and eat mindfully earlier this week.

And Malin Andersson stripped down to red lingerie on Thursday to tell fans not to be fooled by the picture-perfect Instagram community.

The Love Island star, 27, showcased her incredible curves as she showed how posture and angles can completely change the way her figure looks on camera.

'It's all about posture': Malin Andersson slipped into red lingerie on Thursday to tell fans not to be fooled by the picture-perfect Instagram community (left breathing out, right breathing in)

With her hair styled in glamorous curls, Malin set pulses racing in her scarlet lingerie set.

The television personality captioned the post: 'ITS ALL ABOUT YA POSTURE. Who we all foolin?' (sic).

Malin was lauded as an 'inspiration' for sharing the candid clip. One follower wrote: 'Absolutely stunning such an inspiration,' while another added: 'I love you. You’re so amazing and such a beautiful role model, for all women out there'.

Turning up the heat: With her hair styled in glamorous curls, Malin set pulses racing in her scarlet lingerie set

A third follower chimed: 'Love how real you are. Nice to see that on Instagram.'

Malin's latest post comes after she spoke about her 'Christmas triggers' after enduring a six-year battle with an eating disorder.

The Love Island star shared a picture of herself struggling to do up her trousers on Wednesday alongside a motivational caption encouraging people to ditch crazy diets and eat mindfully.

Malin wrote a 'few pounds is nothing compared to your sane mental health', inspiring others to not worry about the numbers on the scale.

Camera angles: The television personality captioned the post: 'ITS ALL ABOUT YA POSTURE. Who we all foolin?'

The television personality previously discussed her struggle with bulimia in an interview with Now magazine.

Her eating disorder began when she was just 16 and was at its worst when she worked as an air hostess in Dubai and had to be weighed before every flight.

Speaking out this week, she wrote: 'CHRISTMAS TRIGGERS! So ermmm yeah, Christmas is upon us and this time of year is difficult for me even though I know I’m ‘cool’ with food now.

'I decided to weigh myself this morning, I don’t know why, I just had some weird urge. I haven’t weighed myself in AGESSS! And I gained like 2 pounds.

'I was like cool, okay. Then it made me think about over eating at Christmas and I had to stop myself and give my face a slap lol cos old Malin would have gone into meltdown.

'Eat what you want. Enjoy yourself, be mindful, live for the moment and remember a few pounds is nothing compared to your sane mental health.'