A mother-of-three has wrapped up her entire family car in a bid to trick her children by blaming their two elves Candy and Cane.

Joining in on the 'Elves Behaving Badly' craze, Eleanor Halliday, 25, decided to wrap her Ford Fusion car in Christmas wrapping paper last Friday.

Eleanor Halliday (pictured), 25, covered her entire Ford Fusion car in Christmas wrapping paper last Friday and blamed it on her children's two elves Candy and Cane

The mother-of-three and her husband, Malcolm (left), snuck out at 10pm to wrap the car. Ms Halliday said her children were 'extremely hyper and happy' after discovering the prank

The stay-at-home mother ran out of Sellotape twice while wrapping her car with three rolls of wrapping paper – two of which were 10m long.

Her children Riley, seven, Ava-Rose, five, and Oscar, three, were both excited and shocked to see what their two elves Candy and Cane had done.

Eleanor, from Meifod, Wales said: 'The elves have been 'visiting' our home for four years now so I am forever thinking of ways and looking online to shock the children. Pinterest is a really good source for ideas.

'I don't think I have seen anyone else wrap their car and I knew it would shock the children.

The mother, from Meifod, Wales, attached her car keys to the two elves Candy and Cane

'We put the children to bed and snuck out onto the drive at around 10pm to wrap it.

'My husband Malcolm, 28, helped so I could keep running back in to check on the kids but it only took about 20 minutes to complete.

'We ran out of wrapping paper and Sellotape twice – luckily I had more in the house.

'When the kids woke up, they dashed down the stairs to find Candy and Cane with the car keys that had wrapping paper stuck to them.

'They were all puzzled and didn't know why until we stepped outside to get in the car.'

She added: 'They were all extremely hyper and happy and began ripping the paper off whilst screaming 'the elf did it!'.

'Thankfully it didn't rain – it was so worth it seeing their little faces light up.

'We will reuse the paper for small Christmas presents.'