The latest Chinese trespasser at President Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida made her initial court appearance on Thursday and was ordered held in jail.

Jing Lu, 56, is charged with misdemeanor counts of loitering or prowling and resisting arrest without violence.

A judge appointed a public defender to serve as Lu's lawyer and granted $2,000 bail, but ordered the woman to remain in custody because she is in the US on an expired visa and has a federal immigration hold, which means she is subject to deportation

The judge also issued an order that Lu stay away from Mar-a-Lago, located on the wealthy Palm Beach barrier island.

Chinese national Jing Lu, 56, appeared in court on Thursday (left) and was ordered held in custody because she's in the US on expired visa

A judge ordered the woman be held on $2,000, but said she must remain in custody because she has a federal immigration hold and is subject to deportation

Lu, who is in the US on an expired visa, was banned from going near Mar-a-Lago

Palm Beach police say Lu was confronted by the private club's security officers at the club's main entrance and told to leave, but she returned to take photos by walking down to a service gate.

According to a police affidavit, when security personnel approached, Lu fled on foot and was eventually apprehended in the high-end Worth Avenue shopping district in Palm Beach.

When officers approached her, Lu 'balled up her hands into fists, crossed her arms on her chest, began screaming "no, no, no" and pulling away from me,' one officer wrote in the affidavit.

After that, Lu was handcuffed and taken into custody. The affidavit says Lu refused to let investigators view the photos on her cellphone and asked immediately for a lawyer, cutting off further questioning.

This was the second time this year alone that a Chinese national was arrested at Trump's lavish Mar-a-Lago estate.

This was the second time this year that a Chinese national was arrested at Trump's lavish Mar-a-Lago property

She trespassed the estate and was asked to leave but was caught by police when she returned to the resort and started to take pictures. She invoked her right to an attorney and is currently being held in Palm Beach County Jail for loitering and prowling

The White House and Mar-a-Lago have not commented on the incident.

China's Foreign Ministry spokesman Geng Shuang said he was not familiar with the Lu case.

'What I can tell you is that the Chinese government always requires that Chinese nationals overseas abide by local laws and regulations and not engage in any kind of illegal activities,' he told reporters.

Donald Trump was not at his Palm Beach property at the time of the trespassing incident. He spent the day in Washington DC then spoke in Battle Creek, Michigan at a rally in the evening, as the US House of Representatives voted to impeach him.

He's slated to head to Mar-a-Lago, which he calls the Southern White House, on Friday for a roughly two-week vacation.

The Mar-a-Lago estate is scheduled to host a gala for Turning Point USA, a pro-Trump conservative organization, on Wednesday evening which will be attended by Jerry Falwell Jr. and Donald Trump Jr.

On Wednesday Trump spent the day in Washington D.C. and is scheduled to appear at a political rally in Michigan on Wednesday evening

Donald Trump announced that he will spend the holidays at his lavish club and he'll head to the 'Southern White House' next week

In March, 33-year-old Chinese national Yujing Zhang was arrested for illegally entering the club.

Zhang, a businesswoman from Shanghai, gained access to Mar-a-Lago after she was mistaken for a member's relative and was carrying a laptop, phones and other electronics. It sparked initial speculation that she might have been a spy.

Initially, Secret Service members said she was carrying a thumb drive loaded with 'malicious malware,' but in the end she did not face espionage-related charges.

Text messages exchanged with a trip organizer indicated she was a fan of President Trump and wanted to meet him or his family to discuss potential deals, according to AP.

In September, she was convicted of entering a restricted area and lying to a federal agent. She is currently awaiting deportation.

In another Mar-a-Lago trespassing case, a University of Wisconsin student was arrested in November 2018 after he mixed in with guests being admitted to the club. He pleaded guilty in May and received probation.