They recently celebrated six months of wedded bliss.

And Cheryl Burke shared the look of love with her husband Matthew Lawrence while strolling on the beach at the luxurious Sandals Grande St. Lucian.

The happy couple walked arm-in-arm while catching the sunset on the sand as they enjoyed a luxurious vacation before the holidays.

Bliss: Cheryl Burke shared the look of love with her husband Matthew Lawrence while strolling by the beach at the luxurious Sandals Grande St. Lucian

The Dancing With The Stars pro looked ready for the warm weather wearing a strapless beige dress with white polka dots.

Her mini dress featured rows of flowing fabric which draped down past her thighs as she soaked up the sun.

Cheryl's golden tan was on display and she wore her chocolate brown hair down straight past her shoulders.

Happiness: The happy couple walked arm-in-arm while catching the sunset on the sand as they enjoyed a luxurious vacation before the holidays

No bad views: She added inches to her frame with a pair of nude espadrilles and wore a delicate gold chain to match hoop earrings

Dressed to impress: The Dancing With The Stars pro looked ready for the warm weather wearing a strapless beige dress with white polka dots

She added inches to her frame with a pair of nude espadrilles and wore a delicate gold chain to match hoop earrings.

Matthew kept things casual in a pair of skinny jeans and a tight grey-and-black striped T-shirt.

He showed off a minimal amount of scruff on his face to match his shaggy brown hair, and wore a silver pendant necklace.

The happy couple enjoyed some time together at the luxurious, all-inclusive resort in the Caribbean before heading back home for the holiday season.

Relax: The happy couple enjoyed some time together at the luxurious, all-inclusive resort in the Caribbean before heading back home for the holiday season

Amazing: Often described as 'the closest vacation to a picture-perfect postcard,' the resort is situated between the scenic Rodney Bay and the Atlantic Ocean, with over-the-water bungalows and twelve exclusive restaurants

Often described as 'the closest vacation to a picture-perfect postcard,' the resort is situated between the scenic Rodney Bay and the Atlantic Ocean, with over-the-water bungalows and twelve exclusive restaurants.

They became husband and wife earlier this year with a star-studded wedding at the Fairmont Grand del Mar in San Diego, California.

Matthew proposed to Cheryl on her birthday in May last year after the couple reignited their relationship in 2017 following almost 10-years apart.

They were first introduced to each other on season 3 of her hit ABC show when his brother, Joey Lawrence, was a contestant on the dancing program.

Forever: Matthew proposed to Cheryl on her birthday in May last year after the couple reignited their relationship in 2017 following almost 10-years apart