Mesut Ozil is closing in on a January loan to Turkish side Fenerbahce, as the Arsenal midfielder looks to get his career back on track.

The former Germany international has had a torrid time of it so far this campaign, featuring very rarely for the Gunners under Unai Emery, while his performances under interim coach Freddie Ljungberg have flattered to deceive.

The 31-year-old has featured 11 times for the north London side in all competitions this season, scoring no goals and laying on two assists for his misfiring team-mates.

Mesut Ozil could be on his way to Fenerbahce as the playmaker edges closes to an Arsenal exit

The 31-year-old has endured a poor season, scoring no goals in 11 games in all competitions

According to Turkish newspaper Fotomac, Fenerbahce are said to be 'very close' to reaching an agreement to bring Ozil to the club for the remainder of the season.

Former Liverpool and Spurs chief Damien Comolli is sporting director with the Turkish giants, and supposedly travelled to London this week to thrash out a deal.

There are said to be a few issues that need to be ironed out but, should those details be attended to, Ozil will join the 19-time Super Lig champions in a temporary switch.

Former Liverpool chief Damien Comolli met with Ozil in London to agree a deal this week

OZIL THIS SEASON Games: 11 Minutes played: 835 Goals: 0 Assists: 2

A move to Turkey has been mooted in the past for Ozil. In 2015, his agent said of a possible move to Fenerbahce: 'If he were to leave then Fenerbahce would be an option. At the end of the day it is a huge club and I think Ozil would say yes to an offer if it come down to it.'

One of Mikel Arteta's first tasks as new Arsenal manager will be to sort out the future of the rapidly declining star man. Arsenal are said to have looked to offload their £350,000-per-week playmaker in the summer, but were unable to attract suitors.

As Sportsmail reported earlier on Thursday, Arsenal are set to announce their former captain Arteta as the new manager, taking over from fellow Spaniard Emery.