They reconciled their romance earlier in the month.

And Jenni 'JWoww' Farley proved her love for Zack Clayton Carpinello was stronger than ever, joining her Jersey Shore family to celebrate his 25th birthday on Saturday night.

The 34-year-old beauty took to Instagram to share a photo from the night which saw Vinny Guadagnino, Mike 'the Situation' Sorrentino and Lauren Sorrentino also join.

Celebrating Zack! Jenni Farley celebrated her on-again boyfriend, Zack Carpinello's 25th birthday on Saturday night with her Jersey Shore cast showing their support and attending as well

'When 24 turns 25. Celebrating at @thebutchersblocknj,' she captioned the post.

Birthday boy Zack was seated at the head of the table while the others sat around him.

Jenni stunned in a black scoop neck top with a jacket over the top. Her brunette hair was styled out and her makeup featured contoured cheekbones with lash extensions.

Sending their love: While co-stars, Snooki and DJ Pauly D weren't in attendance, they took to the comments to wish Zack on his special day

The reality star also shared a photo of her man holding a large plate of uncooked meat.

While co-stars, Snooki and DJ Pauly D weren't in attendance, they took to the comments to wish Zack on his special day.

'I knew this day would come. His name is now officially changed to 25!!! Happy Bday,' wrote the DJ.

Snooki commented: 'WELP I LOVE YOU ALL,' adding a love heart and fire emoji.

Carnivores! Zack and Mike both took a moment to pose with the uncooked meat

Back on: The birthday celebration comes after it was confirmed earlier in the month that the pair had reconciled following a brief split

The birthday celebration comes after it was confirmed earlier in the month that the pair had reconciled following a brief split.

Things took a turn for the worst after an October episode of the show aired which showed footage of Zack getting up and close to her co-star, Angelina Pivarnick while they were at a Las Vegas strip club.

Jenni had passed out from the alcohol when the incident took place.

The mom-of-two took to social media to announce her split following the episode.

'After seeing tonight’s episode I’m pretty hurt,' she wrote.

'I feel disrespected by someone I called a friend and by someone who stated they loved me.

Tough times: Zack and Jenni recently reconciled after they split in October following an episode of Jersey Shore showing the professional wrestler flirting with her co-star, Angelina

'For 5 months I was kept in the dark about this. For 5 months I was naive, probably laughed at and made into a storyline that will forever haunt me.'

She added: 'My heart hurts on so many levels. One thing I learned from tonight’s episode is know your value. Don’t ever lower your standards.'

Zack apologized for what happened on Instagram, writing: 'I made mistakes that I cannot take back, which I take full responsibility for. … I sincerely apologize to Jenni. I apologize to Angelina as well.'

As for Jenni's ex-husband, Roger Mathews, he seems to approve of their relationship and reconciliation.

'We have been getting along great and are coparenting with no issues,' he told Us earlier in the month.

'Also, we went to the kids’ Christmas play together last week — the kids, Jenni, Zack and I. The kids are happy, Jenni and Zack are happy and I couldn’t be happier.'

The ex couple are parents to daughter Meilani, five, and son, Greyson, three.