She has been enjoying Winter sun while she holidays in Asia, escaping the cheating claims that have been circulating in the UK.

And Gabby Allen looked sensational as she shared even more bikini pictures from her travels, the first in a snakeskin turquoise bikini posted on Wednesday.

The Love Island star, 27, flaunted her taunt abs as she posed leaning back for the camera at Finns beach club in Bali.

Abs alert: Gabby Allen, 27, shared yet another racy snap from her long holiday in Bali, wearing a snakeskin turquoise bikini she posed with her arms back flaunting her abs

Wearing her bleach blonde tresses in a top knot she made sure all attention was on her enviable physique.

The second snap posted by the reality star showed her in front of a stunning Bali sunset in a barley-there-black bikini kneeling in the sand.

The blonde beauty wore her tresses loose and wet from the sea with a pair of gold hoops in her ears. She captioned it: '.. feel appreciation for what is and eagerness for what is coming..'

The body confident star shared more bikini videos to her story where she is basking in the sun suitably oiled up.

In one video, where she rolled around in the sand, she wrote: 'not going home ever'

Sunset lover: The second snap posted by the reality star showed her in front of a stunning Bali sunset in a barley-there-black bikini kneeling in the sand

The latest snaps come after she was embroiled in resurfaced claims that she had an affair with Jacqueline Jossa's husband Dan Osborne back in 2018.

It was reported that Gabby's ex, Myles Stephenson, 28, was quizzed about what he knew regarding the claims.

Myles is said to have said he believed the pair DID have a fling, although Gabby has always maintained her innocence.

Holiday mode: In one video, where she is rolling around in the sand, she wrote: 'not going home ever'

Racy: Another snap showed the star is a sexy animal print bikini, back home Gabby is facing cheating rumours from ex Myles who claims she had a fling with Dan Osborne

On Monday, Dan apologised to Jacqueline as he admitted that he has done some things wrong, but didn't specify what was true and what wasn't.

He said: 'So after weeks, months, years of constant articles and rumours, some true, some very untrue.

'I want to publicly say, I know I have made mistakes, we all do as humans, but I've made some that have almost cost me my family.

Rumours: Gabby met Dan (pictured) when they were both on Celebrity Big Brother, the pair have been accused of having a secret affair

'I have seriously learned from these massively, so I want to publicly apologise to my beautiful wife and my family for the mistakes I've made.

'I am the luckiest man in the world to have what I have with Jacqueline and my three incredible children and I will spend the rest of my life being the best husband and dad that I can be.

'Jac, myself and our families are excited for the future, one filled with love and happiness together.

'We truly appreciate everyone that has supported us as a couple, we are ending this year stronger than ever.'