Pete Davidson joined the Weekend Update desk for what was supposed to be a segment on Donald Trump's impeachment, but he really spoke out about his relationship with 18 year old Kaia Gerber.

The 25 year old comedian told Weekend Update host Colin Jost that he doesn't actually know anything about the impeachment, since he's still trying to finish The Irishman, joking that he will need the anti-aging technology they use in the movie before he finishes it.

Jost then asked if he was dating anybody, and while he didn't mention Kaia Gerber by name, he vented about how people hate him for dating famous women, while also hinting at a rehab stint over the holidays.

Scroll down for video

Pete speaks: Pete Davidson joined the Weekend Update desk for what was supposed to be a segment on Donald Trump's impeachment, but he really spoke out about his relationship with 18 year old Kaia Gerber

Happy together: Davidson and Gerber seen together in Miami last month

When Jost asked if Davidson was dating anyone, he said, 'Yeah, it's not fair, Colin. You get to date a famous woman and everyone's delighted,' referring to his relationship with Scarlett Johansson.

'But when I do it, the world wants to punch me in the throat,' Davidson added, referring to his relationship with Gerber, and past relationships with Ariana Grande and Kate Beckinsale.

'If I'm your type of guy that your daughter or mother is into, then trust me, I'm the best case scenario. There are a million guys who look like me and I'm the only one who has a job,' Davidson joked.

Jokes: The 25 year old comedian told Weekend Update host Colin Jost that he doesn't actually know anything about the impeachment, since he's still trying to finish The Irishman, joking that he will need the anti-aging technology they use in the movie before he finishes it

Not fair: When Jost asked if Davidson was dating anyone, he said, 'Yeah, it's not fair, Colin. You get to date a famous woman and everyone's delighted,' referring to his relationship with Scarlett Johansson

Job: 'If I'm your type of guy that your daughter or mother is into, then trust me, I'm the best case scenario. There are a million guys who look like me and I'm the only one who has a job,' Davidson joked

He joked, 'It's like me, or Tyga,' referring to the rapper and ex-boyfriend of Kylie Jenner, before adding that he, 'can't believe you let me do this during the Eddie Murphy episode.'

'So many fans being reminded why they stopped watching,' he joked, as Jost said a lot of people remember him for being the youngest cast member to join SNL since Eddie Murphy, joining in 2014 at the age of 20.

He said that he wishes fans wouldn't because it's, 'mean to Eddie,' adding there was a time when Eddie was in the number 1 movie and number 1 show, while also having the number 1 song at the same time.

Tyga: He joked, 'It's like me, or Tyga,' referring to the rapper and ex-boyfriend of Kylie Jenner, before adding that he, 'can't believe you let me do this during the Eddie Murphy episode'

Reminder: 'So many fans being reminded why they stopped watching,' he joked, as Jost said a lot of people remember him for being the youngest cast member to join SNL since Eddie Murphy, joining in 2014 at the age of 20

'I don't think there was an episode where I was in a live sketch and a video,' Davidson joked, while adding that Jost is, 'rubbing elbows with the Avengers, elbows at least.'

Davidson continues his self-deprecating humor by saying when he's off the show, he's just going to be waiting for, 'Tosh to retire.'

'Hey kids, wanna see a fat kid mess up the national anthem?' Davidson joked, before a Pete.0 logo was shown as Davidson adding, 'Sorry, I don't like that guy.'

Episode: 'I don't think there was an episode where I was in a live sketch and a video,' Davidson joked, while adding that Jost is, 'rubbing elbows with the Avengers, elbows at least'

No Tosh: 'Hey kids, wanna see a fat kid mess up the national anthem?' Davidson joked, before a Pete.0 logo was shown as Davidson adding, 'Sorry, I don't like that guy'

When asked what he's doing for the holidays, Davidson hinted at a rehab stint, without saying it outright.

'Oh I'm going on a little "vacation," where insurance pays for some of it, and they take your phone and shoelaces and you have roommates but it still costs 100 grand?'

Jost said he wanted Davidson to know that a lot of people care about him, and he tries to prove it by reading the first tweet he sees and guessing it will be a positive one.

Rehab: When asked what he's doing for the holidays, Davidson hinted at a rehab stint, without saying it outright

Vacation: 'Oh I'm going on a little "vacation," where insurance pays for some of it, and they take your phone and shoelaces and you have roommates but it still costs 100 grand?'

The tweet he finds is, 'I don't care if he's crazy, I really love Pete Davidson,' as Davidson goes to find a tweet about Jost.

'Colin Jost is so handsome he always looks like he gets the 8 hours of sleep Pete Davidson desperately needs,' Davidson reads.

Jost added that people make fun of him a lot too and Davidson says that's nonsense because he's the 'sweetest man I've ever met,' adding the only way he can picture him having sex is missionary, but he pictures it a lot.

Davidson ends the segment by telling people to, 'see Uncut Gems, Sandler is the man,' referring to SNL legend Adam Sandler.