A former child model has come forward to identify herself as one of the women in a class action lawsuit against Harvey Weinstein, claiming he sexually assaulted herin 2002 when she was just 16.

Kaja Sokola, now 33, says she met Weinstein not long after moving to the US from Poland with dreams of becoming a star.

They met at a modeling party where she told him of her career aspirations.

She had planned to meet him for lunch in New York City to discuss her career but, she alleges, was forced to go to his apartment where he 'aggressively demanded sex'.

She alleges in a lawsuit filed on Thursday that he forced her to remove her clothes, touch herself and touch his penis while he 'grabbed at her breasts', she alleged.

Kaja Sokola, now 33, says she met Weinstein not long after moving to the US from Poland with dreams of becoming a star

Afterwards, she says he blocked her from trying to leave his home then threatened her career.

'Harvey Weinstein made clear that refusing his sexual demands would mean giving up the opportunity to make it in Hollywood,' the lawsuit claims.

The claims are not new - they were first made anonymously in a class action lawsuit against Weinstein which dozens of other women were a part of.

Weinstein settled that case last week for $25million but, under the agreement, he admits no wrongdoing and will not have to pay out of pocket for the settlement.

Sokola, who now lives and works in Poland as a psychologist, said the settlement was an insult.

Sokola is shown in 2010. She eventually left New York and now lives in Poland

She wants to hold him accountable, so has launched her own, separate action and has removed herself from the class action suit.

Lawyers for Weinstein - who is facing trial in January on separate sexual assault allegations - were not immediately available on Thursday when contacted by DailyMail.com.

A source said that Sokola's claims did not have merit and that she and Weinstein met for the first time in 2006.

In a previous rebuttal of her allegations, when they were anonymous, Weinstein's former lawyer Ben Brafman said: 'This claim is preposterous.

'Like so many other women in this case who have already been exposed as liars, this latest completely uncorroborated allegation that is almost 20 years old will also be shown to be patently false.'

Sokola is also filing her lawsuit under the Child Victims Act, a recent law change by Governor Andrew Cuomo which extends the amount of time the victim of such a child sex crime has to report it in civil court.

Previously, victims had until their 23rd birthday to report it. Cuomo has initiated a one-year window for anyone to report any child sex crime in civil court.

In a statement to The Los Angeles Times through her attorney, the woman said she refused Weinstein's class action settlement.

'I cannot accept the proposed "global settlement" as fair or just.

'There is no accountability for the perpetrators, insufficient compensation for all of the victims, and millions of dollars going to people that I believe enabled Weinstein .... I know that this lawsuit cannot erase the pain that I have been living with for 17 years.

'But I do hope to achieve at least some measure of justice that has still been denied to Harvey Weinstein’s many victims,' she said.