Teddi Mellencamp isn't the only one anxious for baby number three to drop, she revealed in an Instagram post on Wednesday.

Son Cruz, aged five, is also ready to meet his baby sibling, and he let his mom know it in an adorable display of kids saying the darndest things.

The reality TV star shared the story with her followers as she showed off her 28-week baby bump.

Kids say the darndest things: 'Today Cruz woke up and looked at me with excitement in his eyes and said, “mommy, are you ready to poop out this baby yet?” #notyetcruz #28weeks @makeupbyhaileyhoff' Teddi Mellencamp captioned her Wednesday Instagram post

'Today Cruz woke up and looked at me with excitement in his eyes and said, “mommy, are you ready to poop out this baby yet?” #notyetcruz #28weeks @makeupbyhaileyhoff' she captioned the post.

The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills member was wearing only a white crop-top tee with her long blonde tresses swept to one side and cascading down her left shoulder.

The sunlight poured into her bedroom and gave her skin a bronzed glow.

Proud parents: Teddi was glowing in winter blue with husband Edwin Arroyave at the People's Choice Awards in November

Teddi, 38, and husband Edwin Arroyave, 42, are expecting a baby girl.

For the couple, finding out they were going to have a third child together came as a huge surprise.

Both Cruz and daughter Slate were conceived via IVF, but this pregnancy seemed to have happened naturally.

'My husband said, "I don’t want to see you going through IVF again — that was brutal,"' the lifestyle coach and daughter of Hall of Famer John Mellencamp told US Weekly.

Bundled up: Teddi's son Cruz climbs in for a photo with his mom at the Disney On Ice Mickey's Search Party at Staples Center in Los Angeles earlier this month

Gang's all here: Teddi, Cruz, Edwin and daughter Slate are all smiles at Disney On Ice

'It was so many rounds, but this time we really weren’t doing anything! I was on vacation! Just having fun with my family! It was a complete surprise.'

As for how the kids are handling the news of another family member, Teddi says they're ready to greet her with open arms.

'They are so excited,' she said. "They've been talking about it for a long time, and actually it's been my son who’s been like, "Mom, we need to have another baby," and I never wanted to get his hopes up.'

'So when we told him, he was through the roof. So excited.'