She recently showed off her incredible figure in a bikini at the beach.

And Elyse Knowles revealed one of the ways she gets into sensational shape on Thursday.

The model and Myer ambassador, 27, shared an impressive video of herself boxing at Counterpunch in Byron Bay.

She's a knockout! Myer model Elyse Knowles showed off her ripped abs in a crop top and shorts during a gruelling boxing session in Byron Bay on Thursday

The blonde beauty was put through her paces by her trainer in the ring, but proved she could certainly fight back.

During her gruelling training session, Elyse showed off her super ripped abs and toned legs in a crop top and a pair of shorts.

The former Block star told her followers that training hard kept her 'sane'.

Train hard! The former Block star told her followers that training hard kept her 'sane'

She's got it! The blonde beauty was put through her paces by her trainer in the ring, but proved she could certainly fight back

Taking a swipe: Elyse certainly worked up a sweat during the intense training session

'There are a couple of things I need to do every single day to keep me sane. 1: Train hard 2:Restore my body with goodness to keep me balanced, energised and healthy with @vitaleveryday 3.Get outside and breath #mothai #boxing #vitalallinone #mindbodysoul,' she wrote.

Elyse first gained attention on The Block back in 2017 with boyfriend Josh Barker, and has gone on to be one of Australia's best known models.

The Instagram star often shares her workout routines against the gorgeous beach backdrop.

She recently demonstrated how she incorporates a skateboard into her stretching and aerobic routine.

She wowed her followers by showing off her super ripped abs and toned legs in a crop top and a pair of shorts.

Popular: Elyse first gained attention on The Block back in 2017 with boyfriend Josh Barker, and has gone on to be one of Australia's best known models

In a series of videos and photos, the model showed fans how they can use the board to lean against while doing leg extensions.

Elyse wrote in the caption: 'Summer favourite toy, for a summer bod bod. Link in website to see more of the workout and my hints and tricks to feel your best'.

She also used the board for push-ups, and held onto it while doing star jumps before diving down onto her arms, still holding the board.

'Favourite toy for a summer bod!' Elyse recently demonstrated how she uses a skateboard as part of her unusual workout sessions in an Instagram video