She claims she has come across as prim and proper during her time on the Celebrity Come Dine With Me Christmas special.

Yet Debbie McGee left her dinner party guests reeling when she divulged a raunchy story about herself and late husband Paul Daniels during Thursday's episode.

Following the main course, the TV personality, 61, suggested a game of true or false where she told two stories and asked her guests to pick which one was correct.

Shocked! Debbie McGee left her dinner party guests reeling when she divulged a raunchy story about herself and late husband Paul Daniels during Thursday's episode

Debbie's guests were reality personality Charlotte Dawson, Dick and Dom, of In Da Bungalow fame, drag queen Courtney Act and Snapchat star Stevo The Madman .

The magician's assistant first claimed that she had an old boyfriend who invited her to Paris, but she stood him up to stay at home and go on a date with his brother.

The guests appeared slightly shocked, but nothing prepared them for the story she was about to recall about herself and Paul.

Raunchy! Debbie said she once lay naked on her bed waiting for Paul to come home with a 'do not disturb' mask across her eyes and a 'disturb' mask across her intimate region

Oh Debbie! The celebrity guests couldn't believe their ears as they were left open-mouthed, gorping at Debbie in amazement following her shocking tale (pictured with the late Paul Daniels in 2008)

Debbie said she once lay naked on her bed waiting for Paul to come home with a 'do not disturb' mask across her eyes and a 'disturb' mask across her intimate region.

The celebrity guests couldn't believe their ears as they were left open-mouthed, gorping at Debbie in amazement following her shocking tale.

Debbie later admitted during a piece-to-camera that she hoped she had shown her guests that she was just as naughty as them.

Unbelievable! The celebrity guests couldn't believe their ears as they were left open-mouthed, gorping at Debbie in amazement following her shocking tale

Red-faced! Debbie later admitted during a piece-to-camera that she hoped she had shown her guests that she was just as naughty as them

One of us! And it appeared to have worked, as Charlotte remarked: 'She's a cheeky gal!'

And it appeared to have worked, as Charlotte remarked: 'She's a cheeky gal!'

The TV personality was married to married to magician Paul from 1988 to his death in 2016, aged 77. He had been diagnosed with an incurable brain tumour a year before his death.

Elsewhere in the show, the group discussed Paul fondly as Dominic Wood admitted he felt like there was someone missing - Paul - at the dinner party.

Debbie revealed that Paul would have loved the evening and said he would have been doing tricks at the table and telling stories.

Cheers! Debbie shared a fist bump with Stevo after she revealed the racy anecdote

Unbelievable! The guests all threw their heads back in shock at the tale

During the conversation, Dom revealed he knew Paul and previously wrote to him to ask for advice with a magic trick during his time as a magician in the magic circle.

He recalled receiving a phone call from Paul soon after where he introduced himself and asked if he'd like to come around to his house for a lesson.

Debbie said she remembered Dom coming around and admitted it was lovely chatting about Paul because it felt like he was still here.