He has long been a fan of the sci-fi series.

And David Walliams went behind the scenes of Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker at Pinewood Studios on Thursday, as he enjoyed a day out with Antony Daniels, who plays droid C-3PO in the long-running franchise.

The Little Britain star, 48, encountered Han Solo's Wookiee sidekick Chewbacca as well as an incredibly true-to-life depiction of Daisy Ridley's character Rey.

Fan: David Walliams, 48, went behind the scenes of the new Star Wars film at Pinewood Studios on Thursday (pictured: The star with Anthony Daniels, 73, who plays droid C-3PO)

Among alien creatures on display were rebel general Admiral Raddus and a six-eyed member of the Azumel species.

David also showed fans the pistol belonging to Han Solo, who was played by Harrison Ford until the character's death in Star Wars Episode VII in 2017.

Documenting the trip on his Instagram page, the star wrote: I can finally post about the best day out ever, visiting the set of @starwars 'The Rise of Skywalker' @pinewoodstudios.'

'My best friend from University Callum Greene is the executive producer of the new film, which is why I was lucky enough to go.

Life-like: The Little Britain star got up close to aliens from the franchise, including a six-eyed member of the Azumel species

In person: The mask of Han Solo's Wookiee sidekick Chewbacca, who makes a return in Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker, was also at the studio

Tribute: Documenting the trip on his Instagram page, the star wrote, 'I can finally post about the best day out ever, visiting the set of @starwars 'The Rise of Skywalker' @pinewoodstudios'

'The film is astonishingly good and it was incredible for me, my son and nephews to see the artistry that went into it.

'It was a childhood dream for me to see @starwars being made and it didn't disappoint. Thank you Callum! xxx,' he added.

David's trip to Pinewood Studios came as the much-anticipated final instalment in the long-running Star Wars franchise was released on Thursday.

Is it you? David encountered an incredibly true-to-life depiction of Daisy Ridley's character Rey

Weapon: David also showed fans the pistol belonging to Han Solo, who was played by Harrison Ford until the character's death in Star Wars Episode VII in 2017

Big eyes: An alien from the planet Mon Calamari looked very real indeed

The Rise Of Skywalker is the last nine movies that first began in 1977 with Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope.

The film hopes to tie together the numerous loose ends that have been left unanswered, from the originals to Rian Johnson's The Last Jedi.

While the plot has to mostly be kept under wraps, it can be said that the film sees Emperor Palpatine return, with Rey and The Resistance trying to find him, while Supreme Leader Kylo Ren (Adam Driver) is also on the trail.

Four eyes! Some of the creatures on display were no more appealing in the flesh than on screen

Cool: David said on Instagram that his trip was the best day 'best day ever'

Soldier: Rebel general Admiral Raddus was among the alien creatures at the studios

It was recently revealed that David's children's books have notched up sales of £100million.

His first book, The Boy In The Dress, was illustrated by Quentin Blake, who collaborated with Roald Dahl in his much-loved books for children.

The Boy In The Dress has so far sold a million copies, while his second book Mr Stink, again illustrated by Blake, won the People’s Book Prize in 2009.

And he is thought to have earned £13million in 2019, a 9 per cent rise against the same period in 2018.

Star Wars has been largely filmed at Pinewood studios since the first film in the franchise (pictured: A set from the new film)

The Beast Of Buckingham Palace is expected to become David's third Christmas number one bestseller – following his 2016 offering The Midnight Gang and 2017’s Bad Dad – adding substantially to his estimated £25 million fortune.

In 2011, Gangsta Granny topped the children’s fiction list, selling more than 1.3 million copies in paperback alone in the UK.

David reportedly earned nearly £15 million from his first five books and having penned the two best-selling children’s books of 2019 so far – Fing and The World’s Worst Teachers – his fortune can only be boosted further by The Beast Of Buckingham Palace.

Exciting: David's trip to Pinewood Studios comes as the final instalment in the Star Wars franchise, The Rise Of Skywalker, was released on Thursday (pictured: John Boyega as Finn in the new film)

Around £10 million of this is believed to have come from his books, with authors typically getting ten per cent royalties, according to The Bookseller.

Passing the £100 million mark in sales has put the Britain’s Got Talent judge in an exclusive club of children’s authors.

He joins the likes of Harry Potter creator JK Rowling, Gruffalo writer Julia Donaldson and Jacqueline Wilson, who penned the Tracy Beaker stories.