Katy Perry embodied holiday spirit when she stopped by Boys & Girls Clubs of Metro Los Angeles on Wednesday.

The 35-year-old was a winter wonderland in white as she hosted Amazon's Delivering Smiles holiday party at the LA Boys and Girls Club, Bell Gardens Clubhouse.

Perry, with help from Amazon, transformed the clubhouse into a Winter-themed extravaganza, complete with candy canes, festive lights, and REAL snow!

Perry Christmas: Katy Perry, 35, was a winter wonderland in white as she hosted Amazon's Delivering Smiles holiday party at the LA Boys and Girls Club on Wednesday

Team work: With a little help from Santa, Perry was able to fulfill the wish-list the Bell Gardens club submitted to Amazon's #DeliveringSmiles campaign

The Roar singer was dressed from head-to-toe in a monochromatic, snow-inspired ensemble that couldn't have been more fitting for the Bell Gardens Clubhouse party.

A large bow sat atop Perry's head, as ostrich feather's lined the cuffs and hems of her matching metallic set.

Known for her retro makeup looks, the songstress took a note from Marilyn Monroe and donned an eye-catching red lip paired with dramatic false eyelashes.

The Bell Gardens clubhouse was revamped completely to provide the children of the Boys and Girls Club with a North Pole inspired setting for the party.

Round of applause: As part of the celebration, the wish-list submitted by the Bell Gardens clubhouse to Amazon's Chartiry, AmazonSmile, was fulfilled entirely with help from none other than Katy

With a hefty amount of REAL snow - extremely rare to Southern California - spread out among the clubhouse, children were able to build snowmen and even take a stab at snow sledding.

Perry couldn't resist letting out her inner child as she took a seat on Santa's lap and took advantage of the manufactured LA snow day.

As part of the celebration, the wish-list submitted by the Bell Gardens clubhouse to Amazon's Chartiry, AmazonSmile, was fulfilled entirely with help from none other than Katy, herself.

Playing around: Katy, 35, couldn't resist letting out her inner child as she took a seat on Santa's lap and played around in the snow

And - to top it all off - each child in attendance received a gift hand-picked by the charitable pop star.

“I loved partnering with Amazon to deliver smiles to the Boys and Girls Club of Bell Gardens today,” the singer expressed in a statement to Just Jared.

Perry added: “We had a magical time getting into the holiday spirit in a winter wonderland of holiday magic filled with Christmas songs and stories, presents and REAL SNOW in Southern California"

KP has been a huge supporter of the Boys and Girls Club organization throughout her career.

In 2017, before she embarked on her Witness World Tour, the Teenage Dream singer encouraged fans to volunteer at their local clubs for the chance to win VIP meet and greets to the tour date of their choice across the US.

Headliner: Katy Perry headlining iHeartRadio Jingle Ball in Minneapolis this month

The singer is closing out her year on a busy note, having just headlined iHeartRadio's annual Jingle Ball, as well as coming off an awe-inspiring performance at FIFA Club Word Cup.

Just last month, the quirky singer released the music video for her Christmas song, Cozy Little Christmas, proving Christmas is her absolute favorite time of year.

The video featured Perry dressed in a variety of wacky Christmas looks, including a candy cane bodysuit, which she showed off on her Instagram page.

Katy Cane: Katy has always been known for her love of confectionery themed attire