Billie Faiers gave her daughter Nelly, 5, and son Arthur, two, the ultimate festive treat on Sunday as they enjoyed a festive family outing at Lapland UK.

The Mummy Diaries star, 29, documented the outing with her husband Greg Shepherd, 33, on Instagram as their children paid a visit to Santa Claus, had a go at making toys and decorated some gingerbread men.

Also among the posts were a fun video of little Nelly having a go at building her own stuffed snowman, as well as one of her and Arthur meeting Father Christmas himself.

Scroll down for video

Fun: Billie Faiers gave her daughter Nelly, 5, and son Arthur, two, the ultimate festive treat on Sunday as they enjoyed a festive family outing at Lapland UK

Among her gallery of snaps, Billie showed both her children heading into the Christmas wonderland, as they had a go at ice skating before Nelly enjoyed an enormous hot chocolate.

Heading into one of Santa's houses, they were greeted by one of his travelling elves, who said they must have been well-behaved children or they wouldn't have been allowed to meet Father Christmas.

Billie then shared a video of her family in Santa's workshop, where they had a go at making their own stuffed snowman and decorated some Yuletide biscuits.

Incredible: The Mummy Diaries star, 29, documented the outing on Instagram with plenty of snaps, including one of her children paying a visit to Santa Claus

Don't fall down! Billie gave little Arthur a helping hand as he had at go at the ice skating, with the toddler grinning with delight

Cute: The Essex beauty's daughter Nelly also enjoyed the fun-filled outing, as she got to go ice skating at the festive wonderland, (left) and make a toy in Santa's workshop

Supportive: Billie's husband Greg Shepherd was also on hand as he helped little Arthur create his own Christmas toy

Cheeky: Nelly showed off her ice skating skills and enjoyed an amazing Christmas treat as she headed to the festive paradise just days before Christmas

The family were joined by Greg's sister Francesca and her own son, and all three children even got to see Santa himself during their trip.

As Santa checked his nice list, Nelly was stunned to see her name had made it, hopefully meaning she would be receiving a present or two this year.

Billie captioned her incredibly festive post: 'We believe in the magic of Christmas... @laplanduk.'

Hilarious: Nelly was treated to the pre-Christmas delight, while little Arthur got his own lollipop after visiting Santa's house

In awe: As they headed into Santa's house, Billie's cute children checked whether their names were on the nice list

Cook in the making: Inside Santa's workshop, Nelly made her own yummy gingerbread men

In awe: Before meeting Santa, Nelly and Arthur also met one of his travelling elves, and were joined by Greg's sister Francesca and her own son (pictured right)

The star is preparing to celebrate Christmas with her family, as fans await another series of The Mummy Diaries with her sister Sam.

The new series is expected to launch in 2020, and Billie and Sam, 28, recently hinted at what could be in store when it does finally air.

Reflecting on the ups and downs of 2019, the pair declared that, even though their partners aren't enthralled by the prospect, it could be time next year for 'baby number three'.

Elf in the making: Inside the workshop Nelly stuffed her very own toy snowman as the family count down the days until Christmas

Both are parents to a son and daughter each, with Sam and partner Paul Knightley raising children Paul, three, and Rosie, two.

Billie's lavish wedding to husband Greg took place in the Maldives earlier this year.

Speaking after tying the knot at the five-star Kuramathi Island Resort, Billie told OK! Magazine: 'Other than the days that Nelly and Arthur were born, it was the best day of my life.

'It was like a fairy tale – all the stress and tears were worth it.'