Supermodel Elle Macpherson has been based in the US since becoming one of the most recognisable models in the 1980s.

But Elle, 55, proved she definitely hasn't forgotten her Australian roots while showing off her Christmas tree on Monday.

The statuesque beauty took to Instagram to unveil her festive tree, which was donned with adorable ornaments of Australian marsupials and birds.

She hasn't forgotten her roots! Elle Macpherson (pictured) has paid tribute to her Australian heritage through decorating her Christmas tree

Festive fun: The statuesque beauty took to Instagram on Monday to share a series of photos of her Australian-inspired tree

'It's an Aussie kinda tree', she caption the picture.

Elle then proceeded to take a photo of each Australian animal decoration, which included a koala, kookaburra, cockatoo and a wallaby. There was also a caravan ornament hanging from the tree.

Among the decorations was a UK flag - which likely commemorates the 10 years she lived there, where she had two children with Arpad Busson.

Elle, also known as The Body, attached a Santa holding a lacrosse stick, a nod to her sons, Flynn, 21 and Cy, 16, who play the American sport.

Aussie favourites: Elle went on to share close up photos of each Australian-inspired ornament including a kookaburra (L) and a koala (R)

Aussie through and through: A baby wallaby (L) and a caravan (R)

A tree with meaning: The businesswoman also gave a nod to her British past, with a UK flag (R) on the tree, which likely commemorates the 10 years she lived there, where she had two kids with Arpad Busson. The Santa holding the lacrosse stick is a tribute to her sons Flynn, 21, and Cy, 16 who play the American sport

In November, the businesswoman revealed the secrets behind her enviable figure.

Sharing a throwback photo of herself in a bikini and posing on a patio in Miami, the actress said she relies on supplements, outdoor exercise, meditation and lymphatic drainage.

'Being Australian, I'm at my most comfortable by the sea,' Elle began her post. 'I'm so blessed to live in Miami close to the Bahamas where this photo was taken.'

One Elle of a body! In November, the businesswoman revealed the secrets behind her enviable figure. Sharing a throwback photo of herself in a bikini and posing on a patio in Miami, the actress said she relies on supplements, outdoor exercise, meditation and lymphatic drainage

Elle says she's often asked how she keeps in shape, and that it starts 'on the inside' with an alkalising greens supplement from her own brand WelleCo.

'I use our clean lean nourishing plant protein as a snack in between plant-based meals, and I spend as much time as I can in nature, swimming and walking.'

The mother-of-two also revealed that she 'drinks loads of filtered water' and spends 10 minutes each day focusing on 'meditation, reflection and prayer'.