Lori Loughlin just wants to enjoy the upcoming holiday with her family.

The embattled 55-year-old 'wants nothing more than to have a wonderful holiday with her family at home,' as she awaits her trial for allegedly bribing officials to get her daughter into USC, according to Entertainment Tonight's sources.

Meanwhile, the outcome of the high profile trial 'is looming over their family' reported the site on Thursday.

'This holiday, [Lori] wants to be with the people she loves most and enjoy the comforts of home,' continued ET's source.

The news comes amid claims Loughlin was duped into the college admissions scheme by mastermind Rick Singer and she believed $500,000 she paid to get her daughters into USC was going directly to the school.

The Full House star and her fashion designer husband Mossimo Giannulli, 56, face 60 years in prison after individuals linked to the college arranged for Olivia Jade Giannulli, 20, and Isabella Rose Giannulli, 21, to be granted admission as fake rowing recruits.

However Singer claims Loughlin led the arrangements and told her daughters 'they needed to do better' in school.

A source close to the actress says she thought the money they allegedly paid via Singer's nonprofit organization, Key Worldwide Foundation (KWF) was going directly towards the California university.

'Lori was hoodwinked by Rick Singer. There's no other way to put it,' a source told People. 'She was convinced that she was making a donation, just like parents have been doing for years.'

Lori Loughlin reportedly believes she was duped into the admissions scheme where she paid $500K to get her and Mossimo Giannulli's daughters Olivia and Isabella Rose into USC

'Lori was hoodwinked by Rick Singer,'a source claimed about the scheme to get her daughters in as fake rowing recruits

The Fuller House star and designer - who is stocked in Target - are charged with money laundering conspiracy, conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud, honest services mail and wire fraud, and conspiracy to commit federal programs bribery.

Approximately 53 people have been accused in Operation Varsity Blues and fellow actress Felicity Huffman recently completed an 11-day stint in jail after she pleaded guilty to paying $15,000 to get one of her daughters into college.

Loughlin - one of 36 parents accused - maintains her innocence.

'She did not have any intent to do something illegal, and in fact she thought she was doing the right thing,' the source continues. 'That's why she hasn't pleaded guilty; frankly, she believes that she is innocent and that the evidence shown in court will prove that.

'Unfortunately, it seems as though the prosecution is hell-bent on making examples out of people, and not playing fair.'

Loughlin has pleaded not guilty and believes she will be found innocent, the source said.

US Attorney claims Singer told the FBI in a November 27 letter: 'Lori Loughlin was in charge and told the couple’s daughters that they needed to do better in high school'

Singer told FBI he didn't have to describe how the scheme worked for Olivia Jade (left) because Loughlin had already done it with her oldest (pictured right on Tuesday)

It's as her lawyers told a court they need 'any statements by Singer as to what he precisely told his clients' USA Today reported, in hope it will prove the college was not bribed, even if they did know about the scheme.

Lawyers plan to use evidence they claim the Justice Department failed to turn over as proof the celebrity couple are innocent.

They have not taken a plea deal, unlike mastermind Singer who admitted his guilt and helped the FBI with the investigation. Thirty people have agreed to plead guilty and 23 of those have upcoming trials.

'Lori Loughlin was in charge and told the couple’s daughters that they needed to do better in high school,' US Attorney Andrew Lelling claims Singer told the FBI in a November 27 letter.

Singer says he also warned Giannulli that a counselor at Marymount High School 'could mess things up' for his daughter as they questioned why she was being admitted as a row recruit when she had no experience.

Coach Josh Adams explained to the FBI that although it's not typical to accept crew team members with no experience, it happens on occasion.

High school dean Jacqueline Landry ultimately told Giannulli that Marymount wouldn't interfere in the application process, according to documents.

But the person close to the actress said: 'She was convinced that she was making a donation, just like parents have been doing for years'

On Friday, the couple's attorneys filed a motion in the case asking a judge to force prosecutors to hand over exculpatory evidence that will show Loughlin and Giannulli believed they were making 'legitimate donations', rather than bribes.

The lawyers, led by Sean Berkowitz, are particularly interested in the FBI's '302 Reports' - a series of statements and interview notes that were taken during the course of the investigation.

'The Government's theory in this case is that Giannulli and Loughlin knowingly bribed a rogue USC administrator in order to secure their daughters' admission to the university,' read the motion filed at Massachusetts' U.S. District Court.

'But the Government appears to be concealing exculpatory evidence that helps show that both Defendants believed all of the payments they made would go to USC itself — for legitimate, university-approved purposes — or to other legitimate charitable causes.

'The Government's failure to disclose this information is unacceptable, and this Court should put a stop to it.

'The Government's failures directly threaten Giannulli and Loughlin's constitutional rights to a fair trial and due process of law'.

The couple's trial is set to start in Boston on January 17, 2020, though the couple is not mandated to attend.

The United States Attorney’s Office in Massachusetts has declined the opportunity to comment.