It's a series that features a slew of flashbacks and flash forwards.

So a dream sequence wouldn't be out of place in NBC's hit comedy-drama This Is Us.

Mandy Moore was looking very retro in a pale pink dress with with a v-neck and beautiful flowers decorating the sleeves and her slender waist when she was spotted filming on Wednesday in Los Angeles.

Maid of the forest: Mandy Moore wore a long pink dress with with a v-neck and flowers decorating the sleeves and her waist as she filmed This Is Us on Wednesday in Los Angeles.

The 35-year-old's brunette tresses were smoothed back from her face in a half up and half down style and she looked distinctly worried as she strolled through the greenery.

Mandy was joined by a very young actress in a frothy pink dress with tulle petticoats making it stand out in a perfect bell shape.

She wore a white knitted matinee jacket done up at the neckline and she smiled as Mandy knelt in front of her with her arms spread open wide.

Mandy plays Rebecca Pearson, the wife of Milo Ventimiglia's Jack and the mother of their children Kate, Kevin and Randall, who was adopted.

Give me a hug: The 35-year-old brunette squatted in front of a young actress wearing a frothy pink dress with tulle petticoats with her arms held out wide as if she wanted a cuddle

They are played by different actors at different stages of their lives.

Meanwhile, Milo, 42, was also on set but he was seen speeding away on his motorbike.

Mandy joked about the range of This Is Us flashbacks on her Instagram, where her character is depicted throughout her life, ranging from her early 20s all the way to her late 60s.

And she posted a photo of herself with both a sheet mask and eye patches in order to look like her character in her younger years.

He's outta there: Milo Ventimiglia, 42, who plays Rebecca's husband Jack, was also on set but he was seen speeding away on his motorbike

'Yesterday I was 69. Today we're going for 23? Cool cool cool,' she wrote while sitting for hair and makeup with her face fully obscured.

This Is Us is currently enjoying a mid-season break but will return to finish up its fourth season on January 14 ,2020.

Meanwhile, Mandy is set to go on tour in support of her new album, When I Wasn't Watching.

The 30-date tour starts on March 20 on Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and wraps in Denver, Colorado on May 9