CHICAGO (AP) - Key dates in the 1964 abduction of Paul Joseph Fronczak:

APRIL 25, 1964

Paul Joseph Fronczak is born at Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago, the son of Dora, 28, and Chester Fronczak Jr., 33. Their first child a year earlier was stillborn.

APRIL 27, 1964

A ruddy-faced woman about 40 years old posing as a nurse takes the baby from his mother´s arms as she is feeding him, saying he had to be returned to the nursery so a pediatrician could examine him. They disappear without a trace. After the abduction is discovered, police are called. A nationwide search ensues.

MARCH 8, 1965

FILE - In this April 30, 1964 file photo, Chester and Dora Fronczak are pictured at a news conference in Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago. Their son, Paul Joseph, was kidnapped from the hospital the day after he was born. A woman in nurse's attire took the boy from the mother's arms midway during feeding, but didn't return him to the hospital nursery. (AP Photo/LO, File)

The Fronczaks file a $1 million lawsuit against Michael Reese Hospital, saying it was negligent in permitting unauthorized people to enter the maternity section.

JULY 2, 1965

A young boy who resembles the missing Fronczak child is found abandoned in Newark, New Jersey. When the baby was abducted, police had said blood type and ear shape were about the only leads they had because the boy was a 99% perfect baby with no blemishes or birthmarks.

JUNE 1966

A lawyer for the Fronczaks and the FBI issue a statement saying that while it has not been established that the Fronczaks are the boy´s parents, neither has the fact been excluded. Reports say 10,000 children had been tested in the two years since Paul Joseph's abduction and all others were excluded.

DECEMBER 1966

Judge James E. Murphy signs an adoption decree awarding custody of the 3-year-old foundling to the Fronczaks. However, police files on the case remain open.

JAN. 11, 1968

The Fronczaks and Michael Reese Hospital reach an out-of-court settlement for an undisclosed amount.

JUNE 2013

Paul Fronczak, 49, a married father working as a college administrator in Nevada, tells the Chicago Sun-Times that DNA testing that year determined he was not the Fronczaks' biological son. Dora Fronczak tells the newspaper: "We went through this once, and we certainly don´t want to go through this again."

AUGUST 2013

The FBI says it is reopening its investigation into the kidnapping.

DEC. 19, 2019

Media outlets report that an adult man living in Michigan may be the abducted child.

___

The AP Corporate Archives contributed to this report.

FILE - In this May 5, 1964 file photo, Dora Fronczak, whose baby was stolen from her arms in Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago, leaves the hospital with her husband, Chester. The baby was 37 hours old when a woman dressed as a nurse entered the room and took the child from Mrs. Fronczak, saying she was taking it to the nursery for examination. No trace of the child has been found since. (AP Photo/Harry L. Hall, File)

FILE - This April 26, 1964 file photo shows new-born Paul Joseph Fronczak shortly after his birth at Michael Reese Hospital in Chicago. The baby was taken from his mother's arms by a woman dressed as a nurse who told her he needed a medical exam and then never returned him to the nursery. (AP Photo, File)

FILE - In this June 17, 1966 file photo, Chester Fronczak stands alongside his auto in Chicago while his wife Dora, sits in the car with a 2-year-old boy the couple is adopting from a Newark N.J. orphanage. The Fronczak's child, Paul Joseph was only 37 hours old when he was taken from Mrs. Fronczak's arms in Michael Reese Hospital in April 1964, by a woman posing as a nurse. He was never seen again. Neighbors say the Fronczaks believe the boy they are adopting is their kidnapped baby. (Chicago Sun-Times via AP, File)

FILE - In this June 17, 1966 file photo, a boy, dubbed "Scott McKinley" by the State Child Service is held by Nurse Lolita V. Tana in Newark, N.J. McKinley has been adopted by Chester and Dora Fronczak, a Chicago couple who believe him to be their son kidnapped in 1964. (AP Photo, File)