Sebastian Stan bared his muscular body in underwear in a sizzling new photo-shoot for Men's Health.

The 37-year-old heartthrob smoldered in an open robe that showed off his physique as he cooled off by stepping into an ice bath.

The Gossip Girl vet also shared inside that being around his 'massive f***ing' Marvel co-stars like Chris Evans inspired him to bulk up.

When you got it, flaunt it: For Men's Health Sebastian stan smoldered in an open robe that showed off his physique as he cooled off by stepping into an ice bath

Sebastian shed light on the rumors that he got too muscular for the prosthetic metal arm he wore in Captain America: The Winter Soldier, such that it had to be expanded for Captain America: Civil War which came out two years later.

In Civil War he was surrounded by sculpted hunks including Jeremy Renner as Hawkeye, Anthony Mackie as Falcon and Chadwick Boseman as Black Panther.

'I was so insecure being around these massive f***ing guys, so I started lifting really heavy and ate a lot,' Sebastian revealed.

'I remember I showed up, and I was a little bit bigger than I had been in The Winter Soldier. The arm was a bit tight, I was losing circulation.'

Hunk and a half: Sebastian is covering the new January/February issue of the mag

Looking fab: He bared his musclebound body as he went shirtless for Men's Health

He confessed however that beefcake stars like Chris Hemsworth and Chris Evans were larger than he ever suspects he will be.

'I mean, next to Evans and Hemsworth and all those guys, I feel like I’m 50 miles behind. I don’t think I can get to that size, to be honest,' he acknowledged.

The Destroyer dreamboat, who prefers quicker more intense workouts to longer more languid ones, said: 'My body right now is probably the best it’s ever been.'

Sebastian has also appeared in darker fare like I, Tonya, as Tonya Harding's husband Jeff Gillooly, who is seen beating her in the film.

Throwback: Sebastian shared inside that being around his 'massive f***ing' Marvel co-stars like Chris Evans inspired him to bulk up; Chris pictured in Captain America: The First Avenger

Remember when: He confessed however that beefcake stars like Chris Hemsworth, pictured in Thor, were larger than he ever suspects he will be

'People always ask me if I’m okay. They’ve said I have "serial-killer resting face,"' Sebastian explained to Men's Health.

'No matter what I do, I’ve always had dark circles under my eyes that never really go away. Lately there might be a little moisturizer happening here and there, just in case. Preserving a couple years, or whatever.'

Martin Scorsese, whom Sebastian hugely admires, has famously been fiercely critical of Marvel movies and said they do not qualify as 'cinema.'

He wrote of Marvel movies in the New York Times: 'What’s not there is revelation, mystery or genuine emotional danger. Nothing is at risk.'

Inspiration: 'I was so insecure being around these massive f***ing guys, so I started lifting really heavy and ate a lot,' Sebastian revealed

Sizzler: 'People always ask me if I’m okay,' Sebastian explained to Men's Health, adding: 'They’ve said I have "serial-killer resting face"'

The GoodFellas director added: 'The pictures are made to satisfy a specific set of demands, and they are designed as variations on a finite number of themes.'

Sebastian said: 'All I know is that all movies affect people. I’ve certainly experienced firsthand many people who have been affected and helped by Marvel movies.'

His upcoming projects include The Falcon And The Winter Soldier in which he plays one of the title characters opposite his pal Anthony Mackie.

He will also appear next year in the Vietnam War drama The Last Full Measure and the psychological thriller The Devil All The Time.

Strenuous: The Destroyer dreamboat, who prefers quicker more intense workouts to longer more languid ones, said: 'My body right now is probably the best it’s ever been'