Travis Kalanick, co-founder and former CEO of the ride-sharing startup Uber, has sold about 90 per cent of his shares in the company in six weeks since a lockup period on the firm's executives expired.

That translates into roughly $2.5 billion in stock sales for Kalanick, who could end up not owning any more stock in Uber by the end of the week if he continues his selling streak at the current rate, reports Forbes.

Kalanick began unloading the stock after the lockup expired on November 6, which allowed executives and members of Uber's board of directors their first chance to sell.

Stocks in Uber, which traded at $41.57 when the company went public on May 10, and which peaked at more than $46 in June, have not done well since.

Shares of Uber were trading about $30 on the New York Stock Exchange Thursday

Shares traded at more than $41 when the company first went public on May 10, and peaked in June at more than $46

Travis Kalanick, co-founder and former CEO of the ride-sharing startup Uber, has sold about 90 per cent of his shares in the company in six weeks since a lockup period on the firm's executives expired on November 6

Shares in the struggling start-up were trading about $30 on the New York Stock Exchange Thursday.

In the month-and-a-half that has passed since the lockup expired, Kalanick's $2.5 billion in stock sales have included $600 million that was set aside by his charitable remainder trust, Forbes reports.

The news outlet estimates that Kalanick is worth about $2.7 billion these days, which is down from $3.5 billion in early October, as reported by the Forbes 400 list.

The majority of his assets are no longer tied to the ride-share company he helped found in 2009 with Canadian entrepreneur Garrett Camp.

Kalanick was forced to resign as CEO in 2017 as the company faced mounting scandals including allegations of sexism, racism and homophobia.

Executives were even telling Kalanick that he was personally poisoning the company's brand.

A video had surfaced showing him yelling at one of his own drivers just before he stepped down, and a survey taken showed that while people liked using the app-based Uber's ride-sharing services, they were effectively turned off by Kalanick.

His quick move to sell large chunks of stock is unusual given that other Uber executives, such as CEO Dara Khosrowshahi, are buying shares, reports Forbes.

Kalanick's quick move to sell large chunks of Uber stock, which are traded on the New York Stock exchange (pictured) are unusual, given that other company executives are buying shares in the firm

Other Uber executives buying shares in the company include current Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi (pictured)

Camp, who is a board member, has sold off about $50 million in stock, and given away 8 million shares, Forbes reports. A representative did not respond when the news outlet reached out.

Representatives for Kalanick and Uber also did not respond to a request for comment from Forbes.