WASHINGTON, Dec 19 (Reuters) - President Donald Trump announced on Thursday that a Democratic U.S. lawmaker who opposed his party's move to impeach the Republican president was switching parties, a day after the House of Representatives approved articles of impeachment.

Jeff Van Drew, who represents a district in southern New Jersey, was at Trump's side when he made the announcement during a White House appearance.

"Very big announcement ... Jeff will be joining the Republican Party," Trump told reporters.

Van Drew said he believed in what Trump was doing with the economy and that the Republican Party is a better fit for him. He told Trump he had his "undying support."

Trump said he would endorse Van Drew in the 2020 congressional election.

A dentist and dapper dresser whose district includes the casino town of Atlantic City, Van Drew, 66, was the first Democrat to represent the area in nearly a quarter-century when he was elected last year.

His defection does not threaten Democrats' control of the House, where they hold a 232-198 majority.

He was one of only two Democrats who voted against both articles of impeachment, which accuse Trump of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress.

Republicans had warned that lawmakers like Van Drew who represent districts that backed Trump in the 2016 presidential election would face a backlash if they supported impeachment.

Van Drew had said he did not think Democrats had made their case that Trump improperly pressured Ukraine to investigate a political rival. He told reporters after the vote that it would boost Trump's prospects in the 2020 presidential election.

Some of his congressional staff quit earlier this week following reports that he would change parties. The Blue Dogs, a group of moderate Democrats in the House, voted on Tuesday to suspend him from the group.

Republicans said his defection illustrated the weakness of the Democrats' case against the president.

"How can you be excited if you started this whole process thinking the outcome would be better, and your own conference got smaller because of it?" House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy told reporters. (Reporting by Jeff Mason and Susan Cornwell; Writing by Doina Chiacu; Editing by Andy Sullivan, Chris Reese and Diane Craft)