A New Jersey woman has been accused of inserting a recording device into her daughter's Minnie Mouse plush toy in order to spy on her ex-husband.

Heather Bamford, 33, was arrested and charged with a wiretap offense and harassment on Thursday, according to Patch.com.

The Hackettstown local is accused of giving the stuffed toy to her daughter before sending her off to spend time with her former spouse, Dominic Bamford.

He allegedly had no idea he was being recorded through the Disney toy before making the chilling discovery on Sunday evening.

Investigators say the he pressed down on the stomach of the Minnie Mouse toy and expected it to talk. However, he instead heard a recording of his daughter's voice.

NewJersey.com additionally reports that the man was also able to hear his own voice when he pushed on the plush toy. He immediately contacted police over the wiretap.

Investigators say Dominic Bamford pressed down on the stomach of the Minnie Mouse toy and expected it to talk. However, he instead heard a recording of his daughter's voice. He's pictured here with his ex-wife, Heather Bamford

Bamford (right) was accused of giving the stuffed toy to her toddler before sending her off to her ex husband, Dominic Bamford's home (left)

The mini mouse toy - similar to the one pictured - was given to the toddler her by her mother

Hackettstown Police have not stated how long they believe Heather Bamford was spying on her ex-husband for.

She has been released from custody and will appear in court at a later date.

The case is strikingly similar to another that occurred a decade ago in Omaha, Nebraska.

Back in 2009, Dianna Divingnzzo was accused of bugging her daughter's teddy bear in order to spy on her ex-husband.

Divingnzzo and her ex were in the midst of a bitter custody battle at the time.

The secret recordings went on for several months, and the former husband only found out he had been bugged when his ex-wife tried to use the tapes in court.

However, her plan backfired when a judge threw out the tapes after saying they were illegally obtained.

In 2011, a judge ordered Divingnzzo and her father to pay her ex $120,000 for bugging the bear.