She rose to fame as a teenage star in the High School Musical franchise.

Ashley Tisdale knows the importance of a proper skincare regime as one of Neutrogena's spokesmodels and she is promoting a new line directed at her generation.

The 34-year-old glowed in a flirty photo spread for the company's Bright Boost line this week.

Glowing: Ashley Tisdale knows the importance of a proper skincare regime as one of Neutrogena's spokesmodels and she glowed in some promo photos for the a new line

Ashley rocked a flirty cream colored dress with 3/4 length sleeves and a delicate pink floral pattern with lace edged ruffles and a matching belt tied in a bow at her waist.

She paired the fun dress with a simple pair of low brown suede chelsea boots.

Predictably, for a skincare shoot, the actress' face was fresh and dewy with simple pink toned makeup.

Her sandy brunette shoulder length hair was blown out straight and tucked behind her ears so the focus remained on her skin.

Glam! Ashley rocked a flirty cream colored dress with 3/4 length sleeves and a delicate pink floral pattern with lace edged ruffles and a matching belt tied in a bow at her waist

Style goals: She paired the fun dress with a simple pair of low brown suede chelsea boots, gold hoops and a simple gold bangle

On social media she wrote: 'Loving this new Bright Boost line by @Neutrogena! It’s made by millennials for millennials who love having brighter skin like me…my favs are the Gel Cream and Illuminating Serum! #BrightBoost #NeutrogenaPartner'

Ashley accessorized with some gold hoops and a simple gold bangle, dangling from one slim wrist.

The star posed in a cream and beige bathroom for the photos and even snapped some shots near huge promotional bottles of the drugstore products.

On social media she wrote: 'Loving this new Bright Boost line by @Neutrogena!

'It’s made by millennials for millennials who love having brighter skin like me…my favs are the Gel Cream and Illuminating Serum! #BrightBoost #NeutrogenaPartner'

Fun fact: Born in 1985, the former Disney star is an older millennial which covers people born between the years of 1981-1996

In her youth: Ashley rose to fame as a teenage star in the High School Musical franchise

Born in 1985, the former Disney star is an older millennial which covers people born between the years of 1981-1996.

Tisdale currently has several projects in the hopper on the career front.

Her new holiday focused sitcom, Merry Happy Whatever, costarring Dennis Quaid is currently streaming on Netflix.

She's also starring in the Patricia Heaton CBS sitcom Carol’s Second Act as Heaton's daughter Jenny.

Busy! Ashley stars in the Patricia Heaton CBS sitcom Carol’s Second Act as Heaton's daughter Jenny