Bill Hader and Rachel Bilson were seen spending time with one another Saturday in his native Tulsa, Oklahoma as they warmed up with coffee at Starbucks.

The Emmy-winning actor, 41, brought his family on the outing with the Hart of Dixie beauty, 38, which came on the heels of an outing the performers were spotted on last month, TMZ reported Sunday.

The stars shared the screen in the 2013 comedy The To Do List; Hader's ex-wife Maggie Carey wrote and directed the motion picture, which also featured Aubrey Plaza, Johnny Simmons, Donald Glover and Andy Samberg.

Heating up winter: Bill Hader, 41, and Rachel Bilson, 38, were seen spending time with one another Saturday in his native Tulsa, Oklahoma as they warmed up with coffee at Starbucks

The Barry actor and Carey parted ways in 2017, the same year Bilson and Hayden Christensen ended their relationship.

Hader and Carey, who were wed for 11 years, share joint custody of daughters Hannah, 10, Harper, seven, and Hayley, five. Bilson and Christensen share daughter Briar, five.

Earlier this year, Hader spoke with Variety in an emotional interview in which he said he was still adjusting to co-parenting in the wake of the split and a packed work schedule at the time filming Barry and It: Chapter Two.

'I think I saw my kids a total of five days all summer. It was terrible,' said the Saturday Night Live alum, vowing to to 'spend every day with them' in the future.

Elegant: Bilson was seen at a polo event in LA this past October

Toast of the town: The Emmy-winning actor was seen in January in Beverly Hills

'It’s this weird thing where when you’re in this industry, you don’t have time to be with them, and it’s really, really difficult. I’m getting emotional right now talking about it.'

Bilson this past summer was believed to be linked to Nick Viall of The Bachelor fame following an appearance she made on The Viall Files (his podcast) and a series of lighthearted social media exchanges between them.

Viall later told People said he was 'not really defining any relationships these days.'