It would be incredibly — almost impossibly — tricky to keep an assembled gingerbread house intact on a flight home for Christmas this December.

But while it would be a major challenge, it's not against the rules.

The TSA announced on Instagram last week that gingerbread houses are, in fact, allowed through the security checkpoint, meaning travelers with a sweet tooth and questionable judgement can bring their pre-made cookie homes onto flights with their carry-ons.

Surprise! The TSA declared on Instagram that gingerbread houses, either assembled or in kit form, are allowed through TSA's security checkpoint

How festive! But, they added, extra icing for touch-ups is only allowed is pre-approved quantities of 3 oz. or less

'Have no fear, because gingerbread houses (either assembled or in kit form) are allowed through the security checkpoint!' read the TSA's Instagram post.

'That also includes the candies that you'd want to use in your decorating.'

But, they added, extra icing for touch-ups is only allowed is pre-approved quantities of 3 oz. or less.

'Just remember that frosting is considered a liquid, so be sure to pack any extra as you would your other liquids,' they said.

There are actually quite a lot of strange things that are surprisingly TSA-approved, and the agency even has handy tool on its website that lets travelers know what can be brought on board.

People can search with the 'What Can I Bring?' tool, or simply peruse the entire eye-opening list on the website.

The rules: The TSA has a handy list on its website of which items are OK and not OK to take on planes

Of course, the list can't possibly include every item — so it stands to reason that those listed are the most frequently asked-about. (For those items not listed, the TSA says travelers should take a picture or send a question to AskTSA on Facebook Messenger or Twitter.)

The list is broken down into what can be brought in a carry-on and what can be checked — and some of the things that can be carried on are quite surprising.

Antlers, artificial skeleton bones, and fishing poles (as well as flies) are all OK to carry on.

Adult toys are fine, as is body armor, a blender (as long as the blade has been removed), coffee makers, kettles, and tortilla presses.

Some inclusions may make a person wonder just how many people have asked, 'Can I bring my tortilla press on board?'

Similarly, Harry Potter wands and lightsabers are allowed.

The TSA ruled: 'Sadly, the technology doesn't currently exist to create a real lightsaber. However, you can pack a toy lightsaber in your carry-on or checked bag. May the force be with you.'

Specifics: The list notes which things are OK in carry-ons, which need to be checked, and which can't come on the plane at all

Dry ice can be brought in the cabin, though passengers are limited to 5.5 pounds. It must also be properly packaged and marked and approved by the airline.

Finally, live lobsters get a thumbs-up from the TSA for carry-on baggage, though the organization notes that the final decision comes down to the airline.

'A live lobster is allowed through security and must be transported in a clear, plastic, spill proof container. A TSA officer will visually inspect your lobster at the checkpoint.'

While the items that can be brought on board might raise eyebrows, those that are banned are equally interesting — in the sense that one might wonder who is trying to bring those things on a plane in the first place.

Fertilizer, moonshine (or any alcohol over 140 proof), cooking spray, and 'recreational oxygen' are all banned, both in carry-on and checked luggage.

Brass instruments are left to the discretion of the airline, while foam toy swords, cast iron cookware, and ice cream must all be checked.

Magic 8 balls are also only allowed in checked baggage. The TSA writes: 'For Carry-on bags: We asked the Magic 8 Ball and it told us… Outlook not so good! For Checked bags: We asked the Magic 8 Ball and it told us… It is certain!'