Belarus has executed a 'beast' convicted of brutally murdering two women who he met at a nightclub.

Alyaksandr Asipovich, 36, had wept in a court glass cage after losing his appeal in May to spare him in Europe's only country still using the death penalty.

A subsequent plea for clemency to strongman president Alexander Lukashenko was also rejected.

Alyaksandr Asipovich, 36, had wept in a court glass cage after losing his appeal in May to spare him in Europe's only country still using the death penalty

Krystsina Krushkina, victim (right) with her sister Irina (left). Krystsina was stabbed 16 times in the head and neck by Asipovich having met him in a nightclub in Babruysk, Belarus

Alesya Klimava, pictured, was beaten at least 77 times with a hammer by Asipovich

The murderer was made the kneel and shot in the back of the head at close range, the customary method of state execution, it is understood.

His death in a Belarus jail was confirmed today by Olga Ivanova, senior state prosecutor Mogilev region.

Victim Alesya Klimava, aged 27, was stuck 77 times by Asipovich with a hammer and his fists, his trial heard.

Her friend Krystsina Krushkina, 26, died from multiple stab wounds.

He had met the women at a nightclub and persuaded them to return with him to his apartment in Babruysk city.

Shortly before they were killed, Krushkina had made a desperate call to Belarus police from the man's apartment to say they were barricaded into a bathroom and he intended to murder them.

Asipovich, pictured, wept when his appeal against his execution was rejected. He was shot in the back of the head in jail, according to authorities

Kystina' smother, pictured, witnessed Asipovich receiving his death sentence following his conviction for the double murders. He had originally planned to dismember the bodies of both girls and dump them

She gave the name of the street but did not know the number of the apartment block.

By the time police tracked down the right address, the women were dead.

Krushkina was killed from 16 stab wounds to her neck and head.

Asipovich, 36, had made plans to dismember their bodies, then dispose of the human remains, but police arrived before he could carry them out, his trial was told.

The killer confessed to murdering the women and showed police how he carried out the killings in a murder reconstruction.

But in his appeal hearing the Belarus Supreme Court he claimed the women had attacked and tried to rob him, prompting gasps from the mothers.

'I am asking to overturn the (death sentence) verdict,' pleaded Asipovich.

But grieving mother Nina Klimava told the three judges: 'To me, he is a beast.

'This was such a horrible murder of my girl – 77 wounds.'

She had not been allowed to see her daughter's brutalised face.

Asipovich had previous convictions for theft, robbery, malicious hooliganism and grievous bodily harm causing death

'I did not even look at her to say goodbye

– her head was smashed to pieces,' she told the court.

'He has not repented.

'He was a beast and he remains a beast.

'The girls called police, they begged for help… but he beat them to death.'

She attacked his plea to live.

'Tell me please, who deserves mercy? This man…..?

'My mother's pain will never stop, even if he is shot. As long as I live I will condemn him.

'I don't wish it to anybody, to face what I had to.

'I think the death sentence verdict is fair.

'The girls suffered so much, they begged him to let them go…'

One judge told her: 'I understand your emotions, please control yourself'.

Asipovich 'wept and asked forgiveness' in a glass court cage on hearing the verdict.

Asipovich had previous convictions for theft, robbery, malicious hooliganism and grievous bodily harm causing death.

Four men were executed in 2018.

No advance details are given on when executions are carried out.