Chris Hemsworth and wife Elsa Pataky have joined his older brother Luke and wife Samantha in Melbourne for a pre-Christmas celebration.

The Thor star, 36, and Spanish actress, 43, were pictured enjoying a leisurely stroll with Luke, 38, Samantha, 39, and all of their children on Sunday.

During the outing, the family took in the sights while walking along the water.

Family time! Chris Hemsworth (pictured) and Elsa Pataky have joined his older brother Luke and wife Samantha in Melbourne for a pre-Christmas celebration

Hollywood star Chris kept a low-profile in a baseball cap and sunglasses, with Elsa also opting for a casual ensemble.

Despite their A-list status, the couple blended in with other tourists and locals as they enjoyed some downtime during the relaxed visit to Victoria.

Chris walked alongside wife Elsa and an unknown family friend.

The couple's children, daughter India, seven, and twins Tristan and Sasha, five, raced around them, having fun with their cousins.

Holidays! The Thor star (right) and Spanish actress (left) were pictured enjoying a leisurely stroll with Luke, Samantha, all of their children and a family friend (centre) on Sunday

Interstate! Actor Luke (second, right) appeared thrilled to have Chris, Elsa and their children visit his home of Melbourne, where he lives with wife Samantha (left) and their three kids

Westworld actor Luke appeared thrilled to have Chris, Elsa and their children visit his home of Melbourne, where he lives with wife Samantha and their three kids.

The star flashed a huge smile as the group enjoyed some quality time together.

Samantha looked chic is flared trousers, a grey T-shirt and stylish sunglasses.

Trendy! Elsa dressed casually for the stroll, while holding hands with one of her twin boys

Casual! Hollywood star Chris kept a low-profile in a baseball cap and sunglasses

Superstar brothers Chris, Luke and Liam are all extremely close to each other.

Although Liam, 29, the youngest of the three, did not join them for the outing, he recently returned to Australia for Christmas with his family.

Last Christmas, the Hemsworths joined Liam in America for his wedding to Miley Cyrus on December 23, at her home in Nashville.