An 85-year-old woman has been arrested for allegedly shooting her roommate and killing another at their Washington state home in what police are calling a 'domestic violence dispute'.

Officers from the Federal Way Police Department in Washington state responded to a 911 call from a woman who reported that she had been shot Thursday morning.

Authorities said the incident occurred near Adelaide Elementary School in the 2000 block of SW 306th Lane, about 23 miles outside of Seattle.

Scroll down for video

An 85-year-old woman (pictured on a stretcher) has been arrested for allegedly shooting her roommate and killing another at their Seattle home in what police are calling a 'domestic violence dispute'

Authorities said in a press release that the 'suspect (pictured) appears to have attempted suicide by strangulation after committing the assaults, but survived'

The suspect is seen being placed in the back of an ambulance following the alleged incident

According to KIRO 7, when police arrived to the scene they found two women in their 30s.

One was deceased and appeared to have suffered blunt-force trauma.

The other victim, who managed to call 911, had been shot. She was rushed to a Harborview Medical Center in Seattle. She is expected to survive her injuries.

Police said the victim who was shot was the roommate of the 85-year-old woman.

Authorities said in a press release that the 'suspect appears to have attempted suicide by strangulation after committing the assaults, but survived'.

Police said they are still investigating the incident and have obtained a search warrant for the woman's home.

'This is a domestic violence situation between roommates and the motive is still unclear,' police added.

A DailyMail.com request for comment from the Federal Way Police Department was not immediately returned.

The other victim (pictured, as she's placed in the back of an ambulance), who managed to call 911, had been shot. She was rushed to a Harborview Medical Center in Seattle. She is expected to survive her injuries

Police said: 'This is a domestic violence situation between roommates and the motive is still unclear'