She has been parading her incredible two stone weight loss in an array of swimwear snaps during her Barbados break.

And Denise Welch, 61, proudly showcased her slimmer figure as she slipped into a red floral bikini for an Instagram on Thursday.

Marking the final day of her holiday, the Loose Women panellist carried a huge pink umbrella and playfully captioned the picture: 'Bringing the brolly home tmrw but not the outfit!!!' (sic).

Beach babe: Denise Welch, 61, posted a bikini picture to her Instagram showcasing her incredible two stone weight loss in a red bikini while on holiday in Barbados on Thursday

'Can’t bear the thought of minus 90 and freezing fog @lighterlife #cbtmindfulness #flexifasting #60isthenew40'.'

Accessorising with a red Louis Vuitton cap and slip on white shoes, Denise looked relaxed and happy as she held up the enormous pink umbrella.

The star credits her amazing weight loss to Lighterlife, after she became a celebrity ambassador for the diet plan and lost two-and-a-half stone in nine weeks.

Beach babe: The Loose Women star has been parading her incredible two stone weight loss in an array of swimwear snaps from her Barbados break (pictured on Tuesday)

60 is the new 40: The TV star captioned the pic 'Bringing the brolly home tomorrow but not the outfit!!!'

Speaking of her body transformation, Denise wrote on Instagram last week: 'Celebrating another year maintaining my 2st weight loss. That’s 6 yrs now!! I look better, feel better and my osteoporosis has almost gone in my knees and lower back.

'Breathing is better as realised that lots of pasta, bread and stodgy foods seem to inhibit my breathing. I still love those things but make better decisions about when to eat them. I use the flexifasting method with @lighterlife and it works for me.'

Denise revealed earlier this year her weight gain was caused by binge eating sugary foods when she quit drinking for good in 2012.

The Loose Women star and husband Lincoln gave up alcohol for good at the time in a bid to save their marriage.

Flaunt it: The actress posted a picture earlier in her holiday wearing a zig zag costume showcasing her cleavage and svelte physique (pictured earlier this month)

She told Broccoli and Brains magazine: 'Until I gave up drinking, I never really had a weight problem. I’d certainly never had a sweet tooth.

'But once I stopped drinking, I started getting massive sugar cravings and the weight started going on.'

Denise got married to second husband Tim in 1988, but the Loose Women panellist went public with their separation on the show in February 2012.

At the time, the TV personality broke down in tears on the lunchtime stalwart as she confessed her 23 year marriage to the actor was over, and it had been for 'some time.' The former flames raise their two children The 1975 frontman Matty, 28, and Louis, 16, together.

Denise started dating her current husband Lincoln in 2011 - but only went public with their relationship in 2012 and married in 2013.

She was was previously married to David Easter from 1985 to 1988.