Hillary and Chelsea Clinton took the stage at Pace University on Wednesday evening for the final stop on their book tour — the same historic night the House voted to impeach the former's political rival, President Donald Trump.

The mother and daughter appeared to be in great spirits as they joined their moderator, singer Vanessa Williams, at the event held at the university's campus in Pleasantville, New York, just four miles away from Hillary's home in Chappaqua.

Hillary, 72, and Chelsea, 39, were promoting their first collaboration, The Book of Gutsy Women: Favorite Stories of Courage and Resilience, but the 2016 Democratic presidential nominee also weighed in on Trump's impeachment while pledging to help 'retire the incumbent.'

Final stop: Hillary and Chelsea Clinton promoted their new book at Pace University's campus in Pleasantville, New York, on Wednesday evening

Candid conversation: Hillary, 72, weighed in on Trump's impeachment while pledging to help 'retire the incumbent'

Taking the stage: Hillary stressed that Trump used the office of the president to further his own personal political objective

'It is a story of abuse of power, using the office of the president to further not the nation's objectives but his own personal political objectives,' said Hillary, who lost to Trump after winning the popular vote by three million.

Historic: The event took place on the same night the House of Representatives voted to impeach Trump

'The facts are not at dispute. This is not a he said, she said. This is what happened,' she added.

'It's really important to me that I do everything I can and make sure that we retire the incumbent regardless of what happens.'

Hillary wore a navy blue A-line coat with gray circles to her book tour stop on Wednesday.

She paired the eye-catching number with straight-leg black dress pants, while her daughter looked youthful in a black T-shirt and plaid winter wool skirt.

Despite the temperature being below freezing, Chelsea shunned tights and opted to leave her legs bare for the evening event.

The former first daughter, who tends to favor her beloved nude heels, switched up her look and donned a pair of classic black pumps.

Discussion: 'The facts are not at dispute. This is not a he said. This is what happened,' said Hillary, who lost to Trump after winning the popular vote by three million

Views: Chelsea, 39, said the current climate in the United States is not the world she wants her children to grow up in

Happy to be there: The mother and daughter appeared to be in great spirits during the final stop on their book tour

The mother-daughter duo's new book contains portraits of more than 100 women who inspire them, including Harriet Tubman and Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg.

While speaking about the struggles faced by the women they wrote about, Chelsea compared them to the current climate in the United States.

'Optimism is a moral choice, and I just think we have to make the moral choice to be optimistic because this is not the world, it is so fundamentally not the world I want for my children or any child to grow up in,' she said.

Hours before finishing up the last leg of her book tour, Hillary gave a thumbs up to President Trump joining the impeachment club, of which her husband is the most modern member.

Famous face: The event was moderated by singer Vanessa Williams, who sat to Hillary's left

Taking the stage: Chelsea donned a black T-shirt and plaid winter wool skirt, which she paired with classic black pumps

Eye-catching: Hillary wore a navy blue A-line coat with gray circles and black dress pants

'Impeachment is the only remedy,' she declared on Twitter.

'One of our most precious rights as Americans is the right to determine who our leaders are,' she stressed.

'The president abused his powers to cheat in the next election and rob us of that right,' she wrote. 'Then he obstructed Congress to cover it up,' reiterating the two articles of impeachment that the House of Representatives was to vote on.

Hillary was first lady when her husband, President Bill Clinton, was impeached in the House for lying to a grand jury under oath in 1998 about the affair he had with former White House intern Monica Lewinsky. He was acquitted in the Senate in 1999.

Next up: Hillary had a smile on her face as she waved to her supporters in the crowd

Taking sides: Hours before finishing up the last leg of her book tour, Hillary gave a thumbs up to President Trump joining the impeachment club

'Feel proud': On Thursday morning, Hillary tweeted about holding Trump accountable

Looking back: Hillary was first lady when her husband, President Bill Clinton, was impeached in the House for lying to a grand jury under oath in 1998

The House of Representatives impeached Trump on Wednesday evening, making him the third president in history to be charged with committing high crimes and misdemeanors.

The largely party-line vote capped off a three-month investigation into the president's actions in regard to the Ukraine.

It came at the end of a day-long partisan debate on the House floor with Republicans charging Democrats with wanting to overturn the last presidential election and Democrats arguing the president tried to use a foreign power to help him win re-election.

The Senate will hold a formal trial next year to decide whether to acquit Trump or convict and remove him from office.

Hillary returned to Twitter on Thursday morning to celebrate Trump's impeachment.

'The president has abused his power—using his office to further not the nation's objectives but his own personal, political objectives—and, together, we are holding him accountable. Feel proud. Keep going,' she wrote.