Top NBA prospect James Wiseman has left the University of Memphis to prepare for the 2020 draft after being suspended 12 games by the NCAA for receiving an improper benefit from his high school and college coach, former Orlando Magic star Anfernee Hardaway.

The 7-foot-1 freshman center announced his decision Thursday on Instagram.

'Today I formally withdrew from the University of Memphis and I will be preparing for the next chapter of my life,' he wrote. 'Ever since I was a little kid, it's been a dream of mine to play in the NBA.'

Hardaway tried to convince Wiseman to stay at Memphis, but was ultimately unsuccessful, according to Shams Charania of The Athletic.

Wiseman, the No. 1 overall recruit in the Class of 2019, averaged 19.7 points, 10.7 rebounds and 3.0 blocks in just three games with the Tigers.

According to Spotrac.com's Michael Ginnitti, who reports on athletes' contracts, Wiseman can expect his first NBA deal to be worth around $24 million guaranteed.

Top NBA prospect James Wiseman has left the University of Memphis to prepare for the 2020 draft after being suspended 12 games by the NCAA for receiving an improper benefit from his high school and college coach, former Orlando Magic star Anfernee Hardaway

Since mid-November, he has been serving the 12-game NCAA suspension after an investigation revealed he and his family received impermissible benefits when Hardaway, a Memphis native and former Tigers player, provided $11,500 to help Wiseman and his family move from Nashville in 2017.

Wiseman was also instructed by the NCAA to donate $11,500 to a charity of his choosing, but it's unclear if he still plans on doing so.

Hardaway previously coached Wiseman during the 7-foot-1 center's senior year at Memphis' East High before the two moved on to the University of Memphis, where the retired NBA All-Star played in the early 1990s

Hardaway previously coached Wiseman during the 7-foot-1 center's senior year at Memphis' East High School before the two moved on to the University of Memphis, where the retired NBA All-Star played in the early 1990s.

The assistance was given to Wiseman's mother, Donzaleigh Artis, and was unknown to Wiseman, according to the school.

'This was not how I expected my freshman season to be, but I'm thankful for everyone who has supported my family and me throughout this process,' Wiseman wrote.

'I want to thank the coaches and staff for all their support and my teammates for pushing me everyday at practice. I feel blessed for the opportunity to be a Tiger and for having the honor to play with these special group of guys. I can't wait to see what all they accomplish this season. The friends and fans of Tiger Nation will always hold a place in my heart.'

The 7-foot-1 freshman center announced his decision Thursday on Instagram

Wiseman would have been eligible to return to the Memphis lineup on January 12.

Hardaway has not been punished by the NCAA for his role in the improper payment.

The NCAA prevents student-athletes from being compensated for playing their respective sports, so many objected to the organization's demand that Wiseman 'donate' $11,500 to a charity.

As attorney and Sports Illustrated legal analyst Michael McCann objected to the fine on Twitter: 'Instead of being forced to donate $11,500 - and that isn't really a 'donation' since 'donate' is normally seen as a voluntary act - James Wiseman could leave college & turn pro, and make money rather than having to 'donate' it as an 'amateur' athlete, whatever 'amateur' now means.'

Indiana Pacers legend Reggie Miller also weighed in, criticizing the NCAA for its decision: 'What a minute, so James Wiseman is suspended 11 more games, and he or family must pay $11,500 to a charity of their choice? Or Memphis will pay the money? How is the family going to pay this when they had problems moving in the first place?? Asking for a friend...'

Hardaway tried to convince Wiseman to stay at Memphis, but was ultimately unsuccessful, according to Shams Charania of The Athletic

According to Spotrac.com's Michael Ginnitti, who reports on athletes' contracts, Wiseman can expect his first NBA deal to be worth around $24 million guaranteed

In a statement, the NCAA defined Hardaway as a school booster, which is significant because boosters are not permitted to offer any financial assistance to players.

'The benefit was impermissible because of Hardaway's status as a Memphis booster,' read the NCAA statement. 'Hardaway had made donations to the school in the past, including $1 million to help build the Penny Hardaway Athletic Hall of Fame at the school. Boosters cannot provide financial assistance to prospective student-athletes, their family members or friends unless that assistance is generally available to other members of the student body and is not given based on athletics ability.'

Unlike previous years, many of the top amateur prospects are not playing in the NCAA ahead of the 2020 NBA Draft.

As the NCAA has faced criticism for its rules on amateurism, which forbid players from being compensated, players like LaMelo Ball and R.J. Hampton have gone to play overseas professionally.

Now Wiseman is giving up on college basketball, which will help him avoid a potentially costly injury ahead of the draft.