She's known for her polished style and impeccable glam.

But Kim Kardashian seemed to be incredibly relaxed as she left a photo shoot in Los Angeles on Thursday morning.

The 39-year-old influencer rocked a cream-colored sweatsuit and carried a massive, $70,000 Hermes Birkin bag while leaving Milk Studios in the heart of Hollywood.

Out and about: Kim Kardashian seemed to be incredibly relaxed as she left a photo shoot in Los Angeles on Thursday morning

Kim bared her makeup-less complexion as she made her way through the lobby of the coveted studios.

She made sure to rock her husband's infamous fashion line, Yeezy, by wearing a oatmeal toned sweatshirt with matching pants.

Sticking to the beige theme, the mother-of-four added a pair of ankle socks and Yeezy slides to her casual ensemble.

Beauty: The 39-year-old influencer rocked a cream-colored sweatsuit and carried a massive, $70,000 Hermes Birkin bag while leaving Milk Studios in the heart of Hollywood

Hard at work: Kim bared her makeup-less complexion as she made her way through the lobby of the coveted studios

Proud wife: She made sure to rock her husband's infamous fashion line, Yeezy, by wearing a oatmeal toned sweatshirt with matching pants

The Keeping Up With The Kardashians star showed off her bold brows and slicked back her chocolate brown hair into a tight bun.

She carried a light brown Hermes Birkin bag by her side, which retails for a staggering $70,000 and is one of many in her luxurious closet.

Kim's riding another wave of success with her latest SKIMS launch of plush shearling sleepwear.

Cozy: Sticking to the beige theme, the mother-of-four added a pair of ankle socks and Yeezy slides to her casual ensemble

Posh: She carried a light brown Hermes Birkin bag by her side, which retails for a staggering $70,000 and is one of many in her luxurious closet

In the past: Kim caught some controversy this summer when she introduced her shapewear line and titled the collection Kimono, which many fans pointed out she was appropriating the traditional Japanese garment

She initially launched the Cozy Collection on Dec. 9, and fans were enamored with the line making it sell out in minutes.

Kim caught some controversy this summer when she introduced her shapewear line and titled the collection Kimono, which many fans pointed out she was appropriating the traditional Japanese garment.

She changed the name after sparking backlash, and admitted she's always evolving as a creator.

'I am always listening, learning and growing — I so appreciate the passion and varied perspectives that people bring to me,' she wrote on Instagram. 'When I announced the name of my shapewear line, I did so with the best intentions in mind.'