A male trespasser has been arrested after being spotted climbing up a wall on Cara Delevingne and Ashley Benson's property.

Police were alerted by a neighbor that they saw a man climbing over a wall 27-year-old Supermodel's home which she shares with the 29-year-old actress according to a report from TMZ on Thursday.

The incident occurred at around 11am in Los Angeles on Wednesday after the person who lives close by alerted authorities.

Sad: A male trespasser has been arrested after being spotted climbing up a wall on Cara Delevingne and Ashley Benson's property according to TMZ Thursday, they are seen in New York back in September

Law enforcement were quick to arrive at the scene with a helicopter and several squad cars as they spotted the man on property.

According to the publication, the police found a man by the name of Sedric Ruempker who was arrested for misdemeanor trespassing.

He never actually made it inside of the home and the stars were not home at the time.

Tough: The incident occurred at around 11am in Los Angeles on Wednesday after the person who lives close by alerted authorities, the couple are seen in Paris back in June

Law enforcement sources for TMZ say that it is unclear whether or not the suspect chose the celeb home by chance or if he was specifically targeting it.

This incident comes after Cara and Ashley were forced to up security at their LA mansion after a male stalker was caught creeping around on security footage, according to reports.

The supermodel and her actress partner are said to have been left 'hugely unsettled' by the sight of the unidentified man looking around the $2 million home.

A source told The Sun said: 'The stalker has really creeped her out. He was caught on camera looking around and Cara has been quick to respond, upping security on the property.

Family first: Cara's sister Poppy, 33, (seen here earlier this month in London) and her husband James Cook also both live at the house, which the British celebrities bought from actor Jared Leto in 2017

'It's hugely unsettling and is every celebrity's worst nightmare.'

The home is modeled on the Playboy Mansion and boasts a swimming pool, a soundproof party basement as well as a pole dancing area and bar.

Cara's sister Poppy, 33, and her husband James Cook also both live at the house, which the British celebrities bought from actor Jared Leto in 2017.

The home is modeled on the Playboy Mansion and boasts a swimming pool, a soundproof party basement as well as a pole dancing area and bar.

Cara and Ashley have been dating since May 2018.