Joseph Segel, the entrepreneur who founded QVC and Franklin Mint, has died aged 88

Joseph Segel, the 'quintessential entrepreneur' who founded the home-shopping network QVC, has died aged 88 due to congestive heart failure.

Mr Segel died Saturday in Gladwyne, Pennsylvania, QVC's parent company said.

The shopping channel launched in 1986 and was played by nearly 60 cable stations. It now reaches 380 million homes throughout the world.

'Joe Segel was a remarkable leader, entrepreneur, marketer, teacher, and friend', Mike George, the company's chief executive and president, said.

The pioneer started his first company aged just 12, selling business cards to local companies.

Before he left college he was already running four enterprises and had success in publishing, marketing and minting, but he also created photography, aviation, and software companies, according to The Philadelphia Inquirer.

He even turned his hand at transforming an old retirement home into a top-rated luxury hotel in the Swiss Alps.

His son Alan said: 'He was universally admired and respected in every industry he touched.

'He only left a trail of happiness, wealth and success for others. That's his legacy.'

After graduating from the University of Pennsylvania, he enrolled at the prestigious Wharton School to get an MBA but dropped out.

Mr Segel then went on to create the Franklin Mint which made coins and other collectibles.

QVC launched in 1986 and was played by nearly 60 cable stations. Pictured is actor Jamie Foxx selling sunglasses on the shopping channel

His success led him to being appointed by President Gerald Ford as a member of the US Delegation to the UN General Assembly where he served under Henry Kissinger.

But arguably his biggest accomplishment was QVC which launched in 1986 and in its first year registered $112million in sales.

'He was a visionary whose ideas changed the way the world shops,' said Mike George, CEO of Qurate Retail, Inc., a media company that includes QVC.

Mr Segel also founded Franklin Mint which produced coins and souvenirs such as this Princess Diana doll and commemorative plate

'He instilled the importance of customer focus and putting the customer first in everything we do. These founding values and Joe's trailblazing spirit are still very much a part who we are today.'

In 1993, Segel retired as chairman of QVC. He stayed on as a company adviser until 2013.

But even in his retirement he founded six other companies mostly focused on beauty.

Mr Segel is survived by sons Alan and Marvin, stepdaughter Sandy Stern, six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.