Bridget Johnson, 59, has been sentenced to 15 years in prison

A divorced woman who was desperate for love has been jailed for 15 years after stealing $4million from her employer which she gave to an online conman she met on Match.com.

Bridget Johnson, 59, is a divorced mother-of-two from Kentucky.

She stole $4million from the Northern Kentucky Convention and Visitors Bureau over a period of several months to give to the man she had met online.

It began in 2017 when the pair met on the popular dating website.

He told her that he was traveling for work and could not get to her unless she wired him money.

The first transaction was for $6,000. Johnson then drained her personal bank accounts and 401k of $250,000 to give to the man.

When her own money ran out, she started taking money from the Convention and Visitors Bureau.

Over 16 months, she took $4,049,421 from the business. She told police she thought she would be able to pay it back once her online boyfriend got the money back to her.

It is unclear how police found out about the scam but Johnson was arrested last November.

She had been writing checks to people, at the advice of the conman, from her employer's account then marking them as having been for services rendered.

None were legitimate.

At first, police said they were unsure if they could believe that she too had been the victim of a crime.

Bridget stole the money from the Northern Kentucky Convention and Visitors Bureau where she'd worked for 20 years

They however arrested one of the men involved - Kevin Tasher - in June this year.

The Brooklyn man was arrested in the Bahamas. He told police that he'd been contacted from someone in China who said they needed his help doing business.

The conman used people like Kevin Tasher (shown) who he would pay to set up bank accounts for Johnson to transfer the money to. They then sent the money to him in China

If he could send them money from an account he set up, he could keep some of it, the person said.

Tasher kept around $100,000 of $1.1million that was deposited in the account he set up.

The rest of the money was funneled through other accounts which all lead back to China.

Police have not made any other arrests.

Instead, police say she was dealing with a sophisticated network of scammers who operated bank accounts around the world.

Johnson, they said, would have been a victim of one of the worst crimes prosecutors had ever seen if she hadn't started stealing.

'She was a fool, she wasn’t a mastermind,' Kenton County Prosecutor Rob Sanders said after her sentencing.

'I think this guy found himself the golden goose when it came to theft victims.

Prosecutors said Johnson was a 'fool' and 'not a mastermind'. She is shown in court

'She was just the gift that kept on giving, for quite some time,' he added in comments to The Daily Beast.

Sanders says he fears there may be other victims involved.

The woman's employer said they were grateful to police.

She started speaking to the conman on Match.com

'The entire board and staff of meetNKY would first like to thank and recognize the job done by the Covington Police Department and Commonwealth’s Attorney office in prosecuting this crime.

'The past year for meetNKY has been very tumultuous and challenging dealing with the betrayal and crime of a long time employee. The organization has continued to enhance its internal controls to further the mission of meetNKY.

'While dealing with the sad outcomes of this crime, the bureau has also stayed laser focused on our mission of providing a measurable economic impact on the Northern Kentucky economy, providing best of class services for visitors to our region and celebrating another record breaking year of results in our three counties.'

Authorities continue to investigate.