Democrats preparing for Thursday night's presidential primary debate at Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles got a shock Thursday morning when street artists placed 20-foot letters spelling 'TRUMP 2020' on a hillside where the school's initials—LMU—have stood since 1973.

The vandals, an anonymous group calling itself 'The Faction,' host an Instagram page bearing the message 'Right Wing Street Art' and a motto: 'We bring uncomfortable truths.'

A representative of the group told DailyMail.com that the rogue sign stayed up for about an hour before university workers were dispatched to dismantle it.

'The candidates at tonight's debate think that California is a safe space. They are wrong,' the group said in a statement.

Street artists calling themselves 'The Faction' put 20-foot-tall 'TRUMP 2020' letters on a hillside where Loyola Marymount University's monogram has stood since 1973

This photo shot from atop a building across the street to the west shows the scale of the giant fabric letters; pictured is a Loyola Marymount worker before he removed the letter P of 'Trump'

Democratic presidential candidates (L-R) Sen. Amy Klobuchar; South Bend, Indiana Mayor Pete Buttigieg; Sen. Elizabeth Warren; former Vice President Joe Biden; and Sen. Bernie Sanders are among the seven candidates debating at LMU. They are pictured at the November 20 primary debate in Atlanta

'We are all tired of what progressives have done to our state and country. Don't get comfortable; the Golden State still has teeth.'

Seven Democratic White House hopefuls will square off Thursday night at LMU. An eighth, California Sen. Kamala Harris, qualified but dropped out of the race before what would have been a homecoming.

The Faction has tweaked liberal politicians and news organizations in recent months.

One project was an anti-CNN billboard near the news network's Hollywood headquarters.

The artists commandeered the giant sign, which was advertising a marijuana dispensary, and plastered over it with CNN CEO Jeff Zucker's face and a claim that the channel's monogram stands for 'Communist News Network.'

'The Faction' identifies itself as a group of 'Right Wing' street artists and says, 'We bring uncomfortable truths'

California is known as a home to liberal politics but The Faction, whose members remain anonymous, support the president

The group commandeered this billboard in February to clobber CNN president Jeff Zucker for his network's coverage of Trump's summits with North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un

The LMU letters are seen on Thursday morning with the university's buildings and palm trees behind them

The rogue art appeared in late February after CNN hosts pilloried President Donald Trump for attempting a series of summits with North Korean dictator Jim Jong-un.

'Keep Korea divided,' it read, 'Because OrangeManBad.'

A member of the group told The Hollywood Reporter at the time: 'When Trump speaks glowingly of Kim Jong Un it's a tactic. Zucker and his journo-activists know this, but are more than willing to try to torpedo the summit—the future of the long-suffering North and South Korean people be damned.'

The Faction also plastered the Hollywood Walk of Fame with faux stars honoring Trump after the real one became a magnet for public vandalism.