A YouTube star with ten million followers has pleaded guilty to allowing his Alsatian to run out of control after the guard dog savaged a pensioner who walked into the grounds of his sprawling home to retrieve a parcel.

Oladeji Olatunji, 23, known as Deji on his YouTube channel where he airs videos of stunts and pranks, was fined £2,500 for the attack by the dog Tank last year that left the grandmother with horrific bite wounds to her legs.

The dog faces being destroyed - with Olatunji, brother of social media star KSI, taking to his channel begging for help to save the animal's life.

CCTV at Olatunji's home in Peterborough, Cambs, captured the vicious attack on July 23 2018 when grandmother Jennifer Selby-Springthorpe, whose daughter lived next door, walked in the gated property.

She had collected a parcel delivered there and was leaving the driveway when 13-month-old Tank broke free and raced across the gravel to maul her.

The German Shepherd bounds towards the grandmother on the driveway of Oladeji Olatunji in Peterborough, Cambridgeshire

Newly released CCTV footage from the driveway shows Tank bounding towards the woman and barking fiercely.

The dog snaps at Ms Selby-Springthorpe's leg as she tries to swat him away with her parcel.

Suddenly the victim's daughter is seen running across the driveway to her mother's aid.

Ms Selby-Springthorpe manages to escapes through the automatic iron gates yet she is followed by the dog.

Oladeji Olatunji, 23, and his mother Olayinka Olatunji leaving Cambridge Crown Court on Tuesday who also plead guilty to two counts of the same offence at an earlier hearing

The dog snaps at Ms Selby-Springthorpe's legs and continues to bark as she tries to swat it away with her parcel

The electric gates open and Ms Selby-Springthorpe manages to escape but is followed out by the dog

Ms Selby-Springthorpe's daughter rushes over to her mother's aid as the dog continues to interrogate her

As her daughter attempts to chase off Tank, Ms Selby-Springthorpe disappears behind the wall where the viscous attack took place.

German Shepherd Tank who was 13 months at the time of the attack

The dog bit her several times and efforts by Olatunji and his mother Olayinka Olatunji, 53, who also lived at the property, to bring the dog back under control failed.

It later attacked her son-in-law, Paul Ward, who fortunately suffered no serious injuries due to the clothes he was wearing.

The dog was finally dragged inside by Oladeji Olatunji's father.

Horrifying photos show multiple puncture wounds suffered by Ms Selby-Springthorpe, including extensive, dark purple bruising, and scratches to her legs and chest.

She was taken to the Peterborough walk in centre for treatment but collapsed days after the incident when the wound became swollen and infected.

The dog owner's brother is gaming YouTube star Olajide William Oltunj, 26, known as KSI, has 20.8million subscribers and raked in £700,000 after winning a fight against a fellow Youtuber last month.

The footage comes after KSI went up against arch rival and American Youtuber Logan Paul in a highly-anticipated fight last month at the Staples Center in Los Angeles.

The victim's injuries following the attack showing multiple puncture wounds (left). She was twice admitted to hospital after her injuries became swollen and infected (right)

Youtuber KSI (pictured) is the brother of dog-owner Oladeji Olatunji

The pair met to settle their beef following their draw at Manchester Arena in August 2018.

This time the YouTube stars did not wear headguards and donned 10 oz gloves for the six-round contest which was promoted by Eddie Hearn's Matchroom Boxing.

The fight was won by KSI in a split decision of 56-55 in favour of Paul while the other two judges scored 57-54 and 56-55 for KSI.

KSI said: 'Last year I was scared. This time I just kept going and going.

'They saw how much bigger he was, but I was like 'screw that, I'm going to work my a** off!'

'Your boy has done it. I am victorious!'

The Youtubers earned an eye-watering £700,000 each in the six-round cruiserweight contest according to the California State Athletic Commission.

KSI has defeated Logan Paul in a split decision victory in their YouTube grudge match

It was another closely-fought contest, this time without headguards, as the internet sensations battled it out for bragging rights in front of millions across the world

The pair also split the portion of ticket sales, sport streaming service subscriptions for DAZN and PPV purchases, according to The Sun.

In September, Olatunji pleaded guilty to being in charge of a dog dangerously out of control.

It follows his mother, Olayinka Olatunji, pleading guilty to two counts of the same offence at an earlier hearing - at which point the YouTuber denied the charges.

The dog was seized from kennels by police on 28 July 2018.

The 22-year-old Deji and his 53-year-old mother came before Judge Farrell for sentencing at Cambridge Crown Court on Tuesday.

Judge Farrell addressed Deji Olatunji about the lack of remorse shown after the attack.

A picture of the judge's scorecards, with white and blue both in favour of KSI and red for Paul

Paul fired back in the fourth round to floor KSI but a follow up punch would prove to be costly

Logan Paul (right) mocks and imitates KSI (left) while promoter Eddie Hearn (centre) looks on after the official weigh-in at L.A. Live Xbox Plaza in November

Deji Olatunji was fined £2,500 and ordered to pay £5,845 in kennel costs along with prosecution costs and a victim surcharge.

Olayinka Olatunji was given a 12-month community order with 80 hours of unpaid work, ordered to pay £8,000 in compensation to the victim and £2,082 in kennel costs.

Judge David Farrell QC commented that CCTV showed the dog was 'completely out of control.'

Olajide William Oltunj, 26, known as KSI, is from Watford, Hertfordshire. Olajide has a net worth of £4 million and in 2016 he was crowned Vlogger of the Year at the NME awards

Speaking about how the incident unfolded Judge Farrell added: 'The events that gave rise to the charges occurred outside your home involving your Alsatian dog who was 13 months old at the time.

'He came out your home and attacked your neighbour who was led into your driveway area to pick up a parcel.

Logan Paul at the official weigh-in at the Live Xbox Plaza in Los Angeles in November

'Jennifer had therefore been invited in and as she was about to leave, the automatic gates closed, trapping her in the driveway area while your dog, Tank, escaped and then viciously attacked her.

'It's clear from the CCTV that was operating in the area from your premises that the dog was completely out of control and you, Olayinka, were totally unable to exercise any control over him.'

He said: 'You, Deji denied the matter and showed no remorse whatsoever at that point. In fact your behaviour on your blog demonstrated quite the opposite.

'You made false allegations about the police being racist and went on to constantly post videos in reference to your neighbours and called the lady who was injured dumb, a b****, an idiot and so on.

'You also said the dog only acted in self defence and it was only a nip and if it wanted to rip her leg off it would have done so.'

In his final remarks to the court and the defendants, Judge Farrell told Deji: 'I take the view your nature of behaviour towards the victim as set out in the YouTube videos I have seen indicated and shows a complete lack of remorse.'

The pair were not prevented from owning a dog in the future.

The judge said: 'Both of you, I take the view that you have both learnt a great deal as a result of these proceedings and the mistakes which were undoubtedly made in the way Tank was trained or rather lack of it and the way he was dealt with is something you would not now repeat.

'You have learnt from all your contact from experts in this case how dogs should be trained and the potential danger should he fail to be kept under proper control.

'For that reason I am not going to make an order preventing you from have a dog in the future.'

Both defendants were also issued with a restraining order not to contact the victim either in person or referencing her on social media for a period of four years.

Judge David Farrell ordered the star's dog Tank should be destroyed, the force said.

It comes as the Youtuber appealed to his millions of followers today for help to save the German Shepherd's life.

In a nine-minute video uploaded to his channel, Olatunji told his 10million followers: 'I'm going to be appealing to save Tank's life and I want you to just help me.

'I want you to tell your friends, your family, everyone, anyone you know.

'I just want you to help me please because together we can save Tank, together we can save a life.'

He said he was 'very apologetic for the incident that happened regarding Tank', adding that 'at his point in time I just want Tank back'.

He added: 'He's the first dog I ever had and I love him so much.'

PC Jemma Russell, investigating, said: 'This was, understandably, a frightening experience for the victim and her family.

'All dogs, big or small, can be dangerous if they are not properly trained and under control.

'It is the owner's responsibility to ensure their dog remains under control at all times, including when at home.

'It's clear from the CCTV footage that the family didn't have control of Tank, who was behaving aggressively and roaming the street without a collar.

'It is an offence to own a dangerous dog, or to have a dog that becomes dangerously out of control.

'I hope this shows we take incidents of dangerous and uncontrolled dogs very seriously and will do all we can to protect the public,' added PC Russell.

Oladeji's brother, KSI, began recording videos on YouTube in 2008, and has since reached four billion views on his channel with a net worth of £4million.

In 2011, he used his channel to branch out into the music industry and has since released a collaborative rap album with fellow YouTuber Randolph.

He is the 99th most subscribed user on Youtube and in 2016 he was crowned Vlogger of the Year at the NME awards.

In September he was crowned second place in the list of the Britain's top 100 influencers compiled by The Sunday Times.

The Swedish internet sensation PewDiePie made his fortune from his commentary while playing video games.

The YouTuber uploads videos of him playing Minecraft where he can rake in £2,701 per minute of footage.