The terrifying trailer for Amy Adams starrer The Woman In The Window dropped on Thursday.

And the psychological frightmare promises to be deeply scary.

It starts off with Amy as a disturbed woman filming herself saying, 'I'm Anna Fox. There are some things that need to be said about me, I have an anxiety disorder,' she intones over footage of herself taking pills before reluctantly checking the front door via the intercom after the bell rings.

Scroll down for video

Checking things out: Amy Adams plays Anna Fox, a disturbed young woman who is spying on the man and wife in the apartment opposite hers

The distressed woman sees a young man, who says: 'I live across the street, my Mom asked me to give you this.'

She says, 'I'm not prepared for visitors' but it was evidently Halloween as the next time she checks there's a group of ghouls outside making fun of her.

Anna's voiceover continues: 'I'm an agoraphobic. I can't go outside.' Nevertheless, she opens with door with a shaking hand and is engulfed with a bright light as a woman sings 'I have lived in darkness...'

Cut to Anna at a psychiatrist's office, as the doctor says: 'You've let some of that outside in, your neighbor from across the street.'

New pal: Anna eventually lets Julianne Moore as Jane, who lives in the apartment opposite her, into her life

Hard to tell: Her psychiatrist seems worried about the effect that Jane will have on his patient

Terrible trauma: Anna sees Jane being stabbed to death by her husband Alistair, played by Gary Oldmwan

The neighbor is Julianne Moore as Jane and she's seen in Anna's kitchen saying: 'I'm pretty sure you're not supposed to be taking these with alcohol,' as Anna gulps down pills and red wine.

The psychiatrist asks, 'She's become a friend?' But there's no answer as the action returns to Anna admiring Jane's earrings that were given to her by an old boyfriend.

'Doesn't your husband mind?' Anna asks, as Jane laughs, saying, 'It's complicated.'

It's done: Jane falls backwards away from Alistair and across the apartment

Doing the right thing: Anna reels back from the window completely horrified and calls the police

It gets worse: To Anna's horror, the detective turns up with Jane's husband Alistair

She watches as Jane returns to her brownstone. A little later she hears a blood-curdling scream, and sees Jane falling backwards, evidently stabbed.

Terrified she calls the police and the detective turns up with Jane's husband Alistair, played by Gary Oldman. 'You have never met my wife,' he says as she replies, 'I know what I saw.'

But to Anna's horror, when he introduces his wife, it's another woman who looks very like Jane. 'Why are you protecting them?' the distraught Anna asks the cop, 'They're all hiding something.'

New horror: 'You have never met by wife,' he says as she replies, 'I know what I saw'

Story twist: But when his 'wife' turns up she's a different woman to the person Anna met

Warning: 'Don't go looking into other people's houses - you won't like what you see,' a voice intones

Later, asleep in bed, she wakes up certain that someone is in her apartment - and she's right.

'Don't go looking into other people's houses - you won't like what you see,' a voice intones as someone comes after her with a knife.

Directed by Joe Wright, the crime mystery based on the book by A.J. Finn and Dan Mallory is due out on May 15

Watching one another: Anna checks out the mystery blonde who is NOT Jane across the street