Lydia Bright has revealed she's had to move back in with her parents after deciding to renovate her Essex home.

The heavily pregnant former TOWIE star, 29, discussed her plans to create the 'perfect home' for herself and her daughter, which she has nicknamed Dinkie.

However Lydia has revealed building work won't be completed before her baby girl's due date, February 25, after she had to 'wait forever' for planning permission.

First-time mum: Lydia Bright has revealed she's had to move back in with her parents after deciding to renovate her Essex home (pictured on Thursday)

Speaking on this week's The Brights Podcast, Lydia, who is expecting her daughter with ex-boyfriend Lee Cronin, said: 'I can't believe I've only got 14 weeks until my baby is here I'm hoping my house is semi-done so we can move back home and everything will be perfect for her.

'The finishing touches and things can happen when we're there. I just want to be in my house with my baby.

'I'm hoping she's going to be a bit late. They say the first baby comes late don't they?

Renovation; The heavily pregnant former TOWIE star, 29, discussed her plans to create the 'perfect home' for herself and her daughter, nicknamed Dinkie (pictured last month)

Lydia continued: 'Really I'm due 25th Feb but if she could come mid-March, that gives me a bit more time.

'I just need planning permission. I'm lucky I have Debbie and Dave's to stay at. I just want a roof over my and my baby's head.'

However, Lydia admitted on Instagram on Thursday, work would not be completed in time before her little one's arrival.

The reality star shared a snap of her loft conversion and wrote: 'One month ago after waiting FOREVER for planning permission, project family home finally began.

'Still a long way to go and I don’t think it will be completely ready by the time you arrive Dinky. But I promise to make it the best home for us to build our life together.'

Update: On Wednesday, Lydia revealed she has put on two stone during her pregnancy

On Wednesday, Lydia revealed she has put on two stone during her pregnancy.

The reality TV personality posted a video as she weighed herself, telling fans she used to be 9st, but has gone up to 11st as her body changes with her pregnancy.

The excited mother-to-be also showed off her baby bump in fun festive pyjamas as she got on the scales.

Weighing herself on a video for her 1.1 million followers, she said: 'Just got on the scales. I was always nine stone... I am now 11 stone!' she then made a dramatic song noise.

Instagram: Lydia revealed she has always weighed nine stone but during her pregnancy she has gone up to 11 stone

The reality star split from the baby's father, Lee, - but has previously said he still goes to every scan with her.

The couple had been together for two years before calling time on the relationship.

During a previous Instagram Q&A she was asked if Lee is an 'active part' of her unborn daughter's life. She said: 'Our baby was very much planned and we are both very excited for her arrival.'

The Brights podcast is available weekly on Apple, Spotify and all podcast providers.