The Defense Department has completed security screenings of all Saudi Arabian students in the United States for military training and found no indications of any immediate threats, the Pentagon said Thursday, nearly two weeks after a Saudi student killed three people and injured eight others at a Florida Navy base.

Garry Reid, the director for defense intelligence, told reporters that as a result of an ongoing security review, the Pentagon will expand its role in vetting international students who come into the country for military training.

He added that the department will now conduct additional vetting of all other international students who are in the US for military programs.

On December 6, Second Lieutenant Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old Saudi Air Force officer, killed three US sailors and injured eight other people at Naval Air Station Pensacola.

Saudi Arabia Defense Attache Major General Fawaz Al Fawaz and his Embassy staff and other officials arrive to meet with the Saudi students who remain restricted to the Naval Air Station (NAS) Pensacola base by their Saudi commanding officer in Pensacola, Florida on December 9

On December 6, Second Lieutenant Mohammed Alshamrani, a 21-year-old Saudi Air Force officer, killed three US sailors and injured eight other people at Naval Air Station Pensacola

The three dead US sailors are seen above from left to right: Airman Mohammed Sameh Haitham; Ensign Joshua Kaleb Watson; and Airman Apprentice Cameron Scott Walters

Federal authorities say he legally bought the 9mm Glock pistol he used.

The incident raised questions about how well international military students are screened before they attend training at American bases.

As a result, the Pentagon last week ordered a broad review of the screening procedures.

In a December 10 memo, Deputy Defense Secretary David Norquist also ordered the suspension of all flight and other operational training for Saudi Arabian students in US military programs.

In addition, the Pentagon also said that no new international military students would come into the United States for training until new screening procedures are in place.

A senior US defense official said Thursday that although the latest screening indicated no threat from Saudi students in the US, that doesn't reflect any other information that federal investigators may be gathering about what role any other individuals may have played in the Pensacola shooting.

The Pentagon has concluded screening all foreigners doing military training in the United States and found no immediate threat, according to the Defense Department. The naval base in Pensacola is seen above after the shooting earlier this month

The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss an ongoing investigation, also said that military bases have instituted other enhanced security procedures, including more random searches and perimeter checks.

The Pentagon has said that about 850 Saudi students are currently in US military training programs.

Officials said it's not certain when flight and operational training would restart.

Overall there are about 5,000 international military students in US programs.

Currently they go through screening by the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security.

The US mainly runs background and biometric checks on the students to determine if they are security risks.

For the most part, military installation commanders have the authority to set their own security procedures, including base entry screenings and carry permits for guns.

There is a baseline level of security that must be met, but commanders can make any of their procedures more stringent if they believe it's necessary.