Jeff Bezos and his girlfriend, Lauren Sanchez, were spotted spending the holiday season with Dasha Zhukova in St Barth.

The billionaire and his former news anchor partner looked relaxed and comfortable as they walked in a crowded area on the island.

Bezos sported a blue shirt with black shorts as Sanchez donned a white t-shirt and multi-colored shorts.

Sanchez, 50, was also seen wearing a large ring on her right hand.

Jeff Bezos and his girlfriend, Lauren Sanchez (pictured), were spotted spending the holiday season with Dasha Zhukova in St-Barth

The billionaire (left) sported a blue shirt with black shorts as Sanchez (right) donned a white t-shirt and multi-colored shorts

One photo shows Sanchez rubbing the back of Bezos' head as they relax on the boat

At one point they were seen being helped onto the yacht during an outing on Sunday.

One photo shows Sanchez rubbing the back of Bezos' head as they relax on the boat.

Their relationship was revealed on January 10, a day after Bezos and his wife Mackenzie announced they were separating.

In October, it was reported that Sanchez and her husband Patrick Whitesell were in the process of finalizing their divorce.

They reached an agreement for the terms of their divorce and will share joint custody of their son and daughter while dividing the property according to the terms of their prenuptial agreement, legal documents revealed.

Their 14-year marriage came to an end when Whitesell found out Bezos and Sanchez were having an affair.

Their relationship was revealed on January 10, a day after Bezos and his wife Mackenzie announced they were separating

The 55-year-old businessman, who is worth $114billion according to Forbes, was named the richest man in the US earlier this year

The past few months have not only been filled with plenty of travel, yacht stays, and parties but also a fair few controversies - not least the mogul's very public divorce from his ex-wife, who walked away from their marriage with a hefty settlement that included $38billion worth of Amazon stock.

In September the pair enjoyed a boat trip through Venice and just a few weeks before that, they were hosted as guests of billionaire David Geffen aboard his $200million yacht.

They enjoyed a tour of some of Europe's most exotic locales alongside the music producer and a host of other high-profile guests, including the likes of model Karlie Kloss, Joshua Kushner, and music producer Scooter Braun.

During that trip, the loved-up pair traveled to Mallorca, Saint-Tropez, and Portofino, before traveling back to the US.