Sunrise presenter Edwina Bartholomew has shared the first pictures of her newborn daughter Molly, after giving birth to her first child on Wednesday evening.

The 36-year-old TV presenter uploaded two adorable snaps of the tiny baby, taken just moments after she was born, and revealed why she and her husband Neil Varcoe chose her very traditional name.

'Meet Molly Matilda Christie Varcoe. Late like her Mum and tall like her Dad. Molly ‘cause we like it. Matilda for Neil’s Great Grandmother. Christie was my Grandmother’s maiden name and my middle name too,' she explained in the caption.

Here she is! Sunrise presenter Edwina Bartholomew has shared the first pictures of her newborn daughter Molly, after giving birth to her first child on Wednesday evening

The new mother also thanked her friends, family and fans for all their well wishes.

'We are exhausted and elated. still in shock. Thank you for all the well wishes. We all feel very loved xxx,' she wrote.

Edwina was glowing in the photo, which was taken in her hospital bed.

Wearing a striped bed shirt, she was grinning from ear-to-ear as she gazed down adoringly at her bundle of joy.

Edwina and her husband Neil received an early Christmas present this week when Molly was welcomed into the world on Wednesday.

The new arrival comes after Edwina was last seen running errands in Sydney with Neil on Saturday, showing off her large baby bump in a leopard print shirt.

Snug as a bug: Little Molly was wrapped up tight in a baby blanket

Baby bump: The new arrival comes after Edwina was last seen running errands in Sydney with Neil on Saturday, showing off her large baby bump in a leopard print shirt

A Seven spokesperson confirmed to Yahoo Lifestyle that the journalist and her husband Neil named the baby girl, Molly.

Last week, Edwina shared a selfie of her bump, revealing she was overdue.

'9 months and 3 days [pregnant] and moving house,' she joked, while unpacking boxes with husband Neil rather than resting up.

The couple have been racing against time in recent months to finish renovating their $1.6 million heritage home in Sydney's inner-west before the arrival of their little one.

'9 months and 3 days [pregnant] and moving house': Last week, Edwina shared a selfie of her bump, revealing she was overdue

So much to do! The couple have been racing against time in recent months to finish renovating their $1.6 million heritage home in Sydney's inner-west before the arrival of their little one

'If the baby comes early, we will not be ready,' the pregnant star joked to The Daily Telegraph in October while discussing the 1870s inner-west terrace.

Edwina continued: 'We are having a baby in two months and still have no doors or windows. The house is actually a heritage item and bricks are protected.'

The Channel Seven journalist announced her pregnancy news earlier in the year.

'We're having a baby, due in December,' she told her colleagues on Channel Seven's breakfast show on June 5.

'If the baby comes early, we will not be ready,' the pregnant star joked to The Daily Telegraph in October while discussing the 1870s inner-west terrace (pictured)

Edwina added: 'We're super stoked and our family is really excited. Mum has been bursting at the seams to tell everyone - so mum, you can tell everyone!'

She explained that Sunrise co-host Samantha Armytage already knew about the pregnancy, and fellow reporter Natalie Barr had guessed it due to her odd cravings.

The mother-to-be also shared a sonogram photo with Sunrise viewers, adding that she is yet to find out if she's having a boy or a girl.

Edwina married Neil, a digital media executive, on April 21, 2018 at their restored farmhouse in Lithgow, New South Wales.

'We're super stoked and our family is really excited': The Channel Seven journalist announced her pregnancy news earlier in the year