She seems to be rekindling the fire but perhaps not with her much younger ex.

Kourtney Kardashian took to social media with a saucy new fireside snap on Thursday and added a cheeky caption.

Kourt stunned in the Instagram photo where she appeared to be nude underneath of a shearling coat.

Looking good: Kourtney Kardashian took to social media with a saucy new fireside snap on Thursday where she appeared to be nude under a shearling coat

She crouched on her knees in the image while perched in front of a fireplace with low burning fire inside.

The Keeping Up With the Kardashians star added a festive tongue-in-cheek caption: 'chestnuts roasting on an open fire'

In addition to having some fun with her photo caption, the eldest Kardashian-Jenner sibling let her hair down this week at the Happiest Place on Earth.

The reality star was spotted with her 26-year-old ex Younes Bendjima aboard the Incredicoaster at Disneyland California Adventure Park in Anaheim, California on Tuesday night.

The Keeping Up With the Kardashians star added a festive tongue-in-cheek caption: 'chestnuts roasting on an open fire'

The two have been spending plenty of time together as they were recently spotted out in Miami.

The Poosh founder is fond of the theme park and often visits with her three children Mason, Penelope, and Reign.

The whereabouts of her older two children are unknown but Kourtney was joined by youngest son Reign Disick, five, as she shared a sweet snap of them posting together in front of the 'It's A Small World' holiday ride on Tuesday.

Pals on the town: In addition to having some fun with her photo caption, the eldest Kardashian-Jenner sibling let her hair down this week at the Happiest Place on Earth with her 26-year-old ex Younes Bendjima

Of her relationship with the younger model, a source revealed to E! News that things are 'strictly platonic' between the two.

'They definitely flirt with each other and are always both giddy while around one another,' the source revealed. 'They are friendly and have fun when they are together and it's convenient.'

Earlier this month, the two were spotted out together at LIV nightclub in Miami Beach where Kourtney's sister Kendall was hanging out.