A San Francisco woman is offering a $7,000 reward and has hired a plane to fly over the city to search for her blue-eyed miniature Australian Shepherd stolen from outside a grocery store last weekend.

Emilie Talermo said her dog, Jackson, was stolen Saturday at about 8am outside the Good Life grocery store in San Francisco's Bernal Heights neighborhood.

'It was five minutes and when I came outside he was gone,' Talermo told ABC 7, adding that the five-year-old pet is 'truly my whole life. He's a true family member.'

Scroll down for video

Emilie Talermo is pictured here with her miniature Australian Sheepdog, Jackson, which was stolen from outside a San Francisco grocery store Saturday at about 8am

Talermo said she left Jackson (pictured) tied up outside the store for five minutes, during which time a stranger walked up to him, took a picture and then stole him

Talermo (pictured with Jackson) is now offering a $7,000 'no questions asked' reward for the safe return of her beloved, five-year-old pet

On the website she set up to spread the word about her missing dog, bringjacksonhome.com, Talermo shared surveillance video showing a man, believed to be the dog thief, in a hooded jacket, walking up to the bench where she had tied up Jackson while she was inside the store.

The dog 'was taken by someone who looks unassuming (not homeless). The man took a photo of him, pet him, sat next to him and then untied him from the bench and walked off with him,' Talermo wrote on GoFundMe.

Since Jackson was stolen, Talermo and her friends have distributed thousands of flyers with the photo of the 28-pound (13-kilogram) dog with a white, black, and gray fur and bright blue eyes.

'I am just one person and I really need help getting the word out there,' Talermo, a creative producer for Instagram, said Thursday.

'He's always with me. It's a very real love, she said, her voice breaking. 'I just need help finding him.'

In addition to setting up the dog search website and passing out flyers, Talermo hired an airplane to fly a banner that will have the search website address on it.

Talermo posted surveillance video showing a man in a hooded jacket walking up to her dog outside the grocery store the morning the dog was stolen

Talermo said that the man (pictured) took of photo of her dog, pet him, sat next to him and then untied him from the bench, before walking off with him

Talermo and her friends have spent the past few days handing out thousands of these flyers in hopes of spreading the word about her missing dog

Talermo also spent $1,200 to hire a plane to fly a banner with her dog search website address on it over San Francisco and neighboring Oakland

The plane - which cost $1,200 - will circle over San Francisco and neighboring Oakland for two hours Friday. It had originally been set to fly Thursday, but had to be rescheduled because of weather.

'It wasn't cheap, but I'll do anything for my dog,' Talermo told ABC 7.

That also includes setting up a Tinder account for the dog, hoping to broaden the search area for Jackson that way. The dog is listed as 49 years old on the dating app because 'I know that a five-year-old couldn't be on Tinder.'

Talermo is currently offering a $7,000 cash reward - 'no questions asked' and 'no police involvement' - to anyone who returns the dog safely to her.

'This situation has caused so much pain and heartbreak and rallied a community to help get him home. I just want my precious little boy to come back in my arms where he belongs,' Talermo wrote on GoFundMe.

'If you recently purchased a mini aussie, please take him to your local vet for a free scan of the microchip (it is alerted) that could reunite us,' she added. 'Or perhaps reunite another situation - you never know. Let's all be good people, people.'

Talermo is urging anyone who bought a miniature Australian Shepherd recently to take it to a vet and have it scanned for a microchip, in case the dog is Jackson

Talermo said that she got Jackson while in New York and has moved with the dog to Los Angeles and San Francisco. She considers the dog a family member

In addition to finding Jackson, Talermo (pictured) is hoping her search helps raise awareness about the dangers of leaving dogs unattended outside stores

Talermo has been using the fundraising website to raise money for the reward, which is capped at $7,000, and said that any additional money on top of that would be used to help land media attention during the search for the dog.

If worse comes to worse and Jackson is not found, Talermo said on her website that she would donate the money raised to Rocket Dog Rescue,

So far, $8,415 has been raised over the three days that the fundraiser has been active.

In addition to searching for her dog, Talermo is hoping that her story will help raise awareness about the dangers of leaving dogs unattended outside.

'We’re trying to raise as much money as possible to get a safe return for Jackson however we also want to bring awareness to our fellow community members to not leave their dogs outside of establishments. Even on safe and busy streets in good neighborhoods,' Talermo wrote on her website.

'Our hope is to bring Jackson back, but it is also a callout to community to be cautious with your dog. Christmas is just around the corner and the thought of a little kid getting gifted this handsome dog for Christmas makes my heart hurt—for me, my dog, and the kid (if we were to find him and have to take him back).'

Talermo said she got Jackson in New York. They moved to Los Angeles and then to San Francisco.

'Those people I've met throughout the years know my love for this dog. I'm just blown away by everyone's support,' she said.

Anyone with information about Jackson's whereabouts is asked to call authorities or animal control. Tipsters can also reach out to Talermo directly via email at hello@bringjacksonhome.com or call (307) 413-7566.