Builders have stumbled upon a treasure trove of 200-year-old coins worth nearly half a million pounds.

The 10,000 coins were discovered during renovation work in the historic city of Krakow in Poland.

Made of copper and minted in the time of the 18th century Polish king Stanislaw Poniatowski II, the rare copper coins had been stashed in the basement.

Builders stumbled upon a treasure trove of 200-year-old coins (some of the haul discovered pictured) worth £400,000 during renovation work in Krakow, Poland

The coins were also hidden inside linen bags, which have since rotted away, when they were placed in the tenement building.

The building on Stradomska Street, which 200 years ago belonged to a religious order, is undergoing renovation to convert it into an apartment and hotel building.

It has sometimes been called the 'House of the Abbott', in reference to its religious past, reports the First News.

Copper coins from that period can be worth up to £40 each and experts estimate that the total value could therefore be as much as £400,000.

The coins were hidden inside linen bags, which have since rotted away, and were made in the time of 18th century king Stanislaw Poniatowski II

The 10,000 coins were discovered during renovation work in the historic city of Krakow in Poland

The coins have now been handed over to the Krakow Archaeological Museum, which will try to solve the mystery of how they got there and also preserve them.

Earlier this year nearly 1,000 silver coins were found under the floor of the Church of St. Andrew the Apostle in Poland's Warmia province.

While working on the chancel of the church which was built in the late fourteenth century, a team stumbled upon them, reports Archaeology.org.

Most of the coins were minted for the Polish crown and had King Sigismund III Vasa, who reigned from 1587 to 1632, on them.

Arkadiusz Koperkiewicz, who led the team, suggested monks at the church might have hid the coins during a time of prosperity, when bishops awarded subsidies.