The New South Wales Government is looking at a plan to flood Hunter Valley coal mines in the hopes of creating water storage lakes.

The Hunter Region of country New South Wales is facing its worst drought in decades.

Hunter Water says the region relies on dams for water storage, with dam levels at their lowest point in more 20 years.

A Hunter Valley coal pit. The old pits could provide valuable water storage if they can be filled

The proposal says three old coal mining pits in the Hunter Valley can be turned into lakes eventually with more water storage than 'multiple Sydney harbours'.

The proposal wants to emulate Europe's largest artificial lake system in eastern Germany where old coal mine pits have been turned into lakes.

The Lusatian Lake District is becoming Europe's largest artificial lake district and provides drinking water to Berlin and recreational activities.

The Hunter Valley could add more water storage pits as more deep, open-cut disused coal mining pits become available.

Hunter Valley Lakes Corporation, a five-month old company registered in the inner-Sydney suburb of Woolloomooloo, is behind the proposal.

Director Greg Story said the water system would eventually have interconnected lakes stretching 60 kilometres from Muswellbrook to Broke, southwest of Singleton, providing valuable water storage for the state in times of drought.

The Lusatian Lake District was created by filling brown coal pits with water

The Hunter Valley (pictured) has dams at their lowest level in more than two decades and needs water security for the future. It has variable rainfall and a high evaporation rate

He said his company had advice from the NSW Environment Department that significant rainfall occurs on average every three years, and that this could fill the mine pits.

WATER PLAN FACTS * Plan is to fill old Hunter Valley coal mine pits with water * Three pits are ready now and more will come in the future * Idea is to link new lakes stretching 60km from Muswellbrook, NSW, south past Singleton * Just one pit can hold 193 gigalitres of fresh water * Sydney Harbour has 500 gigalitres * Hunter Region needs water security as it has variable rainfall and a high evaporation rate * Hunter Region is on water restrictions and dams are at two-decade lows * Farmers say plan could work by filling the pits with pumps when the rivers are in flood * Plan says to fill with rainwater * The Hunter Water network is the second largest in NSW and supplies water to more than 500,000 people * Regional Development Plan 2036 calls for the Hunter Water network to link to the Central Coast for resilience

The company said just one of the available mine pits could hold 193 gigalitres of water - almost half the capacity of Sydney Harbour which has 500 gigalitres.

If the plan works, it would provide water for irrigation for farmers and water security for the towns.

'It is a project of state if not national significance and has the support of all three levels of government on a cross-party basis,' Mr Story told the Sydney Morning Herald.

Hunter Valley Water Users Association secretary Scott Wheatley, a dairy farmer from Aberdeen, told Daily Mail Australia he thought the plan is feasible but may need pumps to fill the voids.

There is no water to spare now but the next time the Hunter River is in flood, he said water could be taken off to pump into the disused mine pits.

'That could work, when it's in high flow, just take the top off the flood level.

'They'd need pretty big pumps,' he said.

'The extra storage would be good.'

A comparison between Lusatia in eastern Germany and the NSW Hunter Region prepared for the 2018 Mine Rehab Conference in Newcastle found Lusatia has annual rainfall of around 500mm.

The Hunter Valley can get up to 600mm but is highly variable, the comparison research said.

Hunter Valley evaporation rates are triple those of Lusatia at up to 1600mm per year versus 500mm per year, the research said.

If the plan works it could see the Hunter Region supplied with more water than 'multiple Sydney Harbours'. Sydney Harbour (pictured) contains 500 gigalitres of sea water

That means that a deep storage pit such as from a disused mine could potentially hold on to water for longer than a shallower dam.

The NSW Minerals Council said flooding disused mines was an option for the Hunter Valley to create new lakes for water supply and recreational use.

'As mining is a temporary use of the land, the industry is always looking for ways to utilise that land post-mining in a sustainable and environmentally friendly way, and to continue to deliver jobs and economic opportunities for local communities,' chief executive Stephen Galilee told the Sydney Morning Herald.

The 2036 Hunter Region Development Plan says water catchments in the region include the Hunter and Manning river systems and the Karuah and Lake Macquarie water catchments.

Improvements to the water networks operated by several agencies in the region would be needed to ensure the ongoing supply of water, the report said.

The report advised linking the Hunter Water network to the Central Coast water supply to increase the resilience of the two regions to drought.

The Hunter Water network is the second largest in NSW and supplies water to more than 500,000 people, the report said.