As scientist warn our planet is on track for a climate change disaster, many individuals are working tirelessly to do their part – and some believe they are doing more than others.

A new study has found that most people tend to overestimate their personal environmental engagement and act more than the average person –including their friends.

This self-serving bias can hinder future climate change mitigation, as many believe they have already done their share.

The study was conducted by a team from the University of Gothenburg, which collected surveys from 4,042 people in the US, Sweden, England and India.

The self-serving bias was found in all four of the countries and in nine of 10 pro-environmental behaviors.

Scroll down for video

A new study has found that most people tend to overestimate their personal environmental engagement and act more than the average person –including their friends

The behaviors included recycling, conserving energy, taking sustainable transportation, reducing or avoiding plastics, participating in eco-consumption, conserving water, avoiding littering, reusing and upcycling.

Participants were asked to rate themselves on how much they think they contribute to each environmental behavior.

Following the questionnaire, the team found that the majority of the participants rated themselves as more environmentally friendly than others – both in comparison to unknown people, and to their friends.

'Data showed that inducing people to perceive themselves as better than average (in terms of pro-environmental engagement) had negligible effects on pro-environmental obligations and weak effects on intentions for future pro-environmental engagement,' reads the study published in the Basic and Applied Social Psychology.

'Although a weak effect could have important practical implications, as the BTAE in pro-environmental behaviors might be a barrier for future behavior, these results should be interpreted with caution and validated by future research.'

The researchers also noted that these findings are in line with previous studies where people tend to consider themselves to be more honest, more creative, and better drivers than others.'

This self-serving bias can hinder future climate change mitigation, as many believe they have already done their share

Environmental psychology researcher Magnus Bergquist said: 'This study shows that over-optimism, or the 'better-than-average' effect, also applies to environmentally friendly behaviors.'

After analyzing data from different types of environmentally friendly activities, results revealed that the participants were more likely to overestimate their engagement in activities they perform often.

Many seemed to draw the faulty conclusion that the activities they perform often, they also perform more often than others.

A consequence of thinking that you are more environmentally friendly than others, is that it can reduce the motivation to act environmentally friendly in the future.

The study also showed that when we think we are more environmentally friendly than others, we actually tend to take less action.

According to Bergquist, one way of reducing the risk of over-optimism standing in our way for a real environmental commitment, may be trying to have a more realistic view of our own environmental efforts.

'If you think about it logically, the majority cannot be more environmentally friendly than others,' said Bergquist.

'One way to change this faulty opinion, is to inform people that others actually behave environmentally friendly, and thereby creating an environmentally friendly norm. Social norms affect us also in this area, we know this from previous studies.'