Ysgol Abersoch school in Gwynedd has seven full-time pupils aged three to eight

One of Britain's smallest schools has put on a festive pantomime despite only having seven full-time pupils.

Ysgol Abersoch school in Gwynedd organised a performance of Cardiau Nadolig - Christmas Cards - for the season, with each student taking on 'a couple of roles'.

Wales' smallest school, which has been threatened with closure due to its small pupil numbers, currently has seven students aged three to eight.

Headteacher Linda Jones is the only full-time member of staff at the seaside village school, and she was also in charge of getting the show ready for the stage.

Ysgol Abersoch school in Gwynedd organised a performance of Cardiau Nadolig - Christmas Cards - for the festive season with each student taking on 'a couple of roles'

'It has been one heck of a challenge, but the children were so excited', she said.

'After 30 years of teaching I've got a collection of Christmas pantos, but most of them are for a lot more children than seven.

'It's a lot of hard work because they all have to play a couple of roles. So we've had to do a shortened version, with not so many costume changes.

'We've also got the children to sing a lot of songs so they don't have so many different roles to learn. But they've still got 13 to sing, so they've got a lot to learn.

'But they have done so well that people are amazed there are only seven of them, they sound so good.'

Wales' smallest school currently has just seven full-time students aged three to eight

Gwynedd Council is said to be considering closing the school (pictured) as it is 27 pupils below its capacity

Cardiau Nadolig, which was performed on Wednesday, is the tale of a postman delivering cards with the message of remembering the reason behind Christmas.

Eldest pupil Scott, eight, is the lead and is one of only two boys in Ysgol Aberosch school. The youngest is three-year-old Melissa.

There has been a school in Abersoch, which has a population of 800, since 1924.

But Gwynedd Council is said to be considering closing the school as it is 27 pupils below its capacity.

However, Mrs Jones - a former pupil herself - said the school plays a vital role in the rural community.

'It's not just a school, it's right at the heart of the community', she said. 'For those of us staff and parents who are ex-pupils, it's very emotional.

'Fingers crossed this is not the last Christmas show. If it is, we'll make sure we go out with a bang.'