Joe Gibbs Racing named James Small as crew chief for driver Martin Truex Jr. on Thursday.

Small, an Australia native, previously worked as the lead engineer for Truex's No. 19 Toyota Camry team.

The 36-year-old replaces Cole Pearn, who announced his departure last week to spend more time with his family.

"This is an incredible opportunity," Small said in a media release from the Gibbs organization. "Having the confidence of Coach (team owner Gibbs), Martin and everyone at JGR means a lot to me.

"I moved to the United States six years ago to work in NASCAR and I wanted to work my way up to become a crew chief. I'm ready for this and I am excited about working with Martin and the foundation we have in place on the 19 team with the group of guys we have."

Truex said in a release that he is happy to have Small as Pearn's repleacement.

"I know James well and feel very comfortable with him. I feel like we approach racing very similar," he said. "He and Cole have a lot of similarities. It's a natural fit and I'm really excited about it. I think he'll do a great job."

Pearn served as crew chief for Truex for the past five seasons, first with the No. 78 Furniture Row Racing Toyota and then with the No. 19 Toyota when the duo moved to Joe Gibbs Racing after Furniture Row closed shop following the 2018 season.

Their crowning moment came at the season-ending race in Homestead, Fla., in 2017, when they won the race and took home the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series championship.

Pearn, 37, expanded on his reasoning in an interview on SiriusXM NASCAR Radio last week.

"Everybody in the sport understands the grind of what the schedule is," Pearn said. "To do it at the top level, you got to be all the way in. I was somehow making it work with my family until my kids got in school and once they're in school and you have a day off on a Thursday, it doesn't really matter. You pretty much go all week and you barely see 'em.

"I didn't want to look back at my life and miss those moments. For me to get the opportunity to work in racing has been just a dream come true and then to have the success we've had just blows my mind. When you've achieved more than you've ever dreamt, you look at the other things in your life that you've been missing. I just felt like it was time."

--Field Level Media