Brian Austin Green shared a rare photo of his oldest son, 17 year old Kassius Lijah Marcil-Green, on Saturday night.

The 46 year old actor shared the photo on Instagram, with his son posing next to a red Stormtrooper costume from Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker.

He also penned a brief tribute to Rise of Skywalker director J.J. Abrams, praising his final movie of the Skywalker Saga.

Rare photo: Brian Austin Green shared a rare photo of his oldest son, 17 year old Kassius Lijah Marcil-Green, on Saturday night

'JJ, thank you for giving my son and I not only a really great experience, but delivering a finale to something that has been a huge part of our lives in what I felt was a really respectful way :)),' Green stated on Instagram.

Kassius is his first child, with his Beverly Hills 90210 co-star Vanessa Marcil, who was born in 2002, a year after they got engaged.

While they were planning on marrying in 2003, Green and Marcil called off the engagement and split up.

Brian's thanks: 'JJ, thank you for giving my son and I not only a really great experience, but delivering a finale to something that has been a huge part of our lives in what I felt was a really respectful way :)),' Green stated on Instagram

Vanessa: Kassius is his first child, with his Beverly Hills 90210 co-star Vanessa Marcil, who was born in 2002, a year after they got engaged

The rare outing between father and son comes just over a year after his mother Marcil spoke out on Instagram claiming that Green had 'cut' Kassius out of his life after bitter custody battle.

Marcil claimed Green hadn't seen his son in five years, after he and his wife Megan Fox tried to get full custody of Kassius in 2006.

'Then, 5 years ago on their own they decided to completely cut Kass out of their lives and his younger brothers’ lives,' Marcil said.

Cut out: The rare outing between father and son comes just over a year after his mother Marcil spoke out on Instagram claiming that Green had 'cut' Kassius out of his life after bitter custody battle

'Kass has never met his youngest brother and is not allowed to know where his bio father, stepmother and three younger brothers live,' she added.

'Custody cases hurt the children only and the truth shall set us all free. Put the kids first you guys. There shouldn’t be a ‘more important parent’ kids love both parents equally no matter what either parent’s struggles may be,' Marcil added.

'Kass has been truly heartbroken since being cut out of his other families lives with NO explanation. Let’s do better for our kids. Let’s share our stories,' she concluded.

Never met: 'Kass has never met his youngest brother and is not allowed to know where his bio father, stepmother and three younger brothers live,' she added

Green apparently tried to mend fences with his son, since he was spotted on the BH90210 set back in July.

It isn't clear if Kassius has since met his half-brothers, Noah, 6, Bodhi, 5, and Journey, 2, who Green had with wife Megan Fox, who he's been married to since 2010.

Green is coming off Fox's BH90210, a meta reboot of Green's hit 1990s series Beverly Hills 90210.