A 22-year-old man is lucky to be alive after he drove off the top of a second-story parking garage.

The motorist, who has not been named, plowed his van through the chain-link fence atop the parking garage in downtown Sat Lake City which plummeted 25ft and landed nosedown, pinned between two walls of a narrow alley.

Fire crews say the driver was conscious but trapped in the vehicle when they arrived shortly after 1pm on Wednesday. He was airlifted to hospital with minor injuries.

Scroll down for video

A 22-year-old man is lucky to be alive after he drove off the top of a second-story parking garage. The Salt Lake City Fire Department extricate the driver from the van

The Salt Lake City Fire Department rescued the 22-year-old victim whose vehicle fell 25 feet off a parking garage

The victim being transported to the hospital, although fire officials say he suffered only minor injuries from his van tumbling 25 feet

It is not yet clear what caused him to drive the Ford Econoline 150 off the roof.

Salt Lake City Police told DailyMail.com it doesn't appear there was any criminal intent and that the incident was likely accidental.

As part of the investigation, police questioned the driver and he underwent a physical and mental evaluation.

Rescue crews were stunned the driver was able to walk away without major injury.

Passersby look at a Ford Econoline 150 that drove off the parking garage and landed upright in an alleyway

Another angle of a van that fell off second floor of a parking garage and got wedged in a tight space between two buildings

A van crashed through a chain link fence and fell from the second floor of a Salt Lake City parking garage

'When you fall from that distance inside a vehicle, it’s very unusual to not sustain any major damage or any injuries,' Salt Lake Fire Captain Adam Archuleta told Fox 13.

In order to get the Ford Econoline 150 out, a large tow truck was required to extricate it.

It was a passerby who witnessed the chaos and called 911.