Emilia Clarke worried she'd lose her Game Of Thrones role after she suffered two brain aneurysms.

The 33-year-old actress - who portrayed Daenerys Targaryen in the hit HBO series for the entirety of its run - experienced two health scares in 2011 and again 2013, but she only went public with her ordeal earlier this year, and was devastated that she had to go through the traumatic experience while living in the public eye.

Appearing on Jessie Ware's Table Manners podcast, Emilia admitted: 'With the first one, I couldn't let them know what had happened until they knew that I wasn't going to die.

Emilia Clarke worried she'd lose her Game Of Thrones role after she suffered two brain aneurysms

'So it took us three weeks to be like, "sorry for not answering the old emails. I've just been a bit, you know... I'm fine! By the way, everything's great. I'm totally fine. I'm going to be back to work, nothing wrong's with me. I'm all good."'

She added: 'I just was, and consistently, so scared of being fired for whatever reason.

'So I was just like... that was just me, more than [them]. I had no idea how taken care of I was.'

Emilia recently admitted she 'wanted to disappear' when she suffered her second brain aneurysm.

Ordeal: The 33-year-old actress experienced two health scares in 2011 and again 2013, but she only went public with her ordeal earlier this year

She said: 'I do feel like the brain haemorrhages are the literal, physical embodiment of what it is to be attacked on a social media, because I didn't want to look anyone in the eye, and I didn't want anyone to recognise me.

'I wanted to disappear completely, to wipe myself off the face of the earth, because I couldn't handle the level of interaction. Because I felt totally laid bare, totally vulnerable, totally in pain.'

And, although she was fighting for her life, the Last Christmas acterss was more concerned about who would see her in hospital than her actual health.

She explained: '[With] the second one, I lost a lot of hope; I lost a lot of optimism. That's insane bad luck.

On the line? She portrayed Daenerys Targaryen in the hit HBO series for the entirety of its run

'But there I was in a f**king American hospital with drains coming out of my head, fully swollen, full of all the drugs they give you, and all I could think was, "please don't recognise me, please don't recognise me, please don't recognise me."'

Emilia spoke candidly about her health scares in March earlier this year, when she revealed she underwent two life-saving surgeries in the course of eight years to correct two different aneurysm growths.

The film star also credited her mum for being the 'greatest support' as she tried to recover from the ordeal while battling with aphasia [loss of speech].

She said: 'There was also my mum, when she went into mum superpower in the hospital: I had aphasia [loss of speech], and she looked at me and went, 'Yeah, I know exactly what you mean.'

Shocking: Emilia spoke about her health scares in March, when she revealed she underwent two life-saving surgeries in the course of eight years

'She made me believe she understood exactly what I was saying. It was genuinely her greatest moment.'

Following her health battle, Emilia launched the charity SameYou, which helps raise money for people recovering from brain injuries and strokes.

She also became an ambassador for the Royal College of Nursing in 2018, after being met with 'kind' nurses during her time in hospital.