One person is presumed dead and as many as two others are still believed to be trapped in the rubble of Philadelphia row houses that collapsed after an explosion that ignited an inferno this afternoon.

More than 100 firefighters battled a three-alarm fire in the 1400 block of South 8th Street in south Philadelphia, which was brought under control shortly before 3pm.

Philadelphia Fire Commissioner Adam Thiel said during a late-afternoon press conference that firefighters saw a victim who was 'most likely deceased,' but the person was trapped under so much debris they could not safely remove the body.

'Our first arriving companies went into ... a maelstrom of fire, hanging wires, gas leaking, buildings collapsing around them to try to get into this building and make a rescue,' he said of his first responders' efforts.

Thiel's agency received reports of one or two additional people who still might be trapped in the house that fully collapsed and in an adjacent residence that partially caved in.

Thiel stressed that although the fire is under control, the situation at the scene remains very dangerous and volatile, with a possible sinkhole forming under the street and additional buildings facing the risk of collapse.

An explosion rocked South Philadelphia late Thursday morning, causing a row house to collapse and sparking a huge fire

A screenshot from a CBS Philly chopper video shows orange flames shooting from the roof of a building Thursday morning

A woman cries as firefighters battle a fire in the 1400 block of South 8th St. in Philadelphia

A woman is evacuated from a nearby home as firefighters battle a three-alarm fire after a house explosion in Philadelphia on Thursday

“It looks like a bomb exploded,” said one witness. This was the scene shortly after an explosion and house collapse in Pennsport section of South Philadelphia. @6abc

Video shot by Mike Seccio pic.twitter.com/7LQ9TFEi4Q — Jeff Chirico (@JeffChirico) December 19, 2019

More than 100 firefighters are searching for two people who were reported to be trapped in the rubble of a home that collapsed on South 8th Street

Plumes of thick smoke are seen billowing from the scene of the blaze in Philadelphia

Earlier in the day, news video showed orange flames shooting out the top of the collapsed residence and heavy smoke billowing from the scene.

Officials said they received multiple calls about a house explosion and the possible smell of gas shortly after 11.30am.

The status of the two trapped people was not immediately known.

Mike Seccia, the owner of the nearby Cosmi's Deli, told 6abc the blast that preceded the fire was 'the loudest bang he's ever heard.'

Commissioner Thiel said at an earlier press briefing that firefighters 'went into a fully collapsed building that was on fire to try to rescue somebody.'

The commissioner added that three or four buildings have been impacted by the fire.

Shortly after 2.45pm, the Philadelphia Fire Department sent out a tweet saying the inferno was 'under control.'

A firefighter is seen standing on a ladder against the backdrop of thick smoke

Firefighters came out in full force to get the three-alarm inferno under control

Firefighters faced freezing temperatures while working to put out the fire in Philadelphia

A rooftop view shows the smoke wafting from the scene of the explosion

The Philadelphia Fire Department managed to bring the blaze under control at 2.43pm

Fire Commissioner Adam Thiel speaks to reporters about the explosion and fire

Lisa Marie Cerra told The Philadelphia Inquirer that she and other residents tried to rescue someone under debris when firefighters arrived.

'We saw her feet, and then they couldn’t get to her,' she said.

Vinny Termini, the co-owner of a bakery located on South 8th Street, told the newspaper all the windows in nearby homes were blown out.

'Some neighbors were in the rubble, looking for people,' he recalled. 'It was upsetting, very upsetting.'

Philadelphia Gas Works shut off gas to the area, and 60 nearby residents were evacuated as a precaution.

SEPTA city buses have been rerouted to the area to temporary provide shelter for evacuees against the freezing temperatures.

The American Red Cross is also assisting survivors at the scene.