Mark Wahlberg might be just as famous for his fitness enthusiasm as he is for his acting chops.

And on Thursday, the 48-year-old star showed why as he flaunted his insanely jacked body in a new Instagram post.

'Six months of performance inspired nutrition Aquahydrate And F45 training!! Clean eating. Inspired to be better team training / life changing,' he captioned the picture.

Flex: 'Six months of performance inspired nutrition Aquahydrate And F45 training!! Clean eating. Inspired to be better team training / life changing' Mark Wahlberg captioned a new Instagram pic on Thursday

Wahlberg shared his intense workout routine with fans last year when asked how he stays in such amazing shape.

The Fighter actor said his days starts at 2:30 am.

After a pre-workout breakfast at 3:15 am, which typically consists of eggs, avocado, steel oats and fruit, he hits the gym.

He works out from 3:40 am until 5:15 am.

Abs: An Instagram photo from August shows why the actor's social media account is a treasure trove of fitness #goals

Workout partners: 'Me and Bokeem Woodbine at it again! Our first hit was The Big Hit and now we’re coming back with a bigger hit!' he said

The Oscar nominee rounds out his morning with a post-workout snack and a dip in the cryo chamber, all before 10 am.

Since the start of his career, bulking up has been Wahlberg's modus operandi as he typically stars in physically demanding roles that require extreme endurance.

His notorious workout plan was revealed as he was training for 2018's Mile 22, an action thriller in which he stars as a CIA operative leading a paramilitary team on a dangerous mission.

One of his biggest transformations came in 2013's Pain and Gain, when he went from 165 to 221 pounds to play a Miami bodybuilder.

Do you even lift? The biggest transformation came in 2013's Pain and Gain, when he went from 165 to 221 pounds to play a Miami bodybuilder

Wahlberg is currently filming the action thriller Infinite, about a man suffering from schizophrenia who is troubled by memories from past lives.

The Boston native, who replaced Chris Evans as the lead role back in June, will star alongside Chiwetel Eijofor.

Infinite is slated for release in August 2020.