Alexandra Burke's boyfriend Angus MacDonald has been given the all clear following his bowel cancer diagnosis.

The Hull City defender, 27, was told he was suffering with the condition in September earlier this year and has since undergone two operations to aid his recovery.

Angus joined the club in January 2018, however he was forced to miss his first season after a blood clot was found in his calf and he battled deep vein thrombosis.

Great news! Alexandra Burke's boyfriend Angus MacDonald has been given the all clear following his bowel cancer diagnosis

Hoping to be fit for this season the footballer returned to training in August however he was soon diagnosed with bowel cancer just a month later.

Angus has since had his whole large bowel removed in a bid to save his life.

During his recovery Angus spent time away with his family and Alexandra, who has been a pillar of support to her boyfriend throughout his illness.

Confirming the news he was cancer-free, Hull City released a statement which read: 'Hull City are delighted to announce the wonderful news that Angus MacDonald has been given the all clear from bowel cancer.

Diagnosis: The Hull City defender, 27, was told he was suffering with the condition in September earlier this year and has since undergone two operations to aid his recovery

'The 27-year-old was diagnosed with the early stages of bowel cancer in August but has now completed his treatment, which proved successful.

'Everyone at the club would like to express their happiness at this fantastic news.

'Angus has shown tremendous courage and strength of character during the most challenging of periods.

'We would like to wish him and his family and friends a wonderful Christmas and we all look forward to seeing Angus back in and around the club.'

Shock: Angus joined the club in January 2018, however he was forced to miss his first season after a blood clot was found in his calf and he battled deep vein thrombosis

Alexandra and Angus went public with their romance back in July, after were seen together at Wimbledon.

The Broken Heels hitmaker first sparked speculation she had broken up with her former fiancé Josh Ginnelly in mid-June when she wiped him from her Instagram account.

Alexandra was then spotted putting on a loved-up display with Angus as they watched all the tennis action together.

Sources further divulged to MailOnline that Angus has been on tour with Alexandra and he has been spotted keeping her dogs company while she's on stage.

Rumour mill: Alexandra and Angus went public with their romance back in July, after were seen together at Wimbledon