She's gearing up for awards season after a steady run at the box office with her hit flick, Hustlers.

And Jennifer Lopez stayed focused on her fitness as she battled the rain before running into the gym in Miami, Florida.

The 50-year-old entertainer rocked an electric tie-dye sweatshirt with leggings while pounding the pavement to her daily workout.

Wet weather: Jennifer Lopez stayed focused on her fitness as she battled the rain before running into the gym in Miami, Florida

Jennifer's muscular upper body was hidden underneath her loose sweatshirt which featured a wild rainbow design.

She flaunted her hourglass curves with a pair of tight white leggings and added a pair of neon orange Nike trainers.

Lopez tied back her chestnut brown hair into a loose ponytail and allowed a few wispy tendrils to frame her face.

Sweat session: The 50-year-old entertainer rocked an electric tie-dye sweatshirt with leggings while pounding the pavement to her daily workout

Cozy: Jennifer's muscular upper body was hidden underneath her loose sweatshirt which featured a wild rainbow design

She carried her iPhone in one hand and hid from the rain with the help of a trust umbrella handler.

Jennifer's impressive year is coming to a close and she'll need all the rest she can get before heading to awards season in 2020.

The Jenny From The Block songstress was nominated for a Golden Glove Award for Best Supporting Actress and also a Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role for Hustlers.

Toned: She flaunted her hourglass curves with a pair of tight white leggings and added a pair of neon orange Nike trainers

Casual: Lopez tied back her chestnut brown hair into a loose ponytail and allowed a few wispy tendrils to frame her face

Rumors have also swirled that she'll receive a coveted Academy Award nomination for her role as a stripper named Ramona Vega in the crime drama which was released in September.

Lopez worked alongside Constance Wu, Cardi B and Lizzo as they portrayed a tag team of dancers who conned Wall Street executives.

In addition to her blockbuster success, Lopez became an engaged woman once again when boyfriend Alex Rodriguez proposed in March.