Sylvester Stallone packed a real punch yesterday morning when he surprised a group of unsuspecting Eastside High School students in Philadelphia.

The 73-year-old took a visit to the city's famous Rocky statue depicting the film's beloved protagonist.

The students of Eastside High School were visiting the iconic landmark during a field trip when they happened to bump into Stallone who was in the midst of filming something that the star tweeted would be 'VERY special.'

Seeing double: Sylvester Stallone revisited the Rocky statue in Philadelphia on Wednesday morning while filming a secret project

On a field trip visiting the Philadelphia Museum of Art, Eastside High School students decided to take a look - and some pictures- at the statue that immortalized the beloved character of the Oscar award-winning film Rocky.

The statue, located near the bottom of the steps to the museum, is a tourist must-see and the ultimate Philadelphia selfie stop for fans of Stallone and his fighter film franchise.

But, it's not everyday that civilians visiting the landmark get a chance to take a picture with the statue AND the real life Sylvester Stallone.

Stallone braved the thirty-three degree temperature in Philly for a day of shooting for a top secret project.

Icon: The statue, located near the bottom of the steps to the museum, is a tourist must-see and the ultimate Philadelphia selfie stop for fans of Stallone and his fighter film franchise

On location: Stallone braved the thirty-three degree temperature in Philly for a day of shooting for a top secret project

A film crew, capturing Stallone for the project, had set up their film equipment upon the famous Rocky steps located outside the art museum the students were visiting that day.

When the students initially arrived to the museum, teachers were unable to capture the students recreating the trek up the famous steps due to the film crew's occupancy.

Star power: Stallone sent the high school students and accompanying staff into a fan frenzy that he humbly encouraged

Then, without warning, a guidance counselor accompanying the field trip group spotted Stallone exiting a black SUV at the base of the steps.

It took a few moments for teachers and students to grasp the fact that it was not a look-alike, but the Rocky star, himself!

Sylvester ran up to the group of stunned high school students and immediately encouraged the fanfare.

The action star took selfies, offered hugs, and even filmed videos of his interactions with the excited students for his personal Twitter page.

Keep Punching: The action star took selfies, offered hugs, and even filmed videos of his interactions with the excited students for his personal Twitter page

Something is brewing: 'We are doing something that is going to be VERY special' toted the 73-year-old

Stallone tweeted: 'We are doing something that is going to be VERY special and you'll be seeing it soon, so hang in there and go for it!!! #KeepPunching'

Stallone, humbled by the entire experience, took to Twitter once more to label his fans 'some of the best fans in the world' and that he is a 'lucky man.'

In a statement to CNN, Darin Johnson, an instructional aid for Eastside that was accompanying the students of their field trip, stated the age old saying that 'you should never meet your celebrity heroes because you'll be disappointed'

But, luckily for Johnson, this statement turned out to be false.

'But in this case, I'm glad to have met Mr. Stallone' concluded Johnson.