The woman who was caught on video climbing into a lion's enclosure at the Bronx Zoo in September is now a wanted fugitive, according to NBC.

Myah Autry, 32, was charged with two counts of criminal trespassing for entering the lion's den, but she failed to show for a scheduled court appearance last Thursday.

A bench warrant has now been issued has now been issued for her arrest, law enforcement sources told the news network.

Autry last appeared in court on November 8, where she was arraigned on the trespass charges.

At the time, she hit headlines after turning the courthouse hallway into her own personal catwalk.

The New York local made a series of exaggerated poses for press photographers as she strutted through the corridor in silver heels and fishnet stockings.

Myah Autry, 32, is now a wanted fugitive after failing to show up for a scheduled court appearance earlier this week. She is pictured above on November 8 after her arraignment on trespassing charges relating to a September stunt in which she jumped into a lion's enclosure at the Bronx Zoo

Autry was caught on camera entering the lion's den at the Bronx Zoo on September 28

According to local reports, Autry's courtroom antics were just as eccentric as her fashion choices.

The New York Post reported at the time that she interrupted the judge several times during the proceedings, to cry out: 'All promises go to Jah and Jehovah!'

When instructed to sign documents, she reportedly declared: 'I'm an educated Negro woman. I don't sign nothing. All praise to you be Allah!'

At the conclusion of the arraignment, Autry was released on her own recognizance.

A week earlier, Autry appeared in court in Kearny, New Jersey, on an unrelated shoplifting charge where she spoke about her encounter with the Bronx Zoo lion.

Autry last appeared in court on November 8, where she was arraigned on the trespass charges

Autry told NBC 4: 'I fear nobody. No animal, no human, no one. So no, I wasn't fearing of the lion because the lion loved me. That's why he came to me and I let the lion know: Lion, I love you.'

She continued: 'I am the lion now. Can't you tell? Have you ever heard of reincarnation? Do your history young man.'

Meanwhile, a source told The New York Post that Autry jumped the fence at the Bronx Zoo on September 28 because 'of rage over her boyfriend'.

'He was driving her crazy,' the source said when explaining her motive for the dangerous stunt.

Autry - who refers to herself as Queen Empress Myah Laree Israelite on Instagram - had been celebrating her birthday at the Bronx Zoo before she was filmed taunting the lion

Autry - who refers to herself as Queen Empress Myah Laree Israelite on Instagram - had been celebrating her birthday at the Bronx Zoo before she was filmed taunting the lion.

In one clip, Autry was filmed waving and trying to get the lion's attention inside the enclosure.

However, the lion, remarkably, stood still and watched the woman as she began to dance and taunt the predator.

In the background, people were heard expressing disbelief that she was inside the enclosure as they pleaded with her to get out.