Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen braved the New York chill for a quick smoke after they enjoyed a dinner for two on Wednesday evening.

The fashion designing duo went against twin expectations and donned diverse winter evening wear.

The outing came as fans speculated that the pair's Full House character Michelle Tanner may have been killed off, after analyzing a scene in the fifth and final season.

Sister smoke break: Mary-Kate Olsen (left) and Ashley Olsen (right) braved the NYC chill for a quick smoke after enjoying a dinner for two on Wednesday evening

During a family celebration at the Tanner house in a recently screened episode of the Fuller House reboot, Danny Tanner (Bob Saget) embraced two of his daughters, DJ and Stephanie. He then hugged their best friend, Kimmy Gibbler and told the trio 'it's so nice to have three daughters again'.

While he may simply have been referring to Michelle's absence, fans quickly debated whether his words mean she has died.

Alive or not, Ashley and Mary-Kate have made it clear they have no desire to return for the reboot, having given up acting.

On Wednesday, the Elizabeth And James brand owners didn't let the cold weather deter their commitment to style.

Both Olsens wore their hair slicked back into high-fashion inspired ponytails.

Fluffy fashion: Ashley, opting for a more dimensional look, wrapped herself in a calf-length, fluffy coat coordinated with a pair of flared legged pants similar in color

Monochrome: Mary-Kate went for a monochromatic look which, included a long-line, black coat and a pair of fitted, black slacks

Outfit wise, Mary-Kate went for a monochromatic look which, included a long-line, black coat and a pair of fitted, black slacks.

To give the look some contrast and edge, Mary-Kate slipped into a pair of white trainers to complete her outfit.

Ashley, opting for a more dimensional look, wrapped herself in a calf-length, fluffy coat coordinated with a pair of flared legged pants similar in color.

No sacrifice: The Elizabeth and James brand owners didn't let the cold weather deter their commitment to style

As they were: The Olsen twins played Michelle Tanner in Full House as young children

The Olsen sisters, unlike most young celebrities, have stayed clear of social media, but made a rare exception Wednesday morning for one very special celebrity fan.

The two appeared Ashley Benson's Instagram page where the sisters wished the 30-year-old Pretty Little Liars star a 'Happy Birthday.'

The video, posted to Benson's personal Instagram page, featured both sisters wishing the actress their best wishes for the new year.

Both in good spirits, the Olsen's concluded the surprise birthday video by stating they 'can't wait to meet [Benson] soon' and blowing kisses to the camera.

Superfan surprise: Ashley Benson, star of Pretty Little Liars, celebrated her 30th birthday and got a personalized video message from the Olsen's

Best wishes: The video, posted to Benson's personal Instagram page, featured both sisters wishing the actress a 'Happy Birthday' and best wishes for the new year

Though the twins stay as far away as they can from the social media, that doesn't negate the fact that they have been hard at work on their fashion line, Elizabeth and James.

The line, sold exclusively at Kohl's, dropped on November 7th and toted itself as a 'curated lifestyle brand,' according to the Elizabeth and James Instagram page.

The drop featured an array of 90s-does-60s style silhouettes and prints.