Advertisement

A fashion photographer has transformed her LA home into a 1970s version of Barbie's Dreamhouse. Jamie Nelson, 36, from Los Angeles, California, has made a name for herself in the fashion industry, photographing the likes of Drew Barrymore and Gwen Stefani . But now she is making waves with her San Fernando Valley home, a pink-pillared mansion with a matching convertible parked outside.

A person could easily assume that the pink spinning bed or the fur-walled bathroom on Jamie's Instagram is just a part of her job. However, this is Jamie's not-so-humble abode, which boast a fabulous retro interior with a burst of color inside.

Described as 'Barbie meets Madonna Inn meets the 70s,' the house draws inspiration from the iconic Pink Palace, and it was previously owned by Hollywood bombshell Jayne Mansfield.

'I moved to LA from New York City two years ago and I've been creating my dream house ever since. I came to LA with a pink house in mind,' Jamie said. She has spent the last two years transforming the home from a blank canvas into a creation of color with 70s vibes.

'When I first moved into the house [it was] a blank canvas and I had to take each element that [Jayne] left — whether it was the blue curtains or pink curtains — and determine where I was going to with each room based on that.' For Jamie, it was important she kept an element of the previous owner's style: 'It took a lot of work to figure out — how do I keep this classy and how do I respect the vision she had and still bring in myself and edge it up?'

Rather than make the entire house pink, Jamie decided each room would take on a different color and theme. 'I don't ever get tired of the colors of the rooms because there's a blue room, a yellow room, a red room, a pink room, a gold room.'

Growing up in Colorado Springs, Jamie was always infatuated with visuals of decades gone by and dreamed of becoming an artist. From the age of 17, she formulated a plan to live in a pink house, surrounded by pool boys serving her drinks while she floated on a pink flamingo. 'I dreamed I'd live in my pink mansion and they'd serve me grapes and cocktails.'

Jamie has had numerous requests for music videos, fashion campaigns and commercials to be filmed at the house.

The blue room is often used as a wardrobe room, and she said: 'It gets used a lot for photoshoots, we've had celebrities come in here and enjoy their own private dressing room.' And even Vogue has requested the use of her 'red bedroom.'

Jamie also owns a pink convertible to match her home.

Jamie's favorite room in the house is her master bedroom, with a bathroom covered wall to wall in pink fur. Complete with a round spinning bed and chandelier, the bedroom epitomizes the charm of the entire house. 'Pink is a representation of softness and femininity for me,' she explained.

Though some may come to the conclusion that Jamie is the embodiment of 'girlie, 'she promises she has always been a bit of a tomboy and has her 'guy's cave' filled with two motorcycles and a truck to prove it. 'I've always been a really strong woman,' she said.

Although Jamie thought she'd feel lonely when she moved here, she feels anything but. 'I've had people here every single day. Even it's a commercial job, I end up meeting friends and inviting people over to my parties.'