PERTH, Australia (AP) - Australia압 embattled prime minister defended his government압 climate policy on Monday, as authorities warned that the wildfires ravaging the country압 most populous state could fester for months.

Around 200 wildfires were burning in four states, with New South Wales accounting for more than half of them, including 60 fires not contained.

The disaster has led to renewed criticism that Prime Minister Scott Morrison압 conservative government has not taken enough action on climate change.

Morrison rejected calls to downsize Australia압 lucrative coal industry. Australia is the world압 largest exporter of coal and liquefied natural gas.

"I am not going to write off the jobs of thousands of Australians by walking away from traditional industries," he told Channel Seven.

Morrison made the rounds on several Australian television networks Monday morning in the aftermath of his much criticized family vacation to Hawaii during the wildfire crisis.

In this image made from video taken on Dec. 22, 2019, and provided by Oakbank Balhannah CFS, a koala drinks water from a bottle given by a firefighter in Cudlee Creek, South Australia. Around 200 wildfires were burning in four states, with New South Wales accounting for more than half of them, including 60 fires not contained. (Oakbank Balhannah CFS via AP)

He eventually cut short his vacation and returned to Sydney over the weekend before visiting evacuation and emergency control centers and the families of two firefighters killed battling blazes last Thursday southwest of Sydney.

"We all make decisions. You do as a parent, I do as a parent. We앏l seek to balance our work life responsibilities and we all try to get that right," Morrison told Channel Seven.

Video posted on Facebook by firefighters in South Australia state and shared with The Associated Press shows a firefighter giving water to a thirsty koala Sunday as fires raged in Cudlee Creek, a town 40 kilometers (25 miles) northeast of Adelaide, the state capital.

More than 3 million hectares (7.4 million acres) of land has burned nationwide during a torrid past few months, with nine people killed and more than 950 homes destroyed. About 850 homes have burned in New South Wales, which last week was paralyzed by a seven-day state of emergency amid catastrophic conditions.

There is expected to be some desperately needed relief this week for New South Wales, with cooler conditions forecast. The state's Rural Fire Service commissioner, Shane Fitzsimmons, however, painted a bleak long-term picture.

"We았e got to keep in mind that were not expecting any rainfall to make any meaningful difference to these fires until January or February," he said. "That압 still a way to go. Were still talking four to six weeks at best before we start to see a meaningful reprieve in the weather."

Morrison압 coalition government won a surprise third term in May. Among its pledges was to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 26% to 28% by 2030 - a modest figure compared to the center-left opposition압 pledge of 45%.

Morrison insisted Australia would meet its emission targets.

"I앐 going to maintain the course of responsible management, responsibly addressing the changes of climate change and responsibly ensuring that we can grow our economy in what is a very tough climate at the moment," he said.

Later on Monday, Morrison took an aerial tour of the bushland where the Gospers Mountain megafire destroyed dozens of homes and around 484,000 hectares (1.19 million acres) northwest of Sydney.

Morrison said a scheduled meeting in March of state and federal leaders, where the wildfire crisis is expected to be a major talking point, would not be moved forward. "What will happen after these fires is we'll plan to do it even better next time," he told reporters. "There are already options and proposals that are being worked on now for us to consider."

The opposition Labor party has pressed Morrison to consider compensation for volunteer firefighters.

"They (fire commissioners and chiefs) are very comfortable with the arrangements we have," Morrison said. "What is particularly taxing during this fire season is the length and that's why I'm taking advice from fire commissioners on what is best needed to continue to support that important volunteer force."

Areas south of Sydney remain worst affected, with an emergency warning currently in place for Shoalhaven, while a fire at Grose Valley in the Blue Mountains, a popular tourist destination, is currently at the watch and act level.

In this image made from video taken on Dec. 22, 2019, and provided by Oakbank Balhannah CFS, a koala drinks water from a bottle given by a firefighter in Cudlee Creek, South Australia. Around 200 wildfires were burning in four states, with New South Wales accounting for more than half of them, including 60 fires not contained. (Oakbank Balhannah CFS via AP)

In this image made from video, Australia's Prime Minister Scott Morrison looks at fire damage from helicopter near Gospers Mountain, New South Wales Monday, Dec. 23, 2019. Around 200 wildfires were burning in four states, with New South Wales accounting for more than half of them, including 60 fires not contained. (Australian Pool via AP)

In this Saturday, Dec. 21, 2019, photo, NSW Rural Fire Service crew fight the Gospers Mountain Fire as it impacts a property at Bilpin, New South Wales state, Australia. Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Sunday, Dec. 22, apologized for taking a family vacation in Hawaii as deadly bushfires raged across several states, destroying homes and claiming the lives of two volunteer firefighters.(Dan Himbrechts/AAP Images via AP)

In this image made from video taken and provided by NSW Rural Fire Service via their twitter account, a firefighter sprays water on a fire moving closer to a home in Blackheath, New South Wales state, Australia Sunday, Dec. 22, 2019. Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Sunday apologized for taking a family vacation in Hawaii as deadly bushfires raged across several states, destroying homes and claiming the lives of two volunteer firefighters.(Twitter@NSWRFS via AP)

In this image made from video taken and provided by NSW RFS via their twitter account, a firefighter sprays water on a fire moving closer to a home in Blackheath, New South Wales state, Australia Sunday, Dec. 22, 2019. Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Sunday apologized for taking a family vacation in Hawaii as deadly bushfires raged across several states, destroying homes and claiming the lives of two volunteer firefighters.(Twitter@NSWRFS via AP)

In this image made from video taken Dec. 21, 2019, kangaroos move as nearby property burn in a fire in Lithgow, New South Wales state, Australia. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Sunday apologized for taking a family vacation in Hawaii as deadly bushfires raged across several states, destroying homes and claiming the lives of two volunteer firefighters.(Australian Broadcasting Corporation via AP)

A statue of Buddha damaged by Saturday's catastrophic bushfires in the Southern Highlands village of Balmoral, southwest of Sydney, Monday, Dec. 23, 2019. Around 200 wildfires were burning in four states, with New South Wales accounting for more than half of them, including 60 fires not contained. (Mick Tsikas/AAP Images via AP)