Royle Family star Sue Johnston was left so upset by the death of her co-star Caroline Aherne she has since struggled to watch any of the show's Christmas specials.

Sue, who played Barbara Royle in the much-loved sitcom, discussed the death of her on-screen daughter during an appearance on This Morning on Thursday.

Caroline died aged 52 in 2016 after a battle with lung cancer, and Sue, 76, said watching the comedy show has since been 'very hard'.

Sad: Royle Family star Sue Johnston was left so upset by the death of her co-star Caroline Aherne that she has since struggled to watch any of the show's Christmas specials

'The other night, I couldn't sleep, I put the telly on and there was a Christmas special on,' Sue said.

'I've found it very hard to watch since Caroline died, but there it was: the frozen turkey, with Dave shaving in the bath.'

As well as being mother to Caroline's character Denise and her brother Anthony (Ralph Little), Sue was on-screen wife to Jim Royle (Ricky Tomlinson).

The actress said Christmas day is 'very poignant' because Caroline's birthday was at the same time.

Good times: Sue played Barbara Royle in the show, who was mother to Caroline's character Denise (right) (pictured together in 1998)

'At Christmas it's very poignant because Caroline's birthday was on Christmas Day.'

She went on to say there was a 'sadness' among her and her co-stars because they will never make the show again in Caroline's absence.

'It was very much like a family because when they changed the lights round from scene to scene we never left the sofa we just used to talk around and laugh and we were very fond of each other, and there's a sadness because we will never get to do that again.'

The show ran regularly from 1998 until 2000 and then Christmas special episodes were aired from 2006 until 2012.

Much-loved: Caroline died aged 52 in 2016 after a battle with lung cancer, and Sue said that watching the comedy show has since been 'very hard' (pictured in 2016)

Father and daughter: Caroline's character Denise was the daughter of Ricky Tomlinson's character Jim Royle (pictured: The pair in the 2000 Christmas special)

Sue also opened up about her brief first stint on Coronation Street in 1982, before she landed a part in the then-new soap Brookside alongside Ricky Tomlinson.

'I did three episodes playing a woman called Mrs. Chadwick, who was a bookie's wife.

'While I was filming that I went for an audition for Brookside and got that just before I did the third episode of 'Corrie'.'

Never go back: Sue went on to say that there was a 'sadness' among her and her co-stars because they will never make the show again in Caroline's absence

Early beginnings: Sue also opened up about her brief first stint on Coronation Street in 1982, before she landed a part in the then-new soap Brookside alongside Ricky Tomlinson

Sue was cast as Sheila Grant in Brookside and she remained on the Channel 4 soap for eight years, during which time her character was initially married to Bobby Grant, who was played by Ricky.

She admitted Brookside was particularly 'exciting' when it first began, and the actors were especially looking forward to acting in real houses rather than sets.

She added: 'It was very exciting because it was very new, and very different.

'I think because it was not in a studio for the first time, it was filmed on one single camera in real houses, all that generated an excitement as well. And wonderful writers.

'That's where I first met Ricky.'

Sue later returned to Corrie in 2012, playing Gloria Price until 2014 and is narrating the show's Christmas special.