This year's most exceptional scientific achievement is the remarkable first ever picture of a black hole.

It required the use of a virtual telescope that employed a host of satellites around Earth and the co-operation of more than 200 scientists around the world.

The remarkable achievement of imaging a black hole at the centre of a galaxy 55 million light years away has now been honoured by the science world as a whole.

Black holes are invisible but the ultra-hot material swirling around them forms a ring of light that reveals the mouth of the object itself based on its silhouette.

This boundary is known as the event horizon and it was this that was pictured, on an enormous scale.

Scientists have lifted the veil on the first images ever captured of a black hole's event horizon. In a highly-anticipated string of press conferences held simultaneously around the world, the team behind the Event Horizon Telescope revealed the findings from their first run of observations. The glowing orange ring shows the event horizon of M87, in the Virgo galaxy cluster

WHAT IS AN EVENT HORIZON? The event horizon is theoretical boundary around a black hole where not light or other radiation can escape. When any of that material gets too close to the edge of the hole, known as the event horizon, its atoms are ripped apart. The nuclei disappear below the horizon, the much lighter electrons get caught up in the black hole's intense magnetic field and tosses them around at high speed. This twisting motion causes them to release photons, which is the main source of emission from matter close to the black hole.

'This was a great year for science, but what could be more wondrous than actually seeing a black hole?' said Tim Appenzeller, Science's news editor.

'It sounds like magic, but it was really an astonishing feat of teamwork and technology,' he added.

The breakthrough, announced April 10, added major support for Einstein's theory of General Relativity and could help to answer longstanding questions on the nature of black holes.

The image focused on the results from the first full run of the observatory network, which was conducted in 2017 through the collaboration of scientists operating eight radio observatories.

The Event Horizon Telescope (EHT) team was able to capture the silhouette of the super massive black hole that lies at the center of Messier 87 (M87).

The data put Einstein's theory to what could be its most rigorous test yet; the size and shape of the observed black hole can all be predicted by the General Relativity equations, which posits it to be roughly circular. The simulations (top row) are shown above alongside the image of the black hole itself (bottom row)

This galaxy is nearly 55 million light-years from Earth and the black hole at its centre weighs as much as 6.5 billion suns - dwarfing our solar system

This galaxy is nearly 55 million light-years from Earth and the black hole at its centre weighs as much as 6.5 billion suns.

'I'm still kind of stunned,' said Roger Blandford, a Stanford University astrophysicist.

'I don't think any of us imagined the iconic image that was produced.'

The experiment's success was front-page news around the world and quickly became the most downloaded image in the history of the National Science Foundation's website.

Currently, plans are underway for more observations with even greater resolution; 'this year's triumph is the beginning, not the culmination, of this research project, said Blandford.