People's understanding of supposedly 'equivalent' words used to express emotions — such as love, fear or anxiety — vary greatly between different languages, a study found.

Researchers studied words describing emotion in more than 2,000 languages and found 'significant variation' in how emotions are expressed across cultures.

For example, the researchers found that among the languages of the Pacific Islands, the words equivalent to the English word 'surprise' are closely associated with 'fear'.

In contrast, the words for surprise in the languages of south-east Asia are more closely connected to concepts like 'hope' and 'wanting'.

The team also found words with no equivalent in other languages, like Portuguese's 'saudade', a deep melancholy for something lost, which has no English counterpart.

Scroll down for video

The supposedly equivalent words used to express emotions — such as love, fear or anxiety — in different languages vary greatly in their actual meanings, a study found. Pictured, the universal network of colexified emotional concepts (those described by shared words)

Experts studied words describing emotion in 2,474 languages and found 'significant variation' in how emotions are expressed across cultures. Pictured, the networks of colexified emotional concepts (those described by shared words) in Austronesian and Indo-European languages

Psychologist Joshua Jackson of the University of North Carolina in the US and colleagues studied semantic patterns — those relating to the meaning of words — around emotion in a sample of 2,474 languages from 20 linguistic families.

In particular, the team were focused on those words that have more than one meaning in a given language — a phenomenon known as colexification.

'The emotion "surprise" is particularly helpful for understanding this study,' explains Mr Jackson.

'One language family has negative associations with [their equivalent of the] word and another has positive associations.'

'You can imagine how speakers of these different languages might respond to people jumping from behind furniture or out of a dark room and shouting "Surprise!"'

The researchers found that languages across the globe described emotions differently, despite such being equated in translation dictionaries.

For example, Persians in Iran use the word 'aenduh' to express both the concepts of 'grief' and 'regret'.

Meanwhile, in in the language of Dargwa — which is spoken in the Russian republic of Dagestan — the word 'dard' is used to indicate 'grief' as well as 'anxiety'.

'Persian speakers may therefore understand "grief" as an emotion more similar to "regret", whereas Dargwa speakers may understand "grief" as more similar to "anxiety",' the researchers wrote in their paper.

In addition, the team found that geography played a role in emotional expression across different cultures, with language groups located closer to one another sharing more similar views of emotion than those typically spoken further away.

For example, the researchers found that among the languages of the Pacific Islands, the words equivalent to the English word 'surprise' are closely associated with 'fear'. Pictured, s colexification network highlighting the link between surprise and fear

In contrast, the words for surprise in the languages of south-east Asia are more closely connected to concepts like 'hope' and 'wanting'. Pictured, the global distribution of languages in which 'surprise' and 'fear' are expressed by the same word (in red) and different words (grey)

'This difference is likely because of historical contact and communications among nearby groups, which has led to a stronger shared understanding of emotions,' said Mr Jackson.

In contrast, the team found that all languages were able to distinguish emotions based on whether they were pleasant or unpleasant to experience, regardless of the geography.

According to the researchers, the findings suggest that 'universal elements of emotion experience may stem from biological evolution'.

'In such a diverse sample, I was surprised to see how universally languages distinguished pleasant emotions from unpleasant emotions,' said Mr Jackson.

'These large associative networks will not only help us study how humans make meaning of different concepts, they can also shed light on cultural differences in this meaning-making,' said paper author and psychologist Kristen Lindquist.

'Psychologists have long studied how humans understand their worlds, and future researchers will be able to apply our method to study understanding of different kinds of concepts.'

'We hope future research will make use of this methodology and examine the specific processes that create cultural and geographic variation in how people understand and experience emotion,' agreed Mr Jackson.

The full findings of the study were published in the journal Science.