Some of Liverpool's best business has been conducted in January, such as the bargain £8.5million buy of Philippe Coutinho in 2013. Now, they have Takumi Minamino for just £7.25m.

It sounds cheap – and it is, owing to an opportune release clause that existed in his contract – but that should not undermine what Minamino will bring to the table.

As we now know, Liverpool's recruitment team have tracked this Japanese international for several years. There is a reason for that – he will suit their style to a tee.

Takumi Minamino is a snip for Liverpool at £7.25m, but that shouldn't undermine his ability

The Red Bull Salzburg man will join in January and provide much-needed front-line cover

Liverpool have won possession in the final third more than any other Premier League club. They press aggressively and like to win the ball high up the pitch.

In the Austrian Bundesliga, no forward has made more recoveries than Minamino this season. He ranks highly for interceptions and tackles, too, due to his busy nature.

Liverpool realised their workload could take its toll in the second half of the season, as they chase their first league title in 30 years. Klopp was keen for cover up front.

Minamino is capable of acting as understudy to Roberto Firmino, with him walking into a system that is not dissimilar to the one played by RB Salzburg.

In their 2-0 win in Austria earlier this month, Liverpool got to keep a close eye on him. Salzburg played 4-1-2-1-2, while the visitors were set up in their usual 4-3-3.

Firmino, at the centre of Liverpool's front three, drops deep to act as the link-up man. That is similar to Minamino's role, too, as he sits behind Salzburg's two strikers.

Minamino can play in the middle of a three in a 4-2-3-1 or in the middle of a front three in 4-3-3

Jurgen Klopp will be delighted to have successfully brought Minamino into his Liverpool squad

One potential line-up could see Minamino fill in for Roberto Firmino in Klopp's favoured 4-3-3

MINAMINO'S CAREER 2007-2015: Cerezo Osaka 2015-2019: Red Bull Salzburg 2020-present: Liverpool

He finds pockets of space between the lines and looks to pick up possession. Defenders find this difficult to defend. Centre backs do not know whether to drop or stay.

Salzburg's full backs push high to provide width while Minamino mans that narrow midfield. It all goes through him and he always expects to receive the ball, even in tight spots.

He keeps close control with excellent technical ability and, with 42 goals and 20 assists in 136 Bundesliga games, has an eye for setting up a team-mate.

The runs of Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane will be a dream for him.

He could provide back-up for Firmino in the middle of a front three in Klopp's usual 4-3-3

The runs of Mohamed Salah (pictured) and Sadio Mane will be absolutely perfect for Minamino

Another option could be for Minamino to slot in behind Firmino in a 4-2-3-1, as against Watford

Against Watford on Saturday, Klopp sprung a surprise with a 4-2-3-1 formation. This could work in Minamino's favour, as he slots seamlessly into that three.

Time will tell what Klopp's plans are for him, and how much responsibility he will be given.

Klopp was light in attack, with Daniel Sturridge having never really been replaced after leaving on a free. Rhian Brewster could be allowed to leave on loan, too.

So bringing in Minamino is a smart move. He will provide competition for Xherdan Shaqiri and Co and could have a big role to play after January.

The Japanese international will provide competition for Xherdan Shaqiri from January

He says it is a dream come true to sign for Liverpool, and he now needs to prove his worth

'It has been a dream, my dream to become a Liverpool player. And I'm so excited that the moment has come true,' Minamino said after the news was announced.

'To play in the Premier League was one of my targets. I think this is the top-class league in the world. I was thinking if my career as a footballer progressed smoothly, someday I would be able to play in the Premier League.'

Now, it is his challenge to prove he belongs here.