If you have been affected by the death of an infant please call Sands charity hotline on 0808 164 3332

Kym Marsh was left 'in tears' after a troll made a nasty comment about her late son on her Instagram Thursday.

The 43-year-old star - who plays Michelle Connor on Coronation Street - hit back as she shared the cruel comment taking aim at her late son, who tragically passed away minutes after being born prematurely in 2009.

The horrific comment read: 'Stop acting like your nice and kind and sweet and a sweetie Kym your nothing to 'corrie' and me go to heaven like your s**t of a son'.

Heartbreaking: Kym Marsh, 43, admits she was left 'in tears' by a cruel fan trolling her late son on Instagram as she shared the remarks on Thursday

The actress took a screenshot of the comment and uploaded it to her Instagram, and claimed she doesn't 'care what people say' about her, but this comment about her late son had left her upset.

Her caption read: 'This person @charley_webb_biggestfan has since deleted this comment that was very cruelly left on one of my Instagram posts this morning.

'I'm sorry, I don't really care what people say about me, people are allowed an opinion, that's none of my business, but to say such cruel things. I'm in tears reading this today. Something has to be done about this!'

Troll: The actress took a screenshot of the comment and uploaded it to her Instagram, and claimed she doesn't 'care what people say' about her, but this comment had left her upset

Reaching out: The real Charley Webb showed her support. She is aunt to Kym's late son and the troll was a 'fan account' of the soap star

Fans were quick to reach out to Kym, with the real Charley Webb - whose brother Jamie Lomas is Archie's dad - admitting she was 'disgusted'.

She wrote: 'I'm absolutely disgusted at this comment'.

To which Kym replied: 'I knew you would be. Can't believe they eve dare to claim to be your biggest fan! X'

Fan support: Fans were quick to show their support for Kym, with one comment saying: 'They are not worth the time spent on them. We all love you. Keep smiling'

However the soap star had to quickly jump to the defence of her late sons aunt, who some fans were confusing with the troll.

She posted: 'There are some people messaging @miss_charleywebb thinking it's her that's made comments. It's not her it's someone claiming to be her fan! Charley is my sons aunty and is disgusted by it. And is supporting me xx'

Following the outpouring of support from fans, the 'Pure and Simple' hitmaker later thanked her fans for the support.

Family: The actress with her family- she shares Polly, eight, with Jamie Lomas. Kym also has two older children David, 24, and Emilie, 22 (pictured)

She wrote: 'Thanks for all your support today guys. It's much needed'.

Comments were left supporting the star, one said: 'They are not worth the time spent on them. We all love you. Keep smiling'

The actress was married to Jamie for six years and they share daughter Polly, eight. Kym also has two older children David, 24, and Emilie, 22.

This year she became a Grandmother when her daughter gave birth in May.