Laura Whitmore and boyfriend Iain Stirling are reportedly set to form the dream team for the winter series of Love Island, after host Caroline Flack stood down on Tuesday.

The presenter, 34, and the comedian, 31, moved in together last December and have shared a sneak peak inside their festive London home on Instagram.

Laura has been tipped to take over as the host of Love Island, after Caroline was charged with assault following a row with her boyfriend Lewis Burton, 27.

Power couple: Laura Whitmore and boyfriend Iain Stirling are reportedly set to form the dream team for the winter series of Love Island, after host Caroline Flack stood down on Tuesday

Despite the prospect of jetting out to South Africa in January, Laura has gone all out with the festive decorations- especially outside of their home.

The television personality proudly showed off her decadent wreath, which was adorned with red roses, pine cones and baubles.

Adding to the festivities, the star also also had a mini wooden Christmas tree outside of their front door.

The next step: The presenter, 34, and the comedian, 31, moved in together with their dog Mick last December

It's beginning to look a lot like Christmas: Despite the prospect of jetting out to South Africa in January, Laura has gone all out with the festive decorations- especially outside of their home

Laura also decorated their ground floor flat for Halloween and shared a snap of herself and Iain posing as Margot Robbie and Richie beside their leaf and sunflower flower wall.

While the Irish beauty has paid attention to the exterior of their North London home, Iain has decorated the interior with custom made artwork.

One piece stands above a fireplace while another is situated by an alcove in the living room.

Decor: Laura also decorated their ground floor flat for Halloween and shared a snap of herself and Iain posing as Margot Robbie and Richie beside their leaf and sunflower flower wall

Cool: While the Irish beauty has paid attention to the exterior of their North London home, Iain has decorated the interior with custom made artwork

Sneak peek: The living room features Iain's guitars, a plush leather sofa and quirky artwork

Stylish: The living room features shelved alcoves filled with books, frames and trinkets

Last December, the pair documented moving in together and shared a selfie of themselves unloading their moving van, with their dog Mick.

Laura captioned the post: Now taking bookings for all house removals for 2019 #manwithavan#unboxing Mick charges extra'.

Another photo showed Laura sitting at their dinner table with fish and chips for 'the first supper'.

On Wednesday, MailOnline revealed ITV is gearing up to announce the former E4 host will present the winter edition as bosses are 'keen to keep it in the family.'

Wow: Laura shared a snap from her bathroom earlier this year, which came complete with a TV

Christmas: Iain draped his awards in Santa hat to get into the festive spirit

Abstract: Laura carried on the tears of a crying lady onto the wall and tiles of her home

Plenty to unpack: Last December, the Irish presenter shared a snap of her dressing room filled with boxes

Moreover, ITV want the blonde beauty and her funny partner to co-present the spin-off show, Aftersun, on Sunday nights as they have a great dynamic, meaning he will get a bigger role.

No doubt Laura, who has a squeaky clean image, is a safe choice for the channel who won't want to take any risks with who they hire.

The pair met in 2016 but it wasn't until the following summer that things turned romantic between them.

Iain said last year during an appearance on the Chris Ramsey show: 'I’ve got someone who’s like me, but much, much better. And Laura’s got someone who’s like her, but much worse. I’ve done well out of it, but I’m dead happy because she’s lovely and stuff.'

They will already have to pay for costly reshoots after Caroline had already filmed promotional material in South Africa for the show which will begin on January 12.