Hillary Clinton patted herself, and her supporters, on the back for impeaching President Trump.

'The president has abused his power—using his office to further not the nation's objectives but his own personal, political objectives—and, together, we are holding him accountable,' she tweeted Thursday, a day after the House's impeachment vote. 'Feel proud. Keep going.'

A day before, Clinton had given a thumbs up to Trump joining the impeachment club, of which her husband is the most modern member.

'Impeachment is the only remedy,' Clinton declared on Twitter.

Hillary Clinton took some credit for President Trump's impeachment in a new tweet Thursday. On Wednesday, she officially endorsed his impeachment

'Together, we are holding him accountable,' Hillary Clinton announced Thursday on Twitter, adding, 'Feel proud. Keep going'

Hillary Clinton called impeachment the 'only remedy' in a tweet she sent out Wednesday as the House of Representatives conducted their final impeachment debate

President Clinton is photographed as he denies having an affair with White House intern Monica Lewinsky

It was his affair with Monica Lewinsky (left) that eventually got President Bill Clinton (right) impeached on December 19, 1998

She had noted that, 'One of our most precious rights as Americans is the right to determine who our leaders are.'

'The president abused his powers to cheat in the next election and rob us of that right,' she wrote. 'Then he obstructed Congress to cover it up,' she said, simplifying the two articles of impeachment that the House passed Wednesday night.

Clinton had also used Twitter to draw attention to a petition that has been signed by more than 1,500 historians who are for Trump's impeachment.

'President Trump’s numerous and flagrant abuses of power are precisely what the Framers had in mind as grounds for impeaching and removing a president,' the signees argued.

While Clinton was born long after the first presidential impeachment - that of Andrew Johnson in 1868 - she's been connected to every impeachment attempt since.

After graduating from Yale Law School in 1973, Clinton joined the staff of the House Judiciary Committee special counsel in 1974 during the Watergate impeachment inquiry.

President Nixon, a Republican, resigned on August 9, 1974 instead of facing a House impeachment vote. Nixon had lost his party's support and wouldn't survive a Senate trial.

Clinton was first lady during 1998, when her husband, President Bill Clinton, was impeached in the House for lying to a grand jury under oath. Bill Clinton had fibbed about an affair he had with former White House intern Monica Lewinsky. He was acquitted in the Senate in 1999.

Hillary Clinton remained supportive of her husband throughout the scandal, and decided to stay with him despite the affair.

In October, while promoting her new book 'The Book of Gutsy Woman' co-authored by daughter Chelsea Clinton, Clinton said the gutsiest thing she'd ever done personally was 'the decision to stay in my marriage.'

In the latest impeachment, Clinton is a spectator - but is also a specter too.

The origins of the Ukrainian scandal began with Russian interference in 2016.

While Trump is accused of pressuring Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to announce an investigation into Joe and Hunter Biden - which looks to 2020 - he also wanted the Ukrainian president's help in firming up a conspiracy theory that Ukraine, not Russia, meddled in 2016.

In the president's frenzied six-page note, since to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi he brought up Clinton's defeat, though not by name, as he blasted Democrats for the forthcoming impeachment vote.

'Everyone, you included, knows what is really happening. Your chosen candidate lost the election in 2016, in an Electoral College landslide,' Trump wrote, getting the number wrong. '[A]nd you and your party have never recovered from this defeat'

President Trump brought up Hillary Clinton's election loss in his six-page screed he addressed Tuesday to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi

'You have developed a full-fledged case of what many in the media call Trump Derangement Syndrome and sadly, you will never get over it!' Trump said.

Clinton's name was also muttered on the House floor Wednesday as lawmakers debated the two articles of impeachment.

They hate this president. They hate those of us who voted for him. They think we're stupid. They think we made a mistake. They think Hillary Clinton should be the president and they want to fix that,' Rep. Chris Stewart, a Utah Republican, said blasting Democrats.

Rep. Jerry Nadler, the New York Democrat in charge of the House Judiciary Committee, wasn't having it.

'I would remind the gentleman that if President Trump is impeached and removed the new president would be Mike Pence, not Hillary Clinton,' Nadler said after Stewart's turn.

Several minutes later, Clinton came up again.

'And if my Democrat colleagues were honest they'd tell us the only thing President Trump is guilty of is not being Hillary Clinton,' said Rep. Roger Marshall, a Kansas Republican, from the House floor.