The ex-wife of Linkin Park rocker Chester Bennington is getting a huge chunk of his estate.

Samantha Olit was awarded 50% of his estate's Linkin Park royalties to her, according to documents obtained by TMZ.

Chester Bennington committed suicide at the age of 41 in his family home in Palos Verde in July 2017, while his wife Talinda and their children were out of town.

Splitting up assets: Samantha Olit, the ex-wife of Linkin Park rocker Chester Bennington is getting a huge chunk of his estate, according to documents obtained by TMZ

Talinda was named the executor of his estate and, according to TMZ, signed off on Samantha's royalties claim.

The outlet reports that the royalties '[includes] a share of the non-touring merch, publishing rights and a share of the master sound records.'

The claim originally demanded child support as well as royalties but the support part appeared to have been dropped.

Chester and Samantha were married from 1996 to 2005, and together they have a son, Draven Sebastian Bennington.

Details: Chester's ex will get 50% of his estate's Linkin Park royalties, including a share of non-touring merch, publishing rights and master sound records; the deal was signed off by the executor who happens to be his widow Talinda (Pictured: Chester and Samantha 2003)

After Chester and Samantha divorced, the Linkin Park frontman married Talinda Bentley, who he later had three children with.

The Linkin Park star had been very open about his battles with depression and alcohol and drug abuse over the years.

Tragically, Bennington's lifeless body was discovered by his maid on July 20 when she went into his room to tell him that an Uber had arrived to pick him up at the home.

Tragedy: Chester Bennington committed suicide at the age of 41 in his family home in Palos Verde in July 2017, while his wife Talinda and their children were out of town (Pictured 2014)

Since his death, his widow has made it her mission to help shine a light on suicide and mental health as a whole with her work as executive adviser for the Campaign To Change Direction and as co-founder of 320 Changes Direction.

She has also managed to find love again following the loss of her husband.

There is 'love after tragedy,' she recently proclaimed on Instagram to announce that she had gotten engaged.

'A death of a soulmate does not mean the death of you,' she wrote in the opening of her public letter addressed to 'Family.'

Since his death, his widow has made it her mission to help shine a light on suicide and mental health as a whole with her work as executive adviser for the Campaign To Change Direction and as co-founder of 320 Changes Direction (Pictured: Talinda and Chester 2012)

'My family, friends and my Linkin Park brothers welcome him to the family with open arms,' she added.

'I will continue to honor Chester and continue my life's mission to make his passing not in vein [SIC].'

She then directed her words to all suicide loss survivors to tell them that 'you can be happy again. You can have space in your heart for grief, joy, happiness, sadness, and love love.'

The mother of three of the singer's six children ended by thanking everyone for 'your continued love and support.'