Democratic Congresswoman Ilhan Omar was called an adulteress in divorce court Thursday by her lover's former wife as the couple formally ended their marriage.

Beth Jordan said she wanted to 'make a statement' about her husband Tim Mynett having an affair with the radical Democrat, during the 16-minute hearing in Washington D.C.

Mynett left the court after the hearing grinning and clapping his hands in glee. He said he was happy with the proceedings but would not comment further.

The hearing ended abruptly shortly after Jordan, 55, spoke publicly of 37-year-old Omar's affair with Mynett, 38. DailyMail.com first revealed the affair in July, a week after revealing that Omar had split from her husband.

Beth asked for her maiden name Beth Jordan to be restored. When asked why, she replied: 'I no longer want to have Mr. Mynett's name attached to me.'

'I have a statement to make,' Jordan said, saying that her husband 'had an affair with Ilhan Omar.'

Ilhan Omar's campaign fundraiser strategist and lover Tim Mynett, 38, (left) officially divorced from his wife Beth Jordan, 55, (right) Thursday, and left the courthouse grinning

The 38-year-old Democratic Congresswoman was called an adulteress by Jordan in divorce court Thursday for her alleged affair with Mynett

Mynett couldn't contain his joy as he exited the courthouse smiling and clapping his hands

Judge Darlene Soltys cut her off and called both attorneys for a sidebar.

After it ended the judge abruptly told the parties: 'Thank you. Have a nice afternoon,' bringing a curtain down on the seven-year marriage.

Beth asked for her maiden name Beth Jordan to be restored. When asked why, she replied: 'I no longer want to have Mr. Mynett's name attached to me.'

Details of a settlement drawn up to cover alimony, child support and the split of marital property were kept secret and will not be included in the court record. The couple have a 13-year-old son.

Judge Soltys congratulated the couple for reaching a settlement. 'I sit in this courtroom day after day and see people who just fight about anything,' she said.

'It's not in anyone's best interest.'

But she warned that co-parenting their son will be the hardest thing possible and urged them to 'cooperate, communicate and compromise.'

Mynett turned up for court in a blue three-quarter length coat over a dark suit and eggshell blue shirt. He wore a Burberry scarf round his neck. His wife wore a white blouse and knee-length brown skirt.

The couple hardly glanced at each other during the hearing.

As the 10.30 appointed time for their case approached, the couple huddled in separate conference rooms with their attorneys. Eventually the case started exactly two hours late.

The Mynetts split in April. In papers filed in August Mynett claimed he had only agreed to marry Jordan — then his live-in girlfriend — when she threatened to kick him out of their Washington home and make it difficult for him to see their then-six-year-old son.

At the time of their 2012 marriage he was 25 and she was 42. They had been living together for more than six years.

Mynett, who walked out of his marriage to hook up with Ilhan Omar, claimed he never really loved his wife in bombshell court papers previously obtained by DailyMail.com. He said he only agreed to marry his wife Beth Jordan (pictured together) to prevent her from kicking him out of their home away from their then-six-year-old son

Joirdan claimed she was devastated when, during their April talk, Mynett had told her he was in love with Omar, 38, and was 'romantically involved' with her. Pictured: A snapshot of the former couple, with Mynett writing: 'Can you believe she married me?'

The marriage had been 'a rollercoaster of highs and lows,' Mynett said in the papers filed in D.C. Superior Court. But while he listed plenty of 'lows' he failed to mention any 'highs.'

'On multiple occasions, due to the unhappy and unfulfilling nature of their relationship, the parties discussed separation and divorce,' he claimed in papers written by his attorney Sarah Mancinelli.

'Throughout the marriage, the parties had numerous discussions about the problems in their relationship and Mr. Mynett repeatedly voiced to Ms Mynett that he was unhappy and believed she was likewise unhappy,' Mancinelli wrote.

'He stated repeatedly that they needed to find a way to improve their relationship. Unfortunately, those conversations never resulted in meaningful improvements in their marriage.'

In his papers, Mynett, now 38, said he had never really loved his wife — and told her so in their final heart-to-heart. 'Mr. Mynett told Ms Mynett that he had been unhappy for the better part of their relationship,' Mancinelli wrote in the court documents.

'During their conversation in April 2019, and after struggling for the better part of a year to find a path to preserve their union and be happy, Mr. Mynett informed Ms Mynett that he was no longer able to remain in the marriage.'

He said he told her he had not been unfaithful. Jordan nevertheless ordered him out of the house, he said

But Jordan said he had told her that he was in love with the Minnesota congresswoman. In papers she filed, Beth said the marriage collapsed when he announced he was 'romantically involved with and in love with another woman, Ilhan Omar.

'Although devastated by the betrayal and deceit that preceded his abrupt declaration, (Jordan) told (Mynett) that she loved him and was willing to fight for the marriage,' she said.

(Mynett), however told her that was not an option for him. He provided no other explanation for his sudden change of heart.'

Mynett left the court cheerfully as he walked with his lawyer Sarah Mancinelli and flashed a thumbs up. He said he was happy with the proceedings but would not comment further

'I have a statement to make,' Jordan said in court, explicitly saying that her husband 'had an affair with Ilhan Omar,' before being cut off

Jordan attacked her husband's judgment for taking their son to meet Omar formally over dinner at the family's favorite neighborhood restaurant in D.C. while she was out of town.

She described how Omar gave the boy a gift and was even invited inside the Mynett marital home afterwards.

Mynett went to an event with Omar the following night but never came home, Jordan further alleged.

'Most concerning is that (Mynett) put his son in harm's way by taking him out in public with Rep. Omar who at the time had garnered a plethora of media attention along with death threats, one rising to the level of arresting the known would-be assassin that same week.'

That was a reference to a New York man arrested by federal agents in April for threatening to 'put a bullet in [Omar's] f***ing skull.'

Jordan said she was not only a 'devoted' wife but was the primary breadwinner throughout their marriage, complaining that her husband dumped her just as he stood to make substantially more income through his growing firm.

She also claimed that Mynett has a 'history of emotional instability that can cause him to become easily angered and rageful.'

Omar's divorce from her husband Ahmed Hirsi was finalized just 30 days after she filed in early October. She filed after DailyMail.com had revealed she had moved out of the family home in Minneapolis and into a penthouse apartment

Mynett said he threatened to 'malign her, damage her career' and stop supporting her financially if she took him to court, she alleged, saying his 'bullying tactics are disappointing but not surprising.'

DailyMail.com first revealed that Omar had split with her husband Ahmed Hirsi this summer. We then obtained video of her dining at a romantic out-of-the-way Los Angeles restaurant with a mystery man.

A source who took video of the 'date' said the couple were holding hands over dinner: 'He seemed very protective of her. It just felt to me like they were close,' the source said.

Insiders soon identified the mystery Romeo as Mynett, whose company E Street Group has been on Omar's payroll since July 2018, providing fundraising and strategy. In the three months that ended September 30, Omar's campaign paid Mynett's company more than $90,000, according to figures she provided to the Federal Election Commission.

Omar and Hirsi, who have three children together, were divorced in November.