A Georgia mother has been arrested and jailed after she threatened in a Facebook Live video to shoot students and teachers at her son's school.

Cirea Olivier, 29, warned parents she would be the one responsible if their child came home with a 'black eye' and claimed teachers were refusing to do anything about her son being bullied at Gainsville Middle School.

In the 44-minute clip from Monday around 12.30pm that has since been deleted from the social media website, Olivier says: 'I'ma beat your ass if you keep f**king with my son.

'I'm going to tell you right now, I'm putting a bullet through all y'all [expletive] heads. I put that on my [expletive] kids.'

Scroll down for video

Cirea Olivier, 29, warned parents she would be the one responsible if their child came home with a 'black eye'. She yells: 'I'm going to tell you right now, I'm putting a bullet through all y'all [expletive] heads. I put that on my [expletive] kids'

The parent said she had spoken to staff at the school 'numerous times'.

'I'm going to go up to the school and talk to them again, and I'm going to talk to the Board of Education and talk to whoever I need to up there because something has to be done,' Oliver said in the video.

'It's breaking my heart because it's like nothing I can do. It feels like his world is crashing, and he feels inadequate and he feels like he's nothing.

'It defeats the purpose because I instill at home that he is somebody. That I love him. That he's smart and intelligent.'

Her comments concerned viewers as she was due to collect the boy from classes at the end of the day.

She adds in the live stream: 'Ain't nobody calming down. These kids. It's a lack of parenting and it's a lack of [expletive] teachers giving a [expletive] about these kids,' the angry mother from Hall County yelled.

Olivier was arrested when she arrived at Gainsville Middle School in Georgia and has since been charged with making terroristic threats (pictured in her mug shot)

Gainesville City Schools was alerted about the threats, superintendent, Jeremy Williams, said.

Police responded to Oliver 'insinuating that she was going to shoot multiple people at the school'.

'It wasn't too long after that that our officers were informed of this video that went live, where she does make threats,' Gainesville Corporal Jessica Van told WSB-TV, adding the mother also had a warrant from Cobb County regarding an aggravated assault charge.

'We take these types of calls very seriously, any kinds of threats, especially to our children.'

Oliver was arrested when she arrived at the school and has since been charged with making terroristic threats.

But Oliver's feelings were somewhat shared by other parents whose children attend the school.

Following the arrest they created a Parents Rebuilding the Village group.

Rev. Rose Johnson, who is the executive director of Gainesville's Newtown Florist Club, held a meeting on Tuesday night so parents could share their concerns.

'The incident involving Cirea — or her call for help, as how they see it — is the thing that galvanized these parents to realize that there is so much more that they must do,' Johnson said.

'They talked about the importance of parents being involved to provide the kind of support to their children that they need.

'There was a lot of distress in the room coming from these parents who feel that they have been not supported by the school system around issues relating to the bullying of their children.'

She was arrested Monday afternoon at the school after she claimed teachers were refusing to do anything about her son being bullied

When approached by WSB-TV, Oliver's grandmother said she supports her grandchild and said she would've reacted in the same way.

'She is a good mother,' the woman told the station. 'She was right. I'd do the same thing.'

When questioned about the threat to shoot someone, the grandmother clarified, 'not that'.

The school has refused to comment on specific bullying allegations.

'While we cannot release information pertaining to specific student situations, the district utilizes established procedures for bullying and suicidal ideation,' the school stated.

'Our primary focus is to ensure that appropriate resources and services are available to students whenever needed.'