The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have 'an old-fashioned marriage' but are 'a great double act', according to a friend of the couple.

A source, described as a friend of the couple, told People magazine that Kate Middleton and Prince William, both 37, have a strong partnership in their eight-year union, with the duo 'looking after each other' in different ways.

They said: 'Some people might say it's an old-fashioned marriage, but it seems to work.'

The source suggested that William's more intense side is balanced out by Kate's calm and unwavering poise.

It comes after the royal couple were praised for their 'down to earth' and 'relaxed' attitude in the BBC festive documentary, A Berry Royal Christmas.

A source told People magazine how Prince William, 37, and Kate Middleton, 37, have an 'old fashioned marriage'

The source suggested the Cambridges had managed to find the perfect balance when they carry out royal duties.

They added: 'People make much of William giving the big speeches, but Kate is there too, asking questions of presidents and their wives. These things are easier when they are side-by-side.'

The royal couple have had a busy year, most recently visiting Pakistan together for a four-day visit in October and spending the day celebrating their joint initiative Shout initiative in November.

At the Royal Variety Performance in November, body language expert Judi James suggested the couple looked like a bright-eyed couple on their first date.

The source suggested the duo make the perfect pairing, and that 'things are easier when they're side-by-side

BBC1's A Berry Royal Christmas, which aired earlier this week, showed Kate and William as a tight family unit, with Mary Berry describing them as a 'pigeon couple'.

'When they are together, he's constantly touching her arm and looking over at her smiling and she's the same with him. So natural,' she told Mail on Sunday's You Magazine.

A Berry Royal Christmas featured the Cambridges – along with the queen of British cookery herself – on four royal engagements to meet the people whose lives have been changed by the support of these charities.

It comes after the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge were praised by viewers of A Berry Royal Christmas for their down to earth relationship

Viewers praised the Cambridges for coming across as humble and down-to-earth, with one tweeting: 'Oh I just love William and Kate... so down to earth, so humble and wanting to help others less fortunate!! Good for you!!'

The Kate-Mary duo was hailed by fans - with some calling for them to have their own show - and viewers were left in stitches when the former Bake Off judge made an innuendo-filled quip while icing cakes, innocently asking the future queen if she'd like to 'have a squirt on a cake'.

It was sweet, quintessentially British moments like this, as well as Prince William making a 'strong cup of tea' for residents of a homeless shelter and jovially suggesting he dye his blue like one of them, that made the BBC Christmas special such a hit.

Many commentators have heaped praise on Kate this year, who they suggest has hit her stride with royal duties

As well as praising the royal couple's marriage, many commentators have suggested Kate has hit her stride with royal duties this year.

Last week, Judi revealed how Kate's calm and confident display at the Queen's Diplomatic Reception at Buckingham Palace was in stark contrast to her nervous appearance at her first state banquet in 2015.

Speaking to Femail, Judi James noted her open smile and relaxed hands marked the Duchess of Cambridge's growing ease with high importance royal functions, hinting at her role as future Queen.