A photo of a couple who died in a tornado in Alabama has been found on a farm almost 60 miles away - a day after devastating storm ripped through the Southeast killing four.

Justin Chase Godsey, 35, and Keisha LeAnn Cross Godsey, 34, were killed when the tornado struck their Town Creek home on Monday morning.

The couple's bodies were flung up to 300 yards from the intense storm, according to the Decatur Daily. Their elementary-school-age son remains hospitalized.

On Tuesday, Kent and Sherry Dutton, of Ardmore, found a damaged photo of the Godseys on their farmland - around 60 miles away from where the tornado struck. It captured a happier moment, with the Godseys posing together and smiling. The Duttons have reached out to the surviving members of the Godsey family to return the picture.

A photo of Keisha and Justin Godsey was found 60 miles away after they were killed in a tornado Monday in their Town Creek, Alabama

The Godseys, parents Keisha and Justin were killed from an EF2 tornado, while there 7-year-old Landen was critically injured

The couple were among four killed when tornadoes and winter storms battered the Southeast. Betty Patin, 59, died when an apparent tornado struck her home in Vernon Parish, Louisiana, said Chief Deputy Calvin Turner. While a fourth person was killed when heavy rain caused flooding in Greenup County, Kentucky.

The Godseys' son Landen, 7, was also injured in the storm and had to be airlifted to a hospital in Birmingham where's he's in intensive care. Neighbors rescued the boy from the nearby woods and took him to first responders, WAAY reported.

Keisha's teenage daughter, Ali, was not at home when the tornado touched down, AL.com reported.

Jimmy Graham knew the family.

'They would help do anything they could for the neighborhood,' he told WHNT. 'Take care of their kids, play football and sports and stuff and everything. They're good people.'

Workers clean up the area on County Road 265 in Alabama after a tornado killed a husband and wife, and seriously injured their young son

Brad Poynor surveys the damage as he waits for friends to arrive at his home in Guntown, Mississippi, on Tuesday in order to try and save as much as he can following Monday's tornado that ripped through Northeast Mississippi

'They were great people,' Mitch Hallmark, pastor at the Lawrence County Dream Center, told WHNT. 'We do a lot of outreach here at the church and they would donate things and help us and come from time to time. Just a good family.'

The tornado that killed the Godseys also damaged up to a dozen homes in their town, Lawrence County Sheriff Max Sanders said.

A GoFundMe page was created, with donations going to 'his brother Chris and his wife India to assist them in caring for the family in this difficult time.' The page has raised more than $21,000 for funeral expenses and medical costs for the injured child.

'This broke my heart. That baby lost his mommy and daddy. Life is so cruel. I'm so very sorry I can't do more,' One person commented.

The family is also getting support from the Lawrence County High School class of 2003, which has set up an account for donations at Bank Independent, Al.com said.

The National Weather Service has confirmed at least two dozen tornadoes across the Southeast this week. Twisters struck from western Louisiana to southern Georgia Monday and Tuesday, including 10 that hit in Mississippi.

Survey teams said the funnel clouds also made landfall nine times in Alabama.

This power line was brought down and surrounded by debris after the massive storm ripped through Alexandria, Louisiana on Monday afternoon

Jason Ford stands in his damaged mobile home on Highway 567, north of Liberty, Mississippi on Monday

Trucks are covered in debris from the TrimLine building after severe weather hit the area on John Allison Drive in Alexandria, Louisiana on Monday

Three people were injured, at least one of them seriously, by an apparent tornado that hit Amite County, Mississippi, Monday afternoon, county emergency director Grant McCurley said.

Some houses were destroyed and others severely damaged, he said. The damage was spread across the county on the southeast Louisiana state line, McCurley said.

Four counties eastward, seven women were taken to a hospital from a heavily damaged group home in Sumrall, Mississippi. Injuries were minor, Sheriff Danny Rigel told WJTV.

In Guntown, Mississippi, near Tupelo and about 260 miles north-northeast of Amite County, an apparent tornado destroyed a church and damaged dozens of homes.

Pastor Carl Estes searched through the debris of Lighthouse Baptist Church for books, photos or any other salvageable items, the Northeast Mississippi Daily Journal reported.

The storm flattened the building, which Estes said was empty at the time.

Church member Shane Keith told the newspaper he rushed there after the storm and found pews tossed around the hillside.

'I wanted to cry, I really did,' Keith said. 'I mean, I just got baptized last year and this means a lot to me, this place right here.'

December tornadoes aren't unusual. Monday was the 19th anniversary of a Southeastern tornado outbreak that produced a twister that killed 11 people in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.

Storms on December 1, 2018, spawned more than two dozen tornadoes in the Midwest.

It wasn't clear exactly how many twisters skipped across the region but the National Weather Service (NWS) tweeted more than 240 tornado warnings for the region over roughly 21 hours starting early Monday.

The NWS identified at least 14 tornadoes in Mississippi, Col Bryan Olier, chief of staff at the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency, told a news conference.

At least 25 counties were affected, 150 homes were reported damaged or destroyed and a about dozen were injured, he said, and the numbers are likely to grow.

'We had a storm front that went... from the southwest corner of the state to almost central - some 60 to 80 miles,' Gov Phil Bryant said.

The Storm Prediction Center logged at least three dozen reports of storm damage from east Texas to Georgia.

'The cat flew,' said Tonia Tyler of Pineville, Louisiana. 'It picked the cat up, and the cat flew - my cat - it flew across the yard. And I knew right there, I said "Oh God, we're not going to make it."'