A workman has died after the mechanical road sweeper lorry he was driving plunged into the River Thames at a popular tourist spot in Windsor, Berkshire.

The man, aged in his 50s, was rescued from the icy and fast-flowing river by passers-by and wrapped in warm clothing until the arrival of paramedics.

The tragedy happened on the banks of the Thames at Barry Avenue, Windsor, where visitors flock to the promenade to feed the swans. Police said that the victim was rushed to hospital but sadly died soon after arriving.

A workman has died after plunging into the River Thames while driving a road sweeper along this path beside the River Thames in Windsor, file photograph

It was understood that the road sweeper was clearing up leaves and storm debris from the Tarmac-covered promenade on Wednesday morning when he lost control of his lorry and it plunged over the edge and into the river.

It was not yet clear whether the man, who was from Wokingham, Berkshire, suffered a medical episode or just lost control of the vehicle as it travelled at 5mph along the normally pedestrian promenade.

A spokesman for Thames Valley Police said today: 'We are appealing for witnesses following a road traffic incident in which a man has sadly died.

'At around 9.15am yesterday a road-sweeping vehicle which was cleaning the pavements on the Promenade in Barry Avenue, Windsor, adjacent to the River Thames, has lost control and entered the water.

'The driver, who was the sole occupant of the vehicle, was rescued from the water. Paramedics treated the man, aged in his 50s and from Wokingham, at the scene and he was taken to hospital.

'However, sadly he was pronounced dead at hospital. His next of kin have been informed and our thoughts are with them at this difficult time. The death is being treated as unexplained but non-suspicious and a file is being prepared for the coroner.'

Sergeant Mark Gawthrop of the Joint Operations Road Policing Unit based at Taplow, said: 'Sadly following this incident a man has tragically died.

At this time we are making inquiries on behalf of the coroner but we are still appealing for witnesses to come forward.