Advertisement

Barack Obama has been pictured enjoying a round of golf in Hawaii on the same day his successor Donald Trump was impeached.

The former president appeared to not have a care in the world as he teed off in Oahu alongside old school friend Bobby Titcomb at the Mid-Pacific country Club.

Wearing a colorful purple shirt, cream shorts and a cap the Democrat looked to be in good spirits, smiling and waving as he made his way round the course.

Obama has made no comment since news first broke of Trump's impeachment. And his happy demeanor marked a stark contrast to events back in DC where Trump called his impeachment 'PRESIDENTIAL HARASSMENT!'.

Barack Obama has been pictured enjoying a round of golf on the same day his successor Donald Trump was impeached

The former president is understood to be in Oahu. He is pictured with a friend, believed to old school pal Bobby Titcomb

The former president appeared to not have a care in the world as he teed off in Oahu - unlike his successor in Washington

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell followed up by blasting Democrats for creating what he called an 'unfair, unfinished product,' articles of impeachment against Trump that stemmed from 'partisan rage.'

Trump was impeached for abuse of power and obstruction of Congress on Wednesday in the Democratic-controlled House, setting up a Senate trial, likely next month, on removing him from office.

Republicans hold a 53 to 47 seat edge in the Senate and McConnell said there could only be one outcome to a trial.

'The Senate must put this right,' the Republican senator from Kentucky said.

The Obamas regularly vacation on the island of Oahu, where Barack was born, frequenting the island's golf courses, dining out, hiking and going to the beach.

Barack and his wife Michelle are understood to have landed on the island on Monday on a private plane, Hawaii News Now reports.

The family are usually thought to stay at a home in Kailua during their vacations.

Wearing a colorful purple shirt, cream shorts and a cap the Democrat looked to be in good spirits, smiling and waving

Obama has made no comment since news first broke of Trump's impeachment. The Obamas regularly vacation on the island of Oahu, where Barack was born, frequenting the island's golf courses, dining out, hiking and going to the beach

Barack was seen riding the golf buggy with Titcomb who has known Obama long before he was famous.

They were classmates at Punahou School in Honolulu, which Obama has described as 'a prestigious prep school, an incubator for island elites.'

He was a year behind Obama at Punahou. Titcomb has worked as a commercial fisherman and an airline employee, according to the school's alumni magazine.

Obama said earlier this month that women would do an 'indisputably better' job running the world than men, and blamed many of the problems around the globe on old, male leaders who don't want to give up their power.

Barack and his wife Michelle are understood to have landed on the island on Monday on a private plane

The family are usually thought to stay at a home in Kailua during their vacations. Obama said earlier this month that women would do an 'indisputably better' job running the world than men, and blamed many of the problems around the globe on old, male leaders who don't want to give up their power

Trump was impeached for abuse of power and obstruction of Congress on Wednesday in the Democratic-controlled House, setting up a Senate trial, likely next month, on removing him from office. He is pictured during a Keep America Great Rally at Kellogg Arena on Wednesday

Speaking at a private leadership conference in Singapore shortly before his vacation, Obama said that while he was still in office, he would think of what the world would be like if it was run by a majority of women.

'Now women, I just want you to know, you are not perfect. But what I can say pretty indisputably is that you're better than us [men]', he said at the meeting.

Obama, who served as U.S. president from 2009 to 2017, and former first lady Michelle Obama have spent their time since leaving the White House creating a foundation that works to mentor young leaders on a global scale.