A young mother who was told her baby was unlikely to reach her first birthday is now preparing to celebrate Christmas at home with her 14-month-old daughter.

Chloe Conlin, 21, of Norwich, said she was advised more than 10 times to abort her baby but refused to give up on her.

Her daughter, Miyah, was born with a heart defect called right atrial isomerism, meaning she has half a heart, and underwent open-heart surgery on Christmas Eve last year.

Chloe Conlin, 21, was told her baby, Miyah, was unlikely to reach her first birthday and was advised more than 10 times to abort her daughter but refused to give up on her

Miyah was born at the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital and had open-heart surgery at Great Ormond Street Hospital in London on Christmas Eve last year

Miyah was born with a heart defect called right atrial isomerism, meaning she has half a heart, and underwent open-heart surgery on Christmas Eve last year

Miyah has since taken her first steps and is now preparing for her first Christmas outside hospital, her mother said.

Ms Conlin said: 'She's doing really well at the moment. She's started walking.

'They told me she wouldn't be reaching her milestones. She took her first steps about three weeks ago.

'She's running around now. She says 'Mum' and 'Dad' and she shakes her head, 'No', she says 'Ta'. She's learning a lot more, she's acknowledging a lot more as well.'

Ms Conlin said she previously had a stillbirth and learned of difficulties in her pregnancy with Miyah at 20 weeks.

'When I was pregnant they told me to have an abortion over 10 times because they said she wouldn't be compatible with life, it would be a real struggle and she probably wouldn't live until her first birthday,' she said.

Miyah has taken her first steps since undergoing surgery last year. Ms Conlin said it is 'palliative care' as surgeons can 'only help her live longer' and 'cannot fix' her heart

Miyah was born at the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital and had open-heart surgery at Great Ormond Street Hospital in London on Christmas Eve last year.

Ms Conlin said: 'She hasn't had any major hospital admissions since then. She's been doing really well.

'She's got another one coming up in the next couple of years and that will be her last surgery that they can do for her, then after that it will be to see how far she can actually go.

'They can't fix her heart, they can only help her live longer, so it's palliative care.'

What is right atrial isomerism? Right atrial isomerism is an abnormality in the heart layout. Children with the rare condition have multiple heart defects. They may also have septal defects, problems with the heart valve and abnormalities of the blood returning from the lungs to the heart. In nearly all cases, symptoms will appear at birth or a few days after. Symptoms include blue or purple tint to lips, nails and skin, difficulty breathing, difficulty feeding and lethargy. Nearly all patients will require a series of major heart surgeries, in which surgeons reconfigure the heart to work with one ventricle instead of two.

She said the date of Miyah's next operation depends on 'when she deteriorates', and that she will have check-ups at Great Ormond Street Hospital every four to six months.

She said it will be 'amazing to celebrate Christmas at home' and plans to spend it with family and 'a lot of presents to make up for last year'.

Ms Conlin was helped by The Sick Children's Trust while Miyah was undergoing major surgery at Great Ormond Street.

The charity arranged for her to stay in its 'Home from Home' accommodation, Guilford Street House, just a few minutes' walk from Miyah's hospital bedside, during her two-week admission.

Ms Conlin said it 'meant the world' to her to be with her daughter while she was in hospital.

The Sick Children's Trust runs 10 'Homes from Home' across the country, supporting families with children undergoing hospital treatment, which costs the charity £30 per family per night.

Chief executive Jane Featherstone said: 'Sadly, not every child will be snuggled up in bed at home on Christmas Eve, excitedly waiting for Father Christmas to deliver their presents.

'Hundreds of children across the country will be in hospital, and every one of them should be with their family at Christmas.

'Our Homes from Home mean that families won't have to worry about where they'll stay. They can spend Christmas together.'