Just when people think they've seen the worst of bridezilla behavior, another entitled soon-to-be-newlywed posts her own demands or expectations on the internet, leaving the jaws of on the floor.

One such bride-to-be posted on Reddit last week asking whether it would be OK to use an invitation to her wedding as a White Elephant gift at an upcoming Christmas party.

Even more outrageous, she wasn't worried that it would look tacky or self-involved, but rather that those who didn't score an invitation would feel left out.

Yikes! A bride-to-be posted on Reddit asking whether it would be OK to use an invitation to her wedding as a White Elephant gift at an upcoming Christmas party.

The bride, who posted anonymously, said she is getting married last year and just sent out invitations.

She and her future spouse have big families, and only invited a 'very small number of work friends.'

A lot of people from work fell on her 'B list,' meaning they didn't get an initial invite but might still score one — if the could gets a lot of 'no' RSBPS.

'Once we get "no" RSVPs from people out of town, we’ll replace those spots with work friends,' she said.

Las weekend, she was going to a Christmas party at someone’s home, and a lot of work friends would be there.

'There will be a White Elephant gift exchange,' she said. '[Would I be the a**hole] if I brought an invitation to my wedding as my white elephant gift?'

Her reasoning was that it would be 'a cute way to invite someone at an earlier stage.'

But she also worried it 'could highlight that some people haven’t been invited, make people feel like they have to beg and dance for an invite, and make people feel way worse if they don’t make the final cut.'

Unsurprisingly, she was ruthlessly mocked by commenters.

'I can’t wait to see this post show up in a wedding-shaming group. I seriously, seriously doubt that anyone who thinks people might “beg and dance” for an invitation to their wedding will throw a wedding that is in any way enjoyable to attend,' wrote one.

'Jesus Christ get over yourself. This whole post shrieks Bridezilla.'

'A I really hope this is a joke,' said another. 'This is the absolute tackiest thing I’ve heard in here.

'I’m not sure if you actually believe this but not everyone is as consumed with your upcoming wedding as you are. This REALLY REALLY comes across as self centered.

'If I got this as a gift from a coworker I’d be highly impressed that they were able to fit the invitation and their ego in the car on the way over.'

Some pointed out that her 'Christmas gift' would essentially be giving someone the opportunity to buy her a wedding gift.

'A wedding invitation isnt a gift, it's a commitment to buy clothes appropriate for the moment, a wedding gift, etc. Sounds a little self centered to use it as a gift,' wrote one.