She looks fabulous whatever she wears, with her slim figure and reliably perfect make-up.

But Celine Dion's latest outfit raised a few eyebrows, after her flamboyant statement shoes drew comparisons to a chicken.

'You've got chickens on your feet!' commented fans after she shared a picture of herself wearing the booties. They feature a fiery phoenix on the heel of the right shoe and are covered in feathers/flames crafted of what appears to be paper-like strips of leather.

Statement shoes! Celine Dion's fans tell her 'you've got chickens on your feet!' as she poses by Christmas tree in feathered booties

Not complimentary: A selection of the comments from Celine's Instagram

Others simply commented 'poulet,' a nod to the French Canadian's billingual background.

Named Courage like her new album, the shoes were designed by Toronto set designer Caitlin Doherty and commissioned by Scotiabank Arena, and are meant to be a wearable art piece paying tribute to Celine.

A press release explained: 'The symbolism... resembles themes both Céline Dion and a Phoenix have in common, transformation and rebirth.'

Celine is currently promoting her album Courage, which topped the Billboard charts it's first week of release at Thanksgiving, but has since dropped steeply.

In the image, Celine was seen posing in front of a tastefully decorated but modestly sized Christmas tree, while wearing a figure-hugging red sequin gown.

Statements: Named Courage like her new album, the shoes were designed by Toronto set designer Caitlin Doherty and commissioned by Scotiabank Arena, and are meant to be a wearable art piece paying tribute to Celine

'Is your Christmas tree decorated yet?' read the caption, credited to a member of Celine's team.

In the image she tagged her dancer dancer-turned creative director Pepe Munoz.

Earlier this year she defended Munoz, after he was accused by unnamed sources of 'isolating' the 51-year-old star.

'Pepe is like her boy toy who is really trying to take over. He's isolating her and people are feeling it. She's in love with this guy and listens to everything he's saying,' a Page Six source said of the hunk in July.

'It's crazy. She knows he's gay and is accepting of it. She needs someone close to her and she fell in love. He's turned into a René type.'

Hunk: She is now close to her backup dancer-turned-creative director Pepe Munoz, and she has denied rumors that he exacts undue control of her life

Celine fired up her Instagram page this summer and posted an open letter to Pepe from members of her team that insisted: 'These 'sources' have nothing better to do than to spread untrue gossip. Don't let it get you down... and keep up the great work we love you!'

The My Heart Will Go On singer met her late husband Rene Angélil in Canada when she was a 12-year-old aspiring singer and he was already 38, and he became her manager.

His dedication to nurturing her career reportedly drove him to mortgage his home so that he could provide funding for her 1981 debut album La Voix du bon Dieu.

The way they were: Courage is her first English studio album of new material since the death of her husband Rene Angelil, who had also been her manager since she was a child

Rene and Celine officially began dating in 1987 - when she was 19 years old and he 45 - and by 1991 they were engaged.

It was only in 1993, however, that she publicized their romance, slipping the announcement into the liner notes of her album The Colour of My Love.

In December 1994 they married in Montreal's Notre-Dame Basilica, which became the venue for the eldest of their three sons, Rene-Charles', christening and sadly also Rene's funeral.

Rene died at 73 of a heart attack while suffering from terminal throat cancer in January 2016 - and two days later, Celine lost her brother Daniel to throat cancer.



