Gwyneth Paltrow has been enjoying the holidays in Aspen with her whole brood (including ex Chris Martin and his girlfriend Dakota Johnson).

But the lifestyle guru still tended to some business as she escaped to the mountains of Colorado.

She was spotted Sunday bundled up in fur as she made a visit to the local Goop store with husband Brad Falchuk and daughter Apple.

Christmas in Aspen: Gwyneth Paltrow was spotted Sunday bundled up in fur as she made a visit to the local Goop store in Aspen with husband Brad Falchuk and daughter Apple

The 47-year-old kept warm in a fur jacket, trimmed in a red and yellow floral embroidery.

She paired the fuzzy coat with a black turtleneck and a pair of matching black trousers.

The look was completed with a pair of plastic tortoiseshell aviator sunglasses and black rubber boots.

She left the shop with Falchuk, 48, who sported a camouflage vest over a black sweater with a cream stetson and purple corduroy pants.

Fur look: The 47-year-old kept warm in a fur jacket, trimmed in a red and yellow floral embroidery

Chic in black: She paired the fuzzy coat with a black turtleneck and a pair of matching black trousers

Snow boots: The look was completed with a pair of plastic tortoiseshell aviator sunglasses and black rubber boots

Funky display: She left the shop with Falchuk, 48, who sported a camouflage vest over a black sweater with a cream stetson and purple corduroy pants

Spitting image: Apple, 15, donned a puffy black and white houndstooth jacket with a black beanie, black t-shirt and grey sweatpants

Apple, 15, donned a puffy black and white houndstooth jacket with a black beanie, black t-shirt and grey sweatpants.

Not present for the family outing was son Moses, 13, whom she shares (as well as Apple) with Martin, 42.

The ex-husband is also enjoying the holidays in Aspen, along with girlfriend Johnson, 30.

Paltrow was actually spotted joining them the day before on the slopes with Apple and Moses.

She and Martin were married from 2003 to 2016 before their 'conscious uncoupling' and subsequent amicable co-parenting.

Gang's all here: Ex-husband Chris Martin is also enjoying the holidays in Aspen with girlfriend Dakota Johnson