A woman was found with her 'head almost severed' after being murdered at her large Surrey home.

Police were scrambled to the detached property in Woking just after midday yesterday where she was found with horrific knife injuries.

Neighbours claim she was found in a pool of blood with her throat slashed.

A large police presence in Woking, Surrey, yesterday after officers were called to the incident

Police were scrambled to the detached property in Woking just after midday yesterday

She was pronounced dead at the scene and two men, who were known to the woman, were arrested and remain in custody.

Last night the large detached house, with solar panels in the roof and a double garage, was sealed off by police as forensic science specialists combed the rooms for evidence.

The victim's body was left at the scene for a pathologist to examine and was expected to be removed later to the mortuary.

A neighbour described her as a 'lovely, bright lady' and said she was living with her husband when she was murdered.

A spokesman for Surrey Police confirmed that two men 'known to the victim' had been arrested on suspicion of murder.

The woman was found with knife injuries in Woking yesterday, prompting an investigation

The woman was pronounced dead at the scene and two men were arrested yesterday

'Officers were called to an address in Woking at 12.21pm following a concern for safety of a woman. On arrival a woman was found dead inside the property.

'Two men, known to the deceased, have been arrested on suspicion of murder and are currently in custody. A knife was recovered from the scene.'

Inspector Andy Greaves, from Woking Police, said: 'A number of resources attended a quiet area of Woking following a serious incident within a home address.

'This investigation is in its early stages and it would be wrong to speculate on exactly what's happened, however what I am able to share is that this is an isolated incident which poses no risk to the wider public following the arrests made at the scene.'