They are two of the top action men in the world.

And Jason Statham and Scott Eastwood looked more than ready for their next project.

The 52-year-old British actor and 33-year-old hunky American were recently seen on the Los Angeles set of their new Guy Ritchie flick, which is titled Cash Truck.

Action men: Jason Statham and Scott Eastwood were recently seen on the Los Angeles set of their new Guy Ritchie flick, which is titled Cash Truck

Jason definitely seemed to be hard at work as he appeared to have sweat through his beige bomber jacket as there were dark spots throughout the chest area.

He completed the look with a plain white T-shirt, skinny black jeans and beige suede dress shoes.

At one point he was seen walking on set next to 51-year-old filmmaker Ritchie.

Making moves: Jason, 52, definitely seemed to be hard at work as he appeared to have sweat through his beige bomber jacket as there were dark spots throughout the chest area

Bond: At one point he was seen walking on set next to 51-year-old filmmaker Ritchie

Hanging out: Jason was also seen chatting with co-stars Holt McCallany and Jeffrey Donovan

No doubt the two have a good working relationship as they worked on 2000 hit Snatch together.

Meanwhile Scott looked ready for action as he donned a black riot squad outfit including padded plastic armor at the chest shoulders, arms and thighs.

His brown hair was combed to the side as he accentuated his chiseled jaw with a significant amount of scruff.

The upcoming film is centered around a cold and mysterious character named H - played by Statham - who works at a cash tuck company responsible for moving hundreds of millions of dollars around LA.

Always wear protection: Meanwhile Scott, 33, looked ready for action as he donned a black riot squad outfit including padded plastic armor at the chest shoulders, arms and thighs

The film features a star-studded cast including Josh Hartnett, Hold McClanney, Laz Alonso, Jason Wong, Jeffery Donovan, Niamh Algar, and Josh Cowdery.

The film screenplay was written by Ritchie who adapted it from 2004 French Film "Le Convoyeur which was written by Nicolas Boukhrief.

Cash Truck still has no announced release date as it is being produced by Miramax and will be distributed domestically by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.