An Internal Revenue Service agent from Boston who is on trial for allegedly raping a 21-year-old intern after handcuffing her and shoving his service gun down her throat testified that the sexual encounter was 'consensual' and 'playful'.

James Clarke, 45, a married father-of-three, faces charges of aggravated rape, rape, strangulation, indecent assault and battery, and assault and battery with a dangerous weapon in connection to an incident that took place in July 2017.

Prosecutors say Clarke invited the victim for drinks on the last day of her unpaid internship on the evening of July 26.

Scroll down for video

IRS agent James Clarke, 45, who is accused of raping an intern, listens as opening statements are made in his jury trial at Suffolk Superior Court in Boston on December 12

Prosecutors say Clarke, shoved his work-issued Glock (pictured) into the victim's mouth after handcuffing her in his car after a July 2017 outing

They met at Kinsale, an Irish pub located just across the street from the IRS offices in the JFK Federal Building in downtown, and Clarke proceeded to order five or six cocktails for the woman.

After the outing, Clarke offered to give the intern a ride to the train station, but while the two were in his car, prosecutors say the IRS agent restrained the woman's hands, inserted his gun into her mouth and raped her.

He allegedly raped the victim a second time after dropping her off at the train station.

In his opening statement last week, Clarke’s defense attorney, Robert Sheketoff, did not deny that his client had a sexual encounter with his accuser, but he argued that it was consensual.

Taking the stand in his own defense on Wednesday, Clarke insisted that the woman flirted with him over drinks and told him she had wanted to have sex with him form the moment she saw him, even though she knew he was married, reported The Boston Globe.

They met at Kinsale, an Irish pub located just across the street from the IRS offices in the JFK Federal Building in downtown on the last day of the woman's internship

The victim said Clarke later offered to drop her off at this train station in Boston

Once they got to his car, Clarke admitted to digitally penetrating the woman while she was handcuffed and placing his work-issued Glock in her mouth, which he said she then used to simulate oral sex.

'It was playful, it was meant to be sexual,' the government employee told the court. 'The gun was a prop in role play. It was not degrading. It was not violent. It was not threatening.'

Clarke's accuser testified on Monday, telling jurors that when Clarke invited her to the bar, she assumed they would be joined by other colleagues and was surprised only to see him there.

When Clarke's defense attorney suggested that it was the intern's intention to have sex with his client, the woman pushed back.

'Nobody expects to have a gun stuck down their throat and be handcuffed and raped,' she said, according to Boston 25 News. 'That’s not what I would define as hooking up.'

The woman called 911 as soon as Clarke dropped her off at the train station and reported being sexually assaulted.

On Monday, prosecutors played a recording of the victim's 911 call in court.

'He shoved a gun down my throat and started saying a bunch of things,' she told the dispatcher. 'I was afraid if I didn’t go along with it I would be killed.'

Clarke was placed on leave at the IRS (pictured) only in March 2018, more than seven months after the alleged rape

The woman was taken to Massachusetts General Hospital, where police detectives later arrived to take her statement and document her injuries.

Detective James Morrissey showed jurors photographs taken at the hospital, which showed red marks around the woman's neck and on her wrists.

An examination indicated that she had bruising to the back of her throat, according to the prosecution.

Clark was interviewed by police the following day, but not arrested.

As an IRS agent, Clarke investigated financial crimes, including money laundering, identity theft, and tax evasion.

At the time of the alleged rape, he was assigned to a task force with the Drug Enforcement Administration.

After news of the alleged rape was reported in November 2017, the DEA removed him from the task force, and he was put on leave at the IRS the following March.