A man has been imprisoned for burning an LGBTQ flag that was flying at a church in central Iowa.

Adolfo Martinez, 30, of Ames, was sentenced Wednesday to 15 years for the hate crime of arson.

He was also given a year for reckless use of explosives or fire and 30 days for harassment. The sentences are to be served consecutively, Story County court records said.

Adolfo Martinez, 30, was jailed for 15 years for the hate crime of arson after he took down and burned an LGBTQ flag that was flying at an Iowa church

He was found guilty of a hate crime, which is a class D felony, third-degree harassment, and reckless use of fire last month.

Police allege he stole the flag that hung at Ames United Church of Christ at 217 6th St. It was found burning on June 11 outside Dangerous Curves Gentleman’s Club, 111 5th St, Des Moines Register reported.

Martinez told police he had ripped the flag down and had set it ablaze with lighter fluid because he is against homosexuality.

Police allege he stole the flag that hung at Ames United Church of Christ at 217 6th St last June

The flag was found burning on June 11 outside Dangerous Curves Gentleman’s Club, 111 5th St, Des Moines Register reported

Martinzez gave an incoherent interview to KCCI Des Moines in November in which he claimed he was guilty of the charges.

He declined to give his side of the story and said: 'It is my honor, it is written, it is a judgement and it is written to execute vengeance on the heathen and punishments upon the people.

'It is my honor to do so, and it is an honor to that. It is a blessing from the Lord, plain and simple.

Martinzez gave an incoherent interview to KCCI Des Moines in November in which he claimed he was guilty of the charges

Martinez admitted to a reporter that the incident was about homosexuality and he had no regrets

'It was an honor to do that, it's a blessing from the Lord to be able to stand for his word firmly against all odds plain and simple.

'I wish no harm upon any individual however if you guys are going to bring and forth and address it in such a manner than by all means necessary bring it forth bro, I have God on my side.'

He admitted to a reporter that the incident was about homosexuality and claimed he had no regrets.

Asked if he planned to fight the charges he replied: 'No, I'm guilty, I'm guilty as charged, I say it live. Knowingly, willingly and intentionally did I do that.

He added: 'I burned down their pride, plain and simple.' He further claimed that 'even non-believers' would agree on this matter. I don't need weapons, I have the spirit of god on my side Bro.'