Advertisement

Round-the-world cruises allow holidaymakers to see the planet in opulent surrounds - and at a sedate pace.

But for those who want to see the four corners of the earth rapidly, there's always the option of 'cruising' by private jet - and some of them are truly spectacular.

Here we reveal a handful of options for globe-trotting multi-millionaires, from the Four Seasons Dom Pérignon-stocked customised Boeing 757 to Crystal Cruises' five-star hotel in the sky...

Four Seasons - $169,000 (£129,000) per person for the Remote Wonders trip

Luxury hotel chain Four Seasons has recreated its famed experience in the sky by offering round-the-world trips in its very own private jet, a Boeing 757

The aircraft has an all-white interior and 52 leather flat-bed seats, created by Italian company Iacobucci, as well as uniformed cabin crew

The Four Seasons jet exclusively stocks Dom Pérignon Champagne. Next year it is taking guests on a trip called International Intrigue, which starts in Seattle and ends in Paris. Other stops include Kyoto, Hoi An and Budapest

A rendering of the new Four Seasons private jet, which will take flight in 2021. The long-range Airbus A321LR will have a spacious new lounge area, pictured

Luxury hotel chain Four Seasons has recreated its famed experience in the sky by offering round-the-world trips in its very own private jet.

Its Boeing 757 has an all-white interior and 52 leather flat-bed seats, created by Italian company Iacobucci, as well as uniformed cabin crew.

The private jet also includes its own executive and sous in-flight chefs and exclusively stocks Dom Pérignon Champagne.

One itinerary passengers can book on is called Remote Wonders, which starts in Dubai on December 3, 2020, and ends back in Dubai on January 20, 2021. Other stops on the trip are Hoi An, Angkor Wat, Bangkok, Chiang Mai, Seychelles, Rwanda and the Serengeti. It costs $169,000 (£129,000) per person based on double occupancy.

What's more, Four Seasons announced earlier this year that it would be upgrading its private jet service with a brand new aircraft - a long-range Airbus A321LR.

The jet, with 48 seats, will take flight in early 2021 with Four Seasons promising that the plane will 'evoke the bygone glamour of air travel' thanks to its hand-crafted leather seats and in-flight workshops. The new jet will have the tallest and widest cabin in its class, with a key feature being a spacious new lounge area.

Abercrombie & Kent - £120,000 ($157,000) per person for the Wildlife Safari: Around the World by Private Jet trip

Luxury travel company Abercrombie & Kent uses a privately chartered Boeing 757 to whisk guests around the world on tours

The aircraft has 50 custom-designed Italian leather seats equipped with a personal massage system, four-way adjustable headrests and lumbar support

The seats onboard the aircraft open out into fully lie-flat beds that are 6ft 5in long with a 79-inch pitch

Next year, the jet will be used on a 25-day trip called Wildlife Safari: Around the World by Private Jet. It starts in Japan and ends in Kenya and also takes in the Philippines, India and Rwanda

Luxury travel company Abercrombie & Kent says it is the global pioneer of private jet tours as it introduced the first Royal Air Tour in 1989 aboard a Lockheed L-1011 Tristar aircraft.

Today the firm uses a privately chartered Boeing 757, which has 50 custom-designed Italian leather seats equipped with a personal massage system, four-way adjustable headrests and lumbar support. They also open out into to fully lie-flat beds, which are 6ft 5in long with a 79-inch pitch.

Guests can also enjoy a fully stocked, open bar featuring top-shelf wine and spirits in addition to a 'first-class meal service with personalized espresso drinks'.

There is a dedicated cabin crew with a crew-to-guest ratio of 1:6 and amenities onboard include noise-cancelling headphones and a 'curated entertainment selected to complement the itinerary'.

Next year, the jet will be used on a 25-day trip called Wildlife Safari: Around the World by Private Jet, which Abercrombie & Kent promises will feature 'epic encounters with rare wildlife' such as whales, honey bears, lemurs and Bengal tigers.

The trip, which costs £120,000 ($157,000) per person, starts in Japan, where guests can spot snow monkeys. It ends on February 2, 2020, in Kenya, where passengers track down the big five. Other destinations on the trip are the Philippines, Malaysia, India, Madagascar and Rwanda.

Crystal Cruises - $60,000 (£46,000) an hour to charter

Crystal Cruises has a Boeing 777-200LR private jet called Crystal Skye, pictured. It accommodates 88 passengers and costs $60,000 (£46,000) per hour to charter

The jet boasts a spacious dining area, a mixologist to make cocktails and seats that convert into spacious beds

Passengers onboard Crystal Skye are lavished with top-notch treatment thanks to on-board butlers

Rather than offering specific itineraries, Crystal Skye is available for charter so passengers can customise their own schedules

Not only can you travel by boat with Crystal Cruises, you can also take a ride in its luxurious Boeing 777-200LR.

If you are exceedingly wealthy.

The jet, called Crystal Skye, accommodates 88 passengers and boasts a spacious dining area, a mixologist and seats that convert into spacious beds. The cuisine is prepared by an executive chef in two state-of-the-art galleys.

Along with five-star interiors and menus inspired by Michelin-star restaurants, passengers are also lavished with top-notch treatment thanks to on-board butlers.

In the roomy bathrooms, guests can freshen up with a range of fragrant products from the luxury Italian fashion house Etro.

Other highlights include a bar (stocked with an array of fine wines), large flat-screen televisions, free global Wi-Fi and personal Bose noise-cancelling headphones.

Rather than offering specific itineraries, the jet is available for charter so passengers can customise their own schedules. The cost of chartering the jet is $60,000 (£46,000) per hour.

Aman Private Jet - price available on request

Aman's Bombardier Global 5000 can seat a maximum of 12 passengers and is available for charter

The jet can reach top speeds of 574mph and has a range of 6,000 miles. Aman says that each booking is fully customisable and itineraries onboard the jet can be flexible

Guests can choose their in-flight meals ahead of their journey and will have access to their luggage throughout their flight, as well as constant, high-speed Wi-Fi connectivity, it's claimed

Unique touches offered on board the Aman private jet include a tea ceremony and amenities from the brand’s range of Aman Skincare products

Just launched last month is a private jet by luxury hotel group Aman, which is available for charter.

The jet is a Bombardier Global 5000 that can seat a maximum of 12 passengers, reach top speeds of 574mph and has a range of 6,000 miles.

Aman says that guests can choose their in-flight meals ahead of their journey and will have access to their luggage throughout their flight, as well as constant, high-speed Wi-Fi connectivity.

Unique touches onboard include a tea ceremony and amenities from the brand’s Aman Skincare range.

Aman offers four itineraries - the Secrets of China, which takes in the rural peace of Hangzhou’s West Lake and the thousand-year-old history of Lijiang; From the Himalayas to the Sea, which has stops in both Bhutan and Thailand; Bali & Beyond, which offers passengers the chance to explore up to five Aman properties on the island as well as in the rest of Indonesia, and Indochina Past & Present, which stops off in Laos, Cambodia and Vietnam.

It's also possible to book a bespoke trip.

TCS World Travel - $103,455 (£80,000) per person for the Best of Africa trip

Tour operator TCS World Travel runs round-the-world trips on four private jets

One trip being offered by TCS World Travel is the Best of Africa itinerary, which costs $103,455 (£80,000) per person and begins on December 29 for 20 days

Tour operator TCS World Travel runs round-the-world trips on four private jets.

One of the jets is a custom-configured Boeing 757, which has 52 first-class flatbed seats that all have power outlets and USB ports.

Passengers have personal ottomans to store their luggage, mid-height rear privacy screens and access to Wi-Fi where available.

The jet also boasts custom mood lighting, spacious overhead bins and on-demand in-flight entertainment.

One trip being offered onboard this aircraft is the Best of Africa itinerary, which costs $103,455 (£80,000) per person and begins on December 29 for 20 days.

According to TCS World Travel, passengers will get to explore the 'jungles of Rwanda, the vineyards of South Africa and the vast plains of the Serengeti'. Calling points include Cape Town, Swakopmund in Namibia, Victoria Falls and Madagascar.