Christmas is only six days away.

And Ariel Winter was spotted doing some seasonal shopping at a mall in Sherman Oaks, in the San Fernando Valley region of Los Angeles on Wednesday.

The Modern Family star jollied up the trip by wearing a pink sweatshirt with the words Santa Baby on the front, which is the title of Eartha Kitt's famously naughty Christmas song from 1953.

She's in the pink: Ariel Winter wears a rose-colored sweatshirt with Santa Baby on the front as she goes Christmas shopping at Bloomingdale's in Sherman Oaks, Los Angeles

Ariel, 21, teamed it with black leggings and white sneakers after her Hot Yoga class

The actress, who had hit up Bloomingdale's, carried two big brown bags back to her car plus a new juicer, all of which she stowed neatly in the rear of her SUV.

She appeared to be on a solo run as there was no sign of her new beau, Dumplin' actor Luke Benward, 24.

Although they have yet to declare their love publicly they have been seen getting up close and personal for the past month.

Packing her sleigh..errr SUV: The Modern Family star, 21, carried two big brown bags and a new juicer, all of which she stowed neatly in the rear of her SUV

Getting some exercise: The Modern Family star was first spotted filling a parking meter as she went to a Hot Yoga class in the neighborhood

With her new beau: Ariel with boyfriend Luke Benward, right, and Alexander Morales at an event in West Hollywood on December 5

Ariel and Luke were recently spotted getting cozy in West Hollywood at popular hot spot, Delilah.

The pair cuddled as they waited for the valet to bring their car.

It comes after she ended her nearly three year relationship with Levi Meaden, 31.

Naughty, naughty: Ariel's old beau, Levi Meaden, couldn't keep his hands off her at the Humane Dog Awards in September 2018. They called it quits this year

They began dating in November 2016 and it wasn't long before Levi moved in with her.

However, she had not been spotted with the Breaking In actor since August and Levi was spotted moving his belongings out of her home earlier this month.

Meanwhile, Ariel has yet to reveal what the future holds for her in terms of work when Modern Family wraps next year after 11 seasons on ABC.