A ten-year-old boy died Wednesday after he slipped off an icy diving board and into a frozen pool at a park in Missouri where temperatures were 32F.

On Tuesday, officers from the Calverton Park Police Department and the Ferguson Police Department responded to a 911 call about an 'unresponsive' child around 1pm.

The child had fallen into a pool that was seven-feet deep at the January-Wabash Park in Ferguson, police said.

When two officers arrived to the scene, they entered the water to rescue the boy.

Scroll down for video

On Tuesday, officers from the Calverton Park Police Department and the Ferguson Police Department (pictured at the scene) responded to a 911 call about an 'unresponsive' child at the January-Wabash Park around 1pm

A 10-year-old boy had fallen into a pool (pictured) that was seven-feet deep. When two officers arrived to the scene, they entered the water to rescue the boy

The officers immediately began administering CPR on the boy who was then rushed to the DePaul Hospital in Bridgeton.

Both officers were also taken to the hospital and treated for hypothermia. They have since been released.

In a joint statement, the departments said the boy died Wednesday morning.

'It is with a heavy heart that we are reporting that the child from the water rescue yesterday has passed away,' officers wrote.

'We would like to express our heartfelt condolences to the family & friends on the loss of their loved one, you all are in our thoughts and prayers,' the statement reads.

According to Fox 2, the boy was with family members at the park when he and his brother reportedly jumped over the fence surrounding the pool area.

The officers (pictured at scene) immediately began administering CPR on the boy who was then rushed to the DePaul Hospital in Bridgeton

But the boy died on Wednesday morning, according to a statement from police. A witness said the boy and his brother jumped a fence surrounding the pool before the accident

The victim slipped off the icy diving board and fell into the pool. He was in the water for an estimated 20 minutes before he was rescued.

Authorities have not released the victim's name.

At the time of the incident, the temperature was about 32F. The water's temperature was about 30F.

According to the National Weather Service, about five inches of snow fell in the area two days before the boy died.

Authorities said they are reviewing surveillance video to see how the boys were able to get inside.