Ancient black holes may have grown to become the supermassive objects they are today by dining on reservoirs of gas and dust 12.5 billion years ago, astronomers say.

A team of international researchers using the Very Large Telescope in Chile captured images of the 'black hole food' surrounding quasars at the heart of early galaxies.

The team say these supplies allowed the cosmic monsters to grow rapidly at a time when the universe was still very young.

They believe their findings add 'a fundamental piece to the puzzle' on how the earliest cosmic structures such as galaxy clusters and voids, formed.

Ancient black holes may have grown to become the supermassive objects they are today by dining on reservoirs of gas and dust 12.5 billion years ago, astronomers say. This illustration depicts a gas halo surrounding a quasar in the early Universe

'The presence of these 'monsters' in the early universe is a mystery', said Dr Emanuele Paolo Farina, of the Max Planck Institute for Astronomy in Germany,

The supermassive black holes are several billion times the mass of our Sun and until now it was thought there wasn't enough material around them to fuel their growth.

They might have formed from the collapse of the first stars and must have grown very fast, says Dr Farina.

The ‘black hole food’ of cool gas and dust had not been found by astronomers in large enough quantities to explain this rapid growth.

'We are now able to demonstrate, for the first time, that primordial galaxies do have enough food to sustain growing black holes and vigorous star formation.'

The astronomers used the European Southern Observatory's Very Large Telescope, including an on-board instrument known as Muse, to gather data on the black holes.

They surveyed 31 quasars - extremely bright nuclei in active galaxies.

The astronomers found 12 of those quasars were surrounded by enormous reservoirs made up of cool, dense hydrogen gas.

These gas halos were tightly bound to the galaxies which, according to the researchers, provided 'the perfect food source' to sustain the growth of supermassive black holes.

A team of international researchers using the Very Large Telescope in Chile captured images of the 'black hole food' surrounding quasars at the heart of early galaxies. This image shows one of the gas halos newly observed with the MUSE instrument on ESO's Very Large Telescope superimposed to an older image of a galaxy merger obtained with another telescope

The research was possible thanks to the Multi Unit Spectroscopic Explorer instrument, which Dr Farina says was 'a game changer' in the study of quasars.

'In a few hours per target, we were able to delve into the surroundings of the most massive and voracious black holes present in the young universe', said Dr Farina.

'Quasars are bright but the gas reservoirs around them are much harder to observe.

'Muse could detect the faint glow of the hydrogen gas in the halos, allowing astronomers to finally reveal the food stashes that power supermassive black holes in the early universe.'

The next generation Extremely Large Telescope, which goes online in 2025, will allow scientists to reveal more details about galaxies and supermassive black holes.

“With the power of the ELT, we will be able to delve even deeper into the early Universe to find many more such gas nebulae,” says Dr Farina.

The research has been published in the Astrophysical Journal.