Advertisement

Supermodel Alessandra Ambrosio has taken to Instagram to promote her bikini line.

This Brazilian bombshell - who modeled for Victoria's Secret for many years - was seen in a little two piece in a gunmetal grey color from her very own swimwear line, GAL Floripa, which she launched earlier this year. The mother-of-two has been on a stunning beach vacation in the tropics with her family.

The star has made a habit of promoting the line herself on social media, which is a formula fellow supermodel Emily Ratajkowski (for her line Inamorata) and reality TV star Kim Kardashian (for SKIMS and KKW Beauty + Fragrance) have also done.

What a gal! Supermodel Alessandra Ambrosio has taken to Instagram to promote her bikini line. This Brazilian bombshell - who modeled for Victoria's Secret for many years - was seen in a little two piece in a gunmetal grey color from her very own swimwear line, GAL Floripa

The star launched the fun collection with her sister Aline and one of her best friends.

Alessandra has on a flirty suit that hugs her curves just right while showing off a peek of cleavage thanks to a low neckline and a plunging front.

The suit comes up high on the hips making the model's legs look longer.

In earlier photos she was seen in a black two-piece suit with a light purple scarf on her head.

Alessandra worked with her sister Aline Ambrosio and best friend Gisele Cória on the line; they are manufacturing the products in Brazil.

Good move: The star has made a habit of promoting the line herself on social media, which is a formula fellow supermodel Emily Ratajkowski (for her line Inamorata) and reality TV star Kim Kardashian (for SKIMS and KKW Beauty + Fragrance) have also done

'We always had this dream. We grew up in Florianopolis, which is an island south of Brazil, and swim was always like our second skin,' the model told People.

'We were always in a swimsuit going from one beach to another and always wanted to have a bikini shop there one day.

'That was our dream when we were 18.'

And it's for all shapes: 'Everyone should feel good wearing a swimsuit because it shows your body,' she said. 'You shouldn't be self-conscious about it. We all have different shapes and need to embrace that. We need to love who we are because that's all we have anyway. If we don't love who we are, who are we going to love?'

She also said it's important to be happy in your suit.

Changing it up: In earlier photos she was seen in a black two-piece suit with a purple and printed scarf on her head

Creative: Alessandra worked with her sister Aline Ambrosio and best friend Gisele Cória on the line; they are manufacturing the products in Brazil

'We work all year long to take those vacations and we take those vacations and we go somewhere nice and warm and we need to feel as good as it gets.'

The name of their brand is a combination of the letters in their names (Gisele+ALessandra+ALine) and a tribute to their favorite beach spot they told the site.

Their Galactic Sun collection features one-piece and two-piece swimsuits.

There is a '70s-inspired 'out of this world' feel.

Back story: 'We always had this dream. We grew up in Florianopolis, which is an island south of Brazil, and swim was always like our second skin,' the model told People . 'We were always in a swimsuit going from one beach to another and always wanted to have a bikini shop there one day'

Her little ones: She was recently on the cover of Madame Figaro with her two kids, Anja, aged 11, and Noah, aged seven

Alessandra's last swimwear line is Ale by Alessandra.

'It was so much fun to create the collection. We chose our favorite cuts for the swimwear and from there chose colors and fabrics,' said Alessandra.

'We chose comfortable fabrics that had a little bit of shimmer and they're a little bit iridescent,' she said.

'We have four different types of bottoms and five different types of tops that you can kind of mix and match and just whatever makes your body feel comfortable and gives the nice shape that you're looking for'.

And she revealed the inspiration for the name of the swim line. 'I was like re-watching one of my favorite movies, Bernardo Bertolucci's Stealing Beauty, and this song came up [on the soundtrack]. And there's this part where it says "the galactic sun" and I was like "Oh my God!" So I called them – it was super late – and I was like "I got the name for the collection!" And they were so excited and loved it,' she said.

Prices ranging from $88 to 228.