Dimitar Berbatov believes Manchester United will be making a mistake if they sign Erling Haaland in January.

United have been linked with the 19-year-old for much of the season and on Wednesday Ole Gunnar Solskjaer admitted his interest in the youngster.

But, despite Haaland scoring 28 goals in 22 games already this season, Berbatov has urged his former club to rethink a potential move for the striker.

Dimitar Berbatov says Man United would be making a mistake by signing Erling Haaland

Haaland has been strongly linked with United after scoring 28 goals in 22 games this season

United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer admitted on Wednesday that he's an admirer of Haaland

'There are a lot of rumours about Haaland joining next month, but honestly at the moment, with the three upfront that United have, I don't see where Haaland will fit in the team,' he told Betfair.

'When you buy someone what does it say about your current strikers who, in United's case, are all young players? I think if it happens it will bring some unnecessary tension at the moment.

'For me Rashford, Martial, James and Greenwood are great, great players. But also the question is, what happens if one or two of them get injured and you don't have a replacement on the bench, so this is a tricky situation.'

Berbatov says United are well stocked in attack and should persist with current front three

While United have performed well against the Premier League's biggest clubs, they continue to struggle to break down lesser opponents.

Critics have pointed to a lack of creativity in Solskjaer's midfield but Berbatov is confident the return of Paul Pogba from injury will solve those problems.

'He is a player that can really find that final pass when the game isn't quite going too well and that's why I would like to see Pogba back on the pitch as soon as possible because it has been a while now,' he added.

'For me, I would like to see Pogba stay at United, he can give so much more to the team, many others may not agree but he is a player who is always one or two steps ahead, he has that pass and has an incredible shot on him, so I hope he comes back stronger.'

Berbatov is also confident the return of Paul Pogba from injury will boost United's creativity

United have been linked with a number of January signings but Berbatov believes they should be careful and avoid making unnecessary signings.

'Normally when the transfer window comes round there is talk about positions and areas where teams need to strengthen, but honestly at the moment I think of anywhere that they need to strengthen,' he added.

'They have a good defence, in midfield McTominay is getting up the ranks and finding his place in the team, Pogba will be back soon, Fred is getting better and better with every game and upfront the three of Martial, Rashford and James are unbelievable.

'I don't think they should go for anyone in January.'