U.S. stocks moved higher in midday trading Thursday following encouraging profit reports from several big companies and showing little concern over President Donald Trump's impeachment.

Trading around the world was mostly listless, as markets took a pause after a run higher in recent weeks.

Stocks, bonds, gold and a gauge measuring fear among traders on Wall Street all made only slight moves, if any, in the first day of trading after Trump´s impeachment by the House of Representatives Tuesday night.

Trump had warned months ago that his impeachment would roil markets, but traders say it has virtually no impact.

That´s mostly because they see it as extremely unlikely that Trump or his market-friendly policies will leave office before the end of his term.

President Donald Trump was impeached Wednesday night by the House of Representatives, yet stocks were not unnerved on Thursday. On Thursday, the S&P 500 was up by about 0.3% in mid-day trading

The S&P also has risen nearly 7 per cent since the impeachment process began on September 24. If it stays at the 3,201 level, it would be the sixth gain in the last seven days and another record high for the index

If the market's lack of reaction sounds familiar, that's because stocks also rallied after President Clinton was impeached for lying to Congress about his sexual relationship with White House intern Monica Lewinsky.

Since Trump's impeachment process began on September 24, the S&P has risen nearly 7 per cent.

By comparison, stocks fell 13 per cent when Richard Nixon ran into his own impeachment woes over the Watergate scandal, reports CNBC.

President Donald Trump warned months ago that his impeachment would roil markets, but traders say it has virtually no impact, with stocks up 7 percent since the inquiry began

If the market's lack of reaction sounds familiar, that's because stocks also rallied after President Bill Clinton was impeached for lying to Congress about his sexual relationship with White House intern Monica Lewinsky.

On Thursday, as of noon Eastern time, the S&P 500 was up 0.3%.

If it stays at the 3,201 level, it would be the sixth gain in the last seven days and another record high for the index.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average also rose to 107 points, or 0.4%, to 28,347, and the Nasdaq composite was up 0.5%.

The Russell 2000 index of small-cap stocks was up 0.2%. More stocks rose on the New York Stock Exchange than fell.

Trump became just the third U.S. president to be impeached after the House voted Wednesday on charges of abuse of power and obstructing Congress in an investigation.

The process now shifts over to the Republican-controlled Senate, which is expected to acquit Trump, just the same as Clinton was in the 1998.

'While [impeachment] is garnering significant press attention, it remains of little concern to equity markets given that Trump's acquittal in the Senate is a near certainty,' Robert Kerning, a J.P. Morgan trader, said in a note to clients Wednesday, reports CNBC.

If stocks continue to track when Clinton was in office, Trump's market could see gains of 40 per cent in coming months, says LPL Financial, CNBC reports.

To contrast, the S&P fell 11 per cent after the start of Nixon's impeachment inqury, and dropped more than 15 per cent three months later. Within a year, it sunk more than 33 per cent. The U.S. economy also was embroiled in a major recession at the time.

Stocks fell 13 per cent when Richard Nixon ran into his own impeachment woes over the Watergate scandal

A market rally of 18.9 per cent followed a month after the start of Clinton's impeachment process, and was 41.6 per cent three months later. Within a year, it was more than 39.2 per cent.

'If Democrats meant to diminish the strength of the president, I think the opposite is going to happen,' Joe Watkins, former White House aid for President George H.W. Bush, said on CNBC's 'The Exchange' on Wednesday.