A multi-state outbreak of listeria infections linked to packaged hard-boiled eggs has sickened six people and left one dead, health officials say.

According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), bulk hard-boiled eggs produced by Almark Foods of Gainesville, Georgia, are contaminated with the bacteria.

Cases have been reported in Florida, Maine, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Texas, including a newborn who was infected while the mother was pregnant, but survived.

Four people have been hospitalized including a Texas patient who ultimately died.

According to the CDC, cases of listeria linked to packaged hard-boiled eggs have been reported in Florida, Maine, Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Texas (file image)

Cases occurred from April 2017 to November 12 and those who became sick range in age from less than one year old to 82 years old.

Of the five people that the CDC interviewed, four said they ate products containing hard-boiled eggs the month before they became ill.

Three of them said the hard-boiled eggs were either in deli salads bought at grocery stores or in salads from restaurants.

Listeriosis is a serious infection that is typically caused by eating food contaminated with the bacterium Listeria monocytogenes.

The most common foods are unpasteurized milk, soft cheeses, vegetables and meat products such as deli meat.

Symptoms usually begin one to four weeks after exposure and include headache, loss of confusion, muscle aches and fever.

Pregnant women who are infected can go into premature labor, have a stillbirth or suffer a miscarriage.

Additionally, those on dialysis are 50 times more likely to contract a listeria infection, the CDC says.

About 1,600 people fall ill with the infection every year in the US and about 260 people die, according to the CDC.

Almark Foods hard-boiled eggs have not been recalled, but health officials warn anyone against selling or serving the eggs.

Because customers may not be able to identify if the eggs came from Almark, the CDC advises that people at higher risk for listeriosis - such as pregnant women or cancer patients - throw away hard-boiled eggs bought at a store.

This does not include eggs that people have hard-boiled at home or dishes made with homemade hard-boiled eggs like egg salad.

This is the third time this month that grocery store products have been recalled over listeria fears.

Two weeks ago, White Castle recalled hundreds of packages of its frozen sliders over fears they may be contaminated with listeria.

And a few days prior, 24 ready-to-eat sushi trays, salads and spring rolls made by Fuji Food Products were recalled in 31 states after the FDA found evidence they may be contaminated with the bacteria