DALLAS (AP) - Matthew Tkachuk, Sean Monahan and Mikael Backlund scored power-play goals and the Calgary Flames beat the Dallas Stars 5-1 on Sunday night.

Tkachuk큦 14th goal of the season broke a 1-1 tie in the second period. Monahan also scored in the second. Backlund큦 goal in the third period preceded a short-handed, empty-net goal by Derek Ryan.

The three power-play goals were the most for Calgary in a game this season, and the most allowed by Dallas.

Flames goalie David Rittich made 26 saves and picked up his first career assist on Backlund큦 goal.

Andrew Mangiapane scored Calgary큦 first goal in the opening period. Denis Gurianov countered 38 seconds later for Dallas.

Elias Lindholm assisted on Calgary큦 first three goals.

Calgary Flames goaltender David Rittich (33) blocks a shot attempt from Dallas Stars defenseman Miro Heiskanen (4) during the third period of an NHL hockey game, Sunday, Dec. 22, 2019, in Dallas. (AP Photo/Sam Hodde)

Stars goalie Ben Bishop had 25 saves.

The Flames had been 0-2-1 in their previous three games. Dallas has lost three of four.

COYOTES 5, RED WINGS 2

DETROIT (AP) - Clayton Keller had two goals and an assist to lead Arizona past Detroit.

Carl Soderberg, Taylor Hall and Christian Dvorak also scored for Arizona. Coyotes defenseman Oliver Ekman-Larsson had three assists and Nick Schmaltz added two.

Antti Raanta made 28 saves in Arizona큦 first game since No. 1 goalie Darcy Kuemper sustained a lower-body injury Friday during an 8-5 loss to Minnesota.

Filip Zadina and Tyler Bertuzzi scored for Detroit. Jimmy Howard stopped 40 shots in his return after missing 10 games with a lower-body injury.

RANGERS 5, DUCKS 1

NEW YORK (AP) - Chris Kreider scored twice and New York beat Anaheim to end a three-game losing streak.

Mika Zibanejad had a goal and an assist, while Filip Chytil and Brett Howden also scored for the Rangers. Henrik Lundqvist made 19 saves.

Sam Steel scored for the Ducks and Ryan Miller made 36 saves.

GOLDEN KNIGHTS 3, SHARKS 1

SAN JOSE, Calif. (AP) - Shea Theodore scored the tiebreaking goal with 11:55 remaining in the third period and Vegas beat struggling San Jose for its ninth win in 13 games.

Paul Stastny and Jonathan Marchessault also scored, and Malcolm Subban made 37 saves to keep the Golden Knights tied for first place in the Pacific Division with Arizona.

Logan Couture scored for the Sharks, who lost for the ninth time in 10 games. Aaron Dell made 34 saves.

___

More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports