If you're stuck for what to buy people this Christmas, a boozy gift set always goes down a treat.

From boozy stocking fillers to champagne truffles and fizz from Hotel Chocolat and Fever Tree's Ultimate Gin and Tonic Collection, there's something for everyone on this list.

Here we round up the best gifts you can buy this Christmas for those who like a tipple - and most don't need wrapping as you can send them straight through the post.

If you don't just want to buy someone one bottle of gin for Christmas, why not go for this gift set from Fever Tree?

The eight bottle set includes four mini bottles of high quality gin and four bottles of Fever Tree premium tonic for 'The Ultimate G&T Tasting Selection'. It also comes in a gift box with a handle for easy carrying.

Fever Tree recommends pairing the Lemon Tonic with the Beefeater Gin, the Martin Millers Gin with the Elderflower Tonic, the Bombay Sapphire Gin with the Mediterranean Tonic and the Sipsmith Gin with the Indian Tonic water.





Buy now on Amazon

This is the ultimate boozy gift set for the person in your life who loves a glass of fizz and can't get enough chocolate.

The Hotel Chocolat Chocolate and Fizz Collection includes a mini bottle of Prosecco, Champagne Truffles, Salted Caramel Puddles, a Salted Caramel Nano Slab, a Dark Fruit and Nut Nano Slab and one of the chocolatiers Mini Everything Selection.

It also comes in a gorgeous gift box so you don't even have to wrap it.

Buy now on Hotel Chocolat

On the hunt for the perfect present for your dad this Christmas? If he's a beer lover, look no further.

This boozy gift set by Beer Hawk contains five 330ml cans of craft beer including lager, pale ale and IPA from top notch breweries such as Magic Rock, Roosters, Goose Island, Laine and Bad Co.

It also includes a Beer Hawk glass to sup them all down with - and a pair of funny beer socks. What dad doesn't need them?

The stylish gift box it comes in means the set is easy to wrap and, as it's cans rather than bottles, it won't be too heavy to carry.

Buy now on Amazon

This is the first of two M&S entries on this list, but they are a great go to for alcohol gift sets all year round, whatever the occasion.

This £15 set includes a full size bottle of red wine; in this case La Vita Sangiovese, plus a selection of milk, dark and white chocolates. They also do a white wine gift set for the same price.

Another great thing about ordering from M&S is you can add a personal message to the gift and get it sent straight out to the recipient, so you don't have to wrap it.

Buy now on M&S

Another one for fizz lovers, this M&S set contains a full size bottle of Casa di Amello Prosecco and a pack of ten salted caramel chocolates.

At £20 it's still reasonably priced and comes in a stylish gift box, which you can add a personal message to at the checkout when you order online from the M&S website.

Buy now on M&S

This Honest Brew beer gift set bills itself as a stocking filler - but with six beers in, it's more of a full present.

Featuring a mix of six bottles and cans from the best breweries in the UK and Europe, plus a bar blade bottle opener, it's the perfect gift for the craft beer lover in your life.

Buy now on Honest Brew

This is one for the whisky lover in your life - and is perfect if you're not sure what kind of whisky they like.

The set from Sheep Dip, which made it's name in the 1980s when it was a bestselling whisky at Harrods no less, contains three mini bottles of blended Scotch to try.

It includes Sheep Dip, Sheep Dip Islay and The Feathery from their range, each in 20cl measures.

Buy now on John Lewis

This nice little set includes a full bottle of Tesco Finest Late Bottled Vintage Port (which equals 15 glasses so it's perfect for sharing).

The attractive gift box also contains a slate cheeseboard, cheese knife and a jar of Tesco Finest Red Onion Chutney - all for just £12. All you need to do is add your own cheese...

Buy now on Tesco

If you know someone who can't get enough of cocktails, this home Espresso Martini kit could be right up their street.

The gift set includes two 100ml bottles of Tovaritch Vodka, one Coffee Liqueur, one Hazelnut liqueur and one Lazzaroni Amaretto - that's enough to make six cocktails.

And you're not limited to making Espresso Martinis as the kit also includes recipes for Cuppa Joe and Toasted Almond cocktails.

Buy now on Amazon

If it's a boozy stocking filler you're after, why not try this Negroni In A Box?

Cans of G&T were a trend in 2019 (thanks in part to Fleabag) - but ready-made cocktails are set to be big for 2020.

This one by Italian brand Cocchi (pronounced cocky) is made from the traditional Negroni recipe of vermouth, dry gin and Campari. Just add ice and a slice of orange peel.

Buy now on The Whisky Exchange

Check out our discount section for Amazon deals and offers.

MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.