Switching to unleaded petrol may be behind a decline in cases of dementia across Europe and North America, research suggests.

Ageing populations have meant more people than ever are living with the memory-robbing disorder.

But other studies have shown dementia rates have actually been falling by up to 15 per cent every decade, since the 1980s.

This date coincides with Governments switching to unleaded petrol, according to researchers from the University of Toronto.

The authors could not prove lead causes dementia - but they pointed to an array of studies that showed it can be detrimental to brain health.

A decline in cases of dementia across Europe and North America has been sparked by a ban on lead in petrol, research suggests (stock image)

They pointed to a form of dementia known as limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy (LATE), which is similar to Alzheimer's.

The researchers said 'heavy metals such as lead' had been linked to the condition, which mainly affects people over 80.

They believe the prevalence of LATE will continue to plummet as older generations, who were exposed to leaded petrol, die out.

A growing body of evidence has linked changes to behaviour and mental health to exposure to lead – a known neurotoxin that kills brain cells.

Excessive amounts seeping into the bloodstream can increase brain age by up to six years, studies have shown.

The compound was added to petrol almost a century ago to make car engines more efficient.

As more studies revealed the dangers, it was steadily phased out from the 1970s. By 1986 unleaded petrol was on sale in the UK.

Leaded petrol was finally banned under EU law in 2000 - four years after the US did the same.

Study author Professor Esme Fuller-Thomson said: 'While the negative impact of lead exposure on the IQ of children is well known, less attention has been paid to the cumulative effects of a lifetime of exposure on older adults' cognition and dementia.

'Given previous levels of lead exposure, we believe further exploration of this hypothesis is warranted.

'The levels of lead exposure when I was a child in 1976 were 15 times what they are today.

'Back then, 88 per cent of us had blood lead levels above 10 micrograms per deciliter.'

ZhiDi Deng, a pharmacy student who co-wrote the article, said: 'If lifetime lead exposure is found to be a major contributor to dementia, we can expect continued improvements in the incidence of dementia for many more decades as each succeeding generation has fewer years of exposure to the neurotoxin.'

The researchers note that other plausible explanations for the improving trends in incidence include better education, less smoking and healthier blood pressure levels compared to previous generations.

In the UK there are about 850,000 people with dementia, a figure expected to rise to two million by 2050 as the population ages.

Roughly 5.8million Americans have the disorder. Currently, drugs can only treat the symptoms, and not the cause.

The study published in the Journal of Alzheimer's Disease.