A substitute teacher was fired from a Massachusetts high school after he openly began using marijuana in front of a class of students, school officials said.

Students at North Atleborough High School immediately reported the unnamed substitute after he began using cannabis in front of them in class on Monday and he was terminated, principal Peter Haviland wrote in an email to parents obtained by DailyMail.com.

Haviland did not say how the teacher was using the marijuana, but said the instructor was 'leading conversations in a classroom about smoking marijuana and was observed using marijuana in front of students in the same classroom'.

A substitute teacher was fired from North Attleborough High School (pictured) after he openly began using marijuana in front of a class of students, school officials said

A relative identified the teacher as Jason Arundale, and said he is suffering from brain cancer. The teacher, says the relative, was using a vape device (file image) loaded with cannabis oil when he was terminated from the high school

'After confirming the details of the student report, the teacher was immediately removed from the classroom, the students and our school,' Haviland wrote in the email about the incident on Monday.

A relative who later spoke with the local newspaper, the Sun Chronicle, identified the teacher as Jason Arundale.

The relative, who did not want to be named in a front page story that also ran online, said the substitute is suffering from brain cancer.

The relative said Arundale was using a vape device loaded with 'marijuana oil' when students reported him to school administrators, and that he admitted his actions to police.

North Attleborough Principal Peter Haviland's email to parents about a substitute teacher who was fired after he openly began using marijuana in a class full of students

Arundale, who enjoyed being a substitute have have had his judgement impaired by his medical condition, the relatives told the Sun Chronicle.

Relatives did not immediately respond when DailyMail.com reached out.

North Attleborough Police Chief John Reilly tells the Sun Chronicle that the incident remains under investigation and declined to comment further.

The police also did not respond to a query from DailyMail.com.

Students interviewed after the incident had varied reactions over the substitute teacher's alleged behavior.

'It's very surprising somebody would think that's something they could get away with,' Brett Labonte, a senior at the school, tells WLNE.

Riley O'Brien, also a senior, says the teacher was well-liked.

'He was easy to talk to,' she tells WLNE. 'He was a nice guy, but I was shocked'.