Trinidad and Tobago international Shahdon Winchester has died at the age of 27 after being involved in a fireball car crash.

Winchester was one of four people to lose their life during the fatal car accident on the Sir Solomon Hochoy Highway in his native Trinidad.

One woman and three men died on Thursday morning with the female being confirmed as Winchester's girlfriend.

Shahdon Winchester has lost his life after being involved in a fatal car accident

Winchester leaves behind a three-year-old daughter which he described as his 'princess'

One of the other deceased men has been confirmed as Keston Nicholas.

Winchester leaves behind a three-year-old daughter who was born in November 2016.

He posted several messages on his Twitter account about his 'princess' during the last few years.

Winchester's Nissan X-Trail is said to have collided with a telephone pole which led to his vehicle being engulfed in flames.

SHAHDON WINCHESTER FACT-FILE Born: 8 January 1992, Princes Town, Trinidad & Tobago Position: Forward Clubs: W Connection (Trinidad & Tobago), Song Lam Nghe An (Vietnam), FF Jaro (Finland), Murcielagos (Mexico), Kapaz (Azerbaijan), SJK (Finland) Career appearances: 208 Total goals: 78 International caps: 23

He was left trapped inside the emblazoned car which led to his shock death.

Firefighters were at the scene before their bodies were removed from the car after 9am.

Winchester made his full international debut in June 2010 at the age of 18 before making a further 22 appearances for his national team.

He played in Trinidad and Tobago, Vietnam, Finland and Mexico during his career.

Winchester celebrates after scoring for Trinidad and Tobago during his international career

Tributes have poured in following news of his death.

FIFA tweeted: 'Our thoughts are with the family, friends and team-mates of Shahdon Winchester following the tragic news of his passing.'

The Trinidad and Tobago Football Association tweeted: 'Tragic and Heartbreaking news just coming to hand.

'Trinidad and Tobago forward Shahdon Winchester has been confirmed as one of the persons who have died in a vehicular accident this morning in Gasparillo. This is truly tragic news for us. May his Soul Rest In Eternal Peace.'