A four-year-old girl is being hailed for calling 911 after she discovered her mom unconscious on the kitchen floor earlier this month.

Isla Glaser, of Franklin Township, New Jersey, called emergency services on the morning of December 6, telling the dispatcher: 'My mommy fell down and can't talk!'

The youngster explained that her mother, Hayler Glaser, had been suffering from a fever and that her father was away at work.

The only other people inside the home where her younger siblings - her two-year-old sister, and her one-year-old twin brothers.

Recognizing the seriousness of the situation, the dispatcher quickly sent cops to the home after Isla gave them the address.

Clearly taking control of the situation, young Isla worked to quieten the family dogs and unlock the front door for the authorities.

Four-year-old Isla Glaser discovered her mom, Hayley, lying unconscious on the kitchen floor of their New Jersey home on December 6 and quickly called 911. The pair are pictured together

Little Isla kept calm as she explained the situation to dispatchers and gave them the address to her home

Officers rushed mom Hayley to hospital for treatment, with medics now saying that Isla's actions may have saved her mom's life.

On Facebook, Hayley praised her 'superhero' daughter for her quick-thinking, and explained that she had been receiving chemotherapy in the days before she passed out in the kitchen.

'I started chemotherapy again last week and my body has had a hard time adjusting to it. I've been sick all week and just run down, but today it felt different,' she wrote from her hospital bed.

'At some point while we were eating breakfast, I got up to take my temperature (101.5), and my next thought was to call my doctor. However, the next thing I remember was feeling really dizzy and then I passed out.'

Isla (front left) even managed to make her younger siblings breakfast while police attended to her mom. The family of six is pictured

Hayley then shared a photo of Isla and wrote: 'Cue super hero music. This little girl right here, my baby, my kind, silly, smart, brave baby, took my phone and dialed 911'.

She continued: 'I have no words for how incredibly grateful and proud I am of my baby. She did what some adults would not know how to do. She didn't hesitate and she remained calm the entire time. She is my hero!'

Hayley even revealed that Isla managed to make her three younger siblings breakfast after cops arrived at the house.

She has now been recognized as an honorary junior police officer for her heroic actions.

Hayley and Isla also appeared on Good Morning America on Thursday

Cops also awarded her a certificate of commendation.

'I know adults that can't handle this type of an incident with that much bravery, poise and distinction,' said Lieutenant Philip Rizzo told Good Morning America on Thursday.

Hayley and Isla also appeared on the breakfast program Thursday, with Hayley stating: 'She easily could have been scared and she was faced with a potentially really scary situation, but she handled herself with complete and utter control and composure.'