A man has revealed that his pregnant cousin got angry with him after he said he wasn't buying a Christmas gift for her unborn baby who isn't due until May — and his entire family agreed with her.

Reddit user inoahguy98 took to the 'AmItheA**hole' forum on Sunday to ask if he was in the wrong for thinking it's ridiculous to get a present for an unborn child that doesn't even have a name yet.

The 21-year-old explained that he has a 'huge family' and they do a Secret Santa for the adults while continuing to buy gifts for anyone who is under the age of 15.

Awkward: A 21-year-old man revealed on Reddit that is pregnant cousin is furious with him because he said he isn't buying her unborn child a gift

He said they were recently hanging out at his pregnant cousin's house when the topic of Secret Santa came up.

When he shared what he got his four nieces and one nephew for Christmas, his cousin responded: 'Aren't you forgetting someone?'

'I honestly couldn’t think about who I was forgetting,' he admitted, 'so I said, "No haha." She then said, "What about baby number two?"'

The Reddit user said his cousin pointed to her stomach because the baby doesn't have a name yet, and he assumed she was joking.

The man noted that she is expecting her second child in May while her eldest is turning one on December 27.

'Oh yeah duh how could I forget!' he replied with a joking tone in his voice.

Not having it: Many people in the comments section agreed that it is outrageous for his cousin to pressure him to buy a gift for her baby when she was only four months pregnant

That's when things got really awkward.

'The room went from everyone talking over each other and laughs to dead silence,' he said, explaining he had no idea what had happened.

'She then looked me dead in the eye and asked if I was really not getting the baby something, and I said, "Umm no why would I? The baby isn’t even born yet,"' he recalled.

'She and my aunt and other cousins all jumped on my case and freaked out, and after 20 minutes of arguing my case I just left and told them I would see them at Christmas,' he continued.

'So am I the a**hole for not getting my cousin's second baby, who is DUE IN MAY a Christmas gift??' he asked.

Many people in the comments section agreed that it is outrageous for his cousin to pressure him to buy a gift for her baby when she was only four months pregnant.

'That's what a freaking baby shower is for. You get people who can OPEN IT and ENJOY IT gifts,' one person wrote.

Good point! One person joked that he should 'get the baby a voucher for a gift redeemable when it's born'

'OP's cousin can't even bother to get the baby a name but expects OP to get it a present?' another asked. 'Her logic seems so very flawed...'

Even people who are due to give birth this month said they would never expect anyone to get their babies Christmas gifts.

'My son is due to be born on Christmas Eve and my husband and I aren't getting him any presents,' one Reddit user explained. 'This isn't a chance for a baby shower!'

'Who gets unborn babies presents? That doesn't seem normal. The baby will have their first Christmas next year,' someone else stressed, and the man agreed.

'It’s not normal,' he responded, explaining that he just found out his cousin expects him to get the baby a present because his mother, aunt, sister, and three other cousins said they are all buying gifts for the family's newest addition.

One person joked that he should 'get the baby a voucher for a gift redeemable when it's born.'

'I love this,' he replied.