A Tennessee inventor has learned his creative bloodline runs back more than a century to the inventor of Christmas tree lights.

A genealogy website spent weeks tracking down the last living relative of Edward Hibberd Johnson, who used the light bulb patent of Thomas Edison to create the first Christmas tree lights in 1882.

James Newburn, 67, an entrepreneur who created a special kind of leather bag for bicycles and even tried to create a drug for fighting cancer, was delighted to discover he was the great-great-grandson of Johnson.

'I was shocked and surprised and proud all at the same time,' Newburn told DailyMail.com. 'I've always been creative and run many businesses of my own so it confirmed that creativity runs in the family.'

The Christmas-loving businessman said his relative 'also might explain why I'm so incredibly festive.'

James Newburn, 67, is the great-great grandson of Christmas tree light inventor Edward Johnson who used the light bulb patent of Thomas Edison in 1882

Johnson debuted the red, white and blue display of 80 hand-wired bulbs at his New York home

Newburn was tracked down with only the initial knowledge of Johnson's birthday and birthplace Philadelphia. Johnson died in 1917 after an electrical accident.

It took MyHeritage.com researchers weeks to find the inventor's living relative Newburn via his great-great-great grandfather Albert B Johnson, whose Civil War draft card and censuses were available online.

Documents including Edward's 1896 passport application and WWI draft record revealed his three children, Edna Earl Palmer, Lilian Adele Hoyt and Edward Hibberd Johnson jr.

A news article showed Edna's husband George Quintard Palmer, lived in the Fifth Avenue, New York and a 1900 census listed their daughter Lilian.

Lilian married Henry Coster Steers a year before Edward Hibberd Johnson – who was married to Magaret Virginia Kenney Johnson - passed away after an electrical accident.

One of Lilian's three daughters Anthea Steers, married James C Newburn in 1949 and their pair had the Nashville-born man who was thrilled to find out about his family tree.

'Through accessing more than 10 billion records available on MyHeritage.com it was possible to uncover the fascinating family history of Edward Hibberd Johnson,' Aaron Godfrey, VP of marketing at MyHeritage.com, said.

'And we are delighted to have delivered the festive gift of such a fascinating family tree to James, his great-great-grandson.'

People used candles, which were a fire hazard, before Johnson debuted the string lights (pictured) at his New York home

Johnson who used the light bulb patent of Thomas Edison (pictured) in 1882

One hundred years after Johnson became business associates with Edison in the Big Apple, Newburn was helping on city residents who were first introduced the tradition of the Rockefeller tree just decades prior.

'Now I get it, this is why I love inventing things and starting businesses,' he continued. 'During the gas crisis in the 1970s I was in my teens in and I started a small company making leather bags to hang on the back of bicycles in New York City because everyone had to ride bikes and this allowed them to carry more.'

Even after selling his bag business, Newburn couldn't help but use his innate creativity for something else.

'I had dreams of being a millionaire by the age of 21 but I soon realized there's more to life than money. I sold that company to my partner but I'd gained experience with leather so I founded Victoria Leather, designing and making women's handbags,' he added.

'I'm proud to say that company is still in business today in Philadelphia.

'After that, at the beginning of the 1990s when the health food trend started, I opened The Squash Blossom Market, the largest health food store in southern Alabama.'

According to MyHeritage.com, after being a shoemaker in 1850, his great-great-great grandfather was a grocery clerk in 1870.

President Grover Cleveland had his White House family tree decorated with red, white and blue Christmas lights (left). That was in 1894, just three years after the capitol got electricity. President Franklin Pierce placed the first Christmas tree in the White House in 1856 (right)

The website found Newburn after digging out the records of Edward Johnson's father then working through a family tree of 85 people including the inventor's daughter Edna Earl Palmer

MyHeritage.com found newspaper coverage of James Newburn's grandmother Lilian Palmer (left) which led to his mother Anthea Steers (right) who married his father James C. Newburn

Newburn's entrepreneurial spirit even led his attempt to cure cancer, however the controversial product got shut down by the FDA. He had a leather goods business and owns a health food store

Newburn's entrepreneurial spirit even led his attempt to cure cancer, however the controversial product got shut down by the FDA.

Newburn is spending the holidays at his second home in Silverhill on the Gulf Coast where he goes every year with his wife Gloria to celebrate Christmas.

'We spend our winters here because it's warm, but the lack of snow means that the people of Silverhill make up for it by celebrating Christmas in a spectacular way, with absolutely everyone displaying Christmas trees with lights and decorations everywhere,' Newburn said on Thursday.

'It's almost a national monument to Christmas trees.'

The retired entrepreneur says that Christmas became much more enjoyable once he had his son Chase, 32, and daughter Kelsey, 30.

'My 10-year-old granddaughter Lolana still believes in Santa Claus and that means the world to me,' Newburn opened up.

'But when she met Santa at school recently she said, "I know that's not him!" so we may have to tell her soon. But Christmas is such a joyful time of year.'

MyHeritage.com tracked down Newburn using records found online and revealed the news to him last week. Newburn is big on the festive season