Advertisement

The financial information for Hunter Biden's baby mama has been released exclusively to DailyMail.com, just days after he was found hiding out in Los Angeles.

Hunter ducked out of his home on Friday afternoon, wearing a blue suede jacket, skinny jeans and boots. He has been laying low during his bitter paternity dispute with Lunden Roberts.

On Sunday, Roberts' financial information from the last five years was obtained by DailyMail.com. In the documents, the Lancaster & Lancaster Law Firm, which represents Roberts, reveals that the 28-year-old received money from a company owned by Hunter from May 2018 to November 2018.

'She never received a tax document for these payments,' her attorneys wrote, adding that the undisclosed amount of payments are reflected on her bank records.

According to the documents, Roberts also worked for Hunter and submitted pay stubs as proof of employment along with a health insurance card that he reportedly provided her.

Scroll down for video

The financial information for Hunter Biden's (right) baby mama, Lunden Roberts (left), has been released exclusively to DailyMail.com, just days after he was found hiding out in Los Angeles

On Sunday, Roberts' financial information from the last five years was obtained by DailyMail.com. In the documents, the Lancaster & Lancaster Law Firm, which represents Roberts (pictured), reveals that the 28-year-old received money from a company owned by Hunter from May 2018 to November 2018

Roberts continued to make the case for her paternity suit by outlining other sources of income that she's received, including $1,700 that her father paid in fees for her to graduate college and her annual Christmas bonus that she receives from her current employer

Roberts continued to make the case for her paternity suit by outlining other sources of income that she's received, including $1,700 that her father paid in fees for her to graduate college and her annual Christmas bonus that she receives from her current employer.

'Occasionally, and without regular reoccurrence, the plaintiff has been provided insignificant amounts of money - what some may classify as "petty cash" - by her parents for her or her daughter's needs,' the document reads.

Roberts said that family and friends have given her and her child toys and other things, but 'these events are infrequent, and while cherished and very appreciated, are not gifts of monetary value'.

On Friday, Hunter was seen for the first time since DailyMail.com revealed that his new South African wife Melissa Cohen, 32, is pregnant and in her second trimester.

As Hunter lays low on the West Coast, Trump demanded that he be called as a witness in his impeachment trial since Hunter is at the center of the trial based on his role with Ukrainian oil company Burisma.

And apparently, his father Joe Biden has had enough of the focus on his son, lashing out during Thursday's presidential candidate debate, claiming Republicans are 'attacking' Hunter.

Joe complained about Republicans targeting not only him and his son, but his entire family, saying: 'The way they’ve attacked me, my son and my family, I have no love.'

He added: 'But we must get things done and if we can’t convince them we have to go out and beat them.'

On Friday, Hunter was seen for the first time since DailyMail.com revealed that his new South African wife Melissa Cohen, 32, is pregnant and in her second trimester

As Hunter lays low on the West Coast, Trump demanded that he be called as a witness in his impeachment trial since Hunter is at the center of the trial based on his role with Ukrainian oil company Burisma. And apparently, his father Joe Biden (center) has had enough of the focus on his son, lashing out during Thursday's presidential candidate debate

Last week, DailyMail.com published photos of Hunter's wife Melissa running errands around Los Angeles, with her blossoming baby bump on full display.

A close friend of Melissa's told DailyMailTV that while the couple is 'thrilled' at having a baby, there's also a lot of anxiety around the pregnancy.

They said: 'Friends are deeply concerned, anyone who knows Melissa knows that she's one of the sweetest people you can meet.

'She's in love with Hunter and of course they're thrilled, but the pain and stress they're going through every day is cause for real concern.

'There is constant hatred directed towards them from Trump supporters and the President himself.

'People are attacking her, she's not running for office, her husband's dad is, all she wants to do is keep her unborn child safe.'

Trump has ramped up the pressure on Hunter in recent months.

In October he tweeted: 'Where's Hunter?' and in another tweet he wrote: 'He has totally disappeared!'

The businessman - who has been at the center of a political firestorm over his links to a Ukrainian energy company - married Melissa 10 days after they met in an impromptu wedding on May 16 this year

A little over a week ago, DailyMail.com revealed that his new South African wife Melissa Cohen, 32, (left and right) is pregnant and in her second trimester

While Hunter and Melissa are currently living in Los Angeles, they are considering relocating to keep their family safe

Trump started using the 'Where's Hunter?' slogan at political rallies and his 2020 campaign website is even selling $25 T-shirts that read 'Where's Hunter?'.

Trump's stance has provoked a tidal wave of online abuse and hate against Hunter and his wife.

The source added: 'And Melissa is also not making a noise about being a new mom because she is respectful of the other woman's child and her mother.

'Luckily she's a very strong woman and she will get through this with Hunter because they have a love which is strong.'

While Hunter and Melissa are currently living in Los Angeles, they are considering relocating to keep their family safe, the friend explained.

Also last week, an Arkansas judge unsealed a filing in Hunter's paternity case with Roberts, which revealed Hunter complained she was trying to 'embarrass' him by demanding details of his financials.

Trump has ramped up the pressure on Hunter in recent months. The President started using the 'Where's Hunter?' slogan at political rallies and his 2020 campaign website is even selling $25 t-shirts reading 'Where's Hunter?'

The president's stance has provoked a tidal wave of online abuse and hate against Hunter and his wife

Hunter's legal team had tried to use his dad to get the deposition sealed, arguing information that came from his deposition scheduled for December 23 could 'unreasonably annoy, embarrass or oppress' Hunter - and his family.

His lawyers went a step further and asked the judge to quash the deposition entirely, saying by handing over an affidavit of his financial means should provide Roberts with 'all relevant information for any argument of temporary child support'.

On Wednesday, Roberts accused Biden of refusing to hand over his financial records and demanded that he turn over all documents pertaining to his accounts from the past five years.

She filed papers asking the court to compel him to turn over the records.

The two met while Roberts worked as a stripper at Mpire in Washington, DC. She gave birth to their child last August.

She wants Biden's financial records to establish how much he should pay in child support, as well as proving he can afford to foot her $11,000 legal bill.

Roberts' (circled) lawyers said in legal papers that Hunter has objected to answering any of their discovery questions, which included confirming the state in which he lives, his phone number and if he worked for Ukrainian oil company Burisma

Roberts' lawyers said in legal papers that Biden has objected to answering any of their discovery questions, which included confirming the state in which he lives, his phone number and if he worked for Burisma.

Her lawyers said: 'It should, by now, be abundantly clear to the Court that the defendant is not going to answer or provide any of his discoverable financial information unless the Court forces him to do so.

'The defendant has provided no support for this child for over a year.

'The Court should not let the defendant continue to avoid his natural and legal duty to support his child by failing to provide basic information about his income, finances and lifestyle.

'This Court should compel the defendant to answer the interrogatories and requests for production documents in time for the January 7, 2020 hearing in this case.'