Advertisement

They are spending the festive period at his family's resort in St. Barts.

And Vogue Williams and her husband Spencer Matthews appeared to be having a whale of a time as they hit the waves on paddle boards together, while soaking up the sun during a beach day on Thursday afternoon.

The Irish TV presenter, 34, showcased her sizzling physique in a tiny pink bikini, which flaunted her gym-honed washboard abs as she balanced on the board and showed Spencer how it was done.

Living it up: Vogue Williams and her husband Spencer Matthews appeared to be having a whale of a time as they hit the waves on paddle boards together, while soaking up the sun during a beach day on Thursday afternoon

Vogue's two-piece consisted of a triangle-style top half teamed with a pair of equally skimpy bottoms, which she accessorised with a silver chain necklace, chunky gold hoop earrings and a pair of rounded shades.

The model swept her blonde tresses up into a messy bun and appeared to go make-up free, showing off her naturally radiant complexion as she topped up her tan in the glorious sunshine.

Vogue's athletic physique was put to good use during the day, as she showcased her paddle boarding skills while out at sea with her reality star beau Spencer.

Like this Spenny! The Irish TV presenter, 34, showcased her sizzling physique in a tiny pink bikini, which flaunted her gym-honed washboard abs as she balanced on the board and showed Spencer how it was done

Wow! Vogue's two-piece consisted of a triangle-style top half teamed with a pair of equally skimpy bottoms, which she accessorised with a silver chain necklace, chunky gold hoop earrings and a pair of rounded shades

Hot mama! The model swept her blonde tresses up into a messy bun and appeared to go make-up free, showing off her naturally radiant complexion as she topped up her tan in the glorious sunshine

What a pro! Vogue's athletic physique was put to good use during the day, as she showcased her paddle boarding skills while out at sea with her reality star beau Spencer

Chilling out: Following their energetic display the couple chilled out together on their paddle boards

Ahoy there! Spencer waved towards the shore while Vogue battled against the tide with her oar

Bottoms up! Vogue flashed her pert posterior as she bent down to grab her oar

Beaming! Vogue smiled with delight as she perched next to Spencer on their boards

Skilful! Vogue managed to stay upright as she appeared to wobble slightly on her board

Wowza! Vogue looked like a goddess a she lay back on her board alongside Spencer

Sunny delight! Vogue kept her ankle strapped to the board while taking a breather with Spencrer

Meanwhile, Spencer kept it simple in a pair of black swimming shorts as he went shirtless and showcased his toned torso, while strolling along the beach with Vogue by his side.

Spencer recently chatted to MailOnline about settling down and ditching his Lothario reputation from his Made In Chelsea days.

The TV personality, who shares son Theodore, 15 months, with Vogue, can’t believe how much his life has changed – for the better.

Hand-in-hand: Meanwhile, Spencer kept it simple in a pair of black swimming shorts as he went shirtless and showcased his toned torso, while strolling along the beach with Vogue by his side

Time to go! Following their chill time the couple hopped back onto their boards and back to shore

Beach babe: The mother-of-one looked incredible as she balanced her statuesque frame on the board

And....relax! Vogue ensured she topped up her glowing tan while lounging on the paddle board

Action man! Spencer appeared to be a dab hand with the paddle board and glided across the water with ease

Sun-soaked: Vogue appeared to be in her element as she basked in the rays on her board

Time to chill: Vogue may have been warning Spencer about the impending wave heading their way

Ride it! Vogue knelt on the board as she way her way out to sea to join husband Spencer

Uh oh! Vogue looked like she was about to topple off her board judging by her facial expression

Jokers! Spencer appeared to be having a good giggle while lounging next to Vogue

Discussing becoming a family man, Spencer said: ‘I was always pretty selfish. Vogue and I weren’t looking for a serious relationship at the time we met and I think that’s probably part of the reason why we became so close as friends first. It made sense.

‘I recognised a lot of Vogue in me and vice versa. We fit, we were very compatible together - even my mum thinks we’re similar!

'She’s my best mate. When Vogue came around, that was me done.

Glowing! The genetically-blessed duo appeared keen to make the most of the sunshine during their trip

Couple time! They were without their little boy Theodore, who was presumably being looked after elsewhere, during the activity

Peachy! Vogue flaunted her very peachy posterior in the tiny pink bikini bottoms

Playtime! Vogue and Spencer put on a playful display as they larked around in the sea together

Easy does it! The model gently made her way up onto the board without topping off

Activity: A woman in a black swimsuit appeared to be helping Vogue out with the activity

Pretty in pink! Vogue spent some of the time knelt on the board while Spencer navigated his board

'I honestly don’t think anyone should put a timeline on it – getting it wrong is way wrong than settling it at a later date. Even some of my male friends are panicking about settling down.

‘[When you meet The One] all of a sudden, you want to put other people first.

'Of course you think about yourself and your work, but ultimately Vogue and Theodore are what matters.'

Wow! Vogue looked incredible as she flaunted her gym-honed physique on the board

Sweet: The couple put on a touching display of affection as they held hands

Topping up the tan! Vogue and Spencer appeared to be having a fantastic afternoon in the sunshine

Feel the breeze! The couple looked windswept as they sat up on their boards together

Cute: Vogue and Spencer are spending Christmas at the resort with their little boy Theodore

Hunk: Spencer looked phenomenal as he flaunted his rippling muscles in his beachwear

Careful! There appeared to be a few tense moments as Vogue tried to balance herself on the board

Just keep swimming! They cooled off from the blazing afternoon hit by taking a dip in the sea

Wahey! Spencer was ever the showman as he showed Vogue his diving techniques

Aww! The couple held hands as they made their way back up the beach together

Helping hand! Spencer helped Vogue with her paddle board while she grabbed the oar

Graceful: Spencer had clearly been working on his diving technique

Crashing waves: The couple made their way back up the shoreline as they waded through the surf

Mumy duties! Vogue later added a pale pink trilby to her ensemble as she filled Theodore's buckets

Chilling: Vogue later swam out to the padded pontoon to continue her tanning session

Made In St Barts: Vogue used the ladder to make her way on and off the pontoon

Taking the plunge! Vogue was the ultimate beach babe as she lowered herself into the water

Chilling: Vogue cooled off in the azure blue waters following her tanning session on the pontoon