Elizabeth Warren will meet with Native American tribal leaders on Sunday during a trip to Oklahoma as she continues to make amends for her claims to American Indian heritage that turned out to be marginal, at best.

Representative from 40 federally recognized tribes in the state were invited to the private round table meeting with Warren, but a person familiar with the schedule told The Washington Post that only about 12 tribes indicated they will attend by Tuesday evening.

The meeting will take place in Tulsa during Warren's first trip to her home state of Oklahoma as a presidential candidate – and she will host a town hall meeting in Oklahoma City later that evening.

Warren's outreach is just the latest in a more than year-long atonement for using claims of Native American heritage when applying for different academic and professional positions in the past.

Elizabeth Warren will meet with tribal leaders from at least a dozen Native American tribes during her weekend visit to her home state of Oklahoma

The visit is a continuation of her more than year-long atonement for making claims to Native American heritage in her academic and professional life – which she then attempted to further prove in releasing DNA results last year that showed she is likely only 1/1,024th Native American

Her popularity within the Native American community took a nose dive in October 2018 when she released a DNA test that revealed that she is only somewhere between 1/64th and 1/1,024th Native American.

She released the results following a challenge from Donald Trump, who continuously referred to the Massachusetts progressive senator as 'Pocahontas.'

Trump pledged at a really in 2018 that he would donate $1 million to a charity of Warren's choosing if she took a DNA test and the results 'shows you're an Indian.'

Despite the unimpressive results, Warren told Trump at the time he could 'send the check to the National Indigenous Women's Resource Center.'

Both before and after the results were released, Trump mocked Warren, claiming he has more American Indian blood than she does.

Those efforts to gain more popularity in the Native American community and the release of the DNA results coincided with her Senate reelection and her first moves toward announcing her bid for president.

Donald Trump made Warren a part of his rallies in 2018 when it became clear she was likely to launch a bid for president. He called her 'Pocahontas' and taunted her for her claims to Native American heritage by claiming he has more American Indiana blood than she does

Warren has continued to try and highlight issues important to Native Americans as part of her campaign, and has remained blunt about her mistake in claiming aboriginal heritage after receiving widespread backlash for lauding her DNA test results as a win.

Some tribal leaders have signalled, according to the Post, that they will be meeting ahead of Sunday to decide if they will send a representative to meet with Warren at the round table.

Throughout her life, Warren has identified herself in her academic and professional career as Native American.

In 1986 she listed her race as 'American Indian' on her registration card for the State Bar of Texas and listed herself as a minority in the Association of American Law Schools directory from 1986-1994.

While teaching at the University of Pennsylvania she had her race changed from white yo Native American, according to university records, and in 1995, after she was hired by Harvard Law School, she requested they list her heritage as Native American.

Warren, however, has claimed that she never received preferential hiring or treatment due to her claims to American Indian status.