A resident at a senior care facility in Rhode Island killed one female staff member and injured two others before taking his own life on Thursday morning.

Westerly Police Chief Shawn Lacey said the 66-year-old gunman killed a 47-year-old employee at the Babcock Village apartment complex and injured two others, a 38-year-old worker and a 66-year-old resident. All three victims are women.

The gunman then killed himself. He was found dead in his apartment from a self-inflicted gunshot wound, Lacey said.

One of the victims is in critical condition at Westerly Hospital and is being transported to Yale New Haven Hospital in Connecticut, according to Lacey. The other is undergoing surgery at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence.

Scroll down for video

Rhode Island State Police walk across the street in front of the Babcock Village apartments, Thursday where a shooting at the affordable housing complex for elderly and disabled left at least one person dead and two others injured

State police say three people were shot in Rhode Island Thursday. The scene is pictured

Reports of gunfire at the Babcock Village apartments prompted Westerly public schools, Westerly Hospital and some nearby business into lockdown as a precaution

The shooting happened in Westerly, a town along the Connecticut state line

Reports of gunfire prompted Westerly public schools, Westerly Hospital and some nearby business into lockdown as a precaution Thursday morning. Police lifted the lockdown at around 12:45 p.m.

The name of the suspect and the victims has not been released but police said they located the shooter using surveillance video.

Officers confirmed the gunman was known to them.

State Police Col. James Manni said authorities are still investigating what might have prompted the shooting, including any issues the man might have had with staff. He said a single handgun was recovered at the scene.

Emergency crews rushed to the scene at around 10:30am local time. Images from the scene show a heavy police presence surrounding the housing complex.

One local worker told NBC: 'We heard sirens, a ton of sirens because we're just down the street from it. So, we locked down. We have quarries and woods behind our shop, so we're just getting ready for whatever.'

Westerly Public Schools had said on Facebook: 'All schools remain locked down. There is no verifiable threat to any buildings. We are in ongoing communication with WPD and will lift the lockdown at their direction.'

They later added: 'Lockdown has been lifted per Westerly Police.'

Congressman for Rhode Island David Cicilline tweeted: 'Closely monitoring the situation in Westerly. Keeping the victims and first responders in my thoughts.'

Law enforcement officials from Rhode Island, Connecticut and Massachusetts assisted in the response.

The name of the suspect and the victims has not been released but police said they located the shooter using surveillance video. Officers confirmed the gunman was known to them

The incident took place at Babcock Village in Westerly, pictured, on Thursday

The owner of the complex, Property Advisory Group & Affordable Housing Strategies, Inc said in a statement: 'We are shocked and saddened that this tragedy has occurred.

'Our priority, as always, is the safety of our residents and staff.

'We are working with law enforcement to address this situation, and further questions should be referred to the Westerly Police and Rhode Island State Police.'

Police held a press conference Thursday afternoon where they confirmed the gunman and one victim had died in the shooting