She is regularly spotted wearing her signature sophisticated hairdo.

Yet Victoria Beckham has confessed that the reason behind her iconic bun 'on the top of her head' is because she can't do her own hair.

The fashion designer, 45, candidly discussed her lifestyle secrets during a festive make-up tutorial for her Victoria Beckham Beauty line with Lisa Eldridge.

Scroll down for video

Candid: Victoria Beckham candidly discussed her lifestyle secrets during a festive make-up tutorial for her Victoria Beckham Beauty line with Lisa Eldridge

During the video, Victoria and Lisa, 45, who gave themselves makeovers for the fashion designer's Christmas party, both admitted that although they can do their own make-up... they can't style their own hair.

Victoria said: 'I can't do my own hair! I reckon 99% of the time I wash my hair, hold my head upside down, rough dry, I literally get a hair bubble and stick it in a bun on the top of my head.

'That's how I go to work every single day as I just cannot do my hair!'

Confessions: The fashion designer, 45, admitted in the video that the reason behind her iconic bun 'on the top of her head' is because she can't do her own hair

Signature look: Victoria said: 'I can't do my own hair! I reckon 99% of the time I wash my hair, hold my head upside down, rough dry, I literally get a hair bubble and stick it in a bun on the top of my head.' (pictured in October with her bun)

The Spice Girls sensation also admitted that she can't leave the house without her eyebrows and lips drawn on, she joked: 'I can't even look at myself without my lip liner on!'

Victoria added: 'We cannot leave the house without eyebrows. And another thing, I can't believe I left the house without - and I can't believe I haven't got it on, is this' to which Lisa added: 'Oh, your lips!'

The star then produced her Bitten Lip Tint as she revealed the secrets behind her 'fuller lip'.

Victoria explained that she applies the lip tint to dry lips so it 'sucks it up and absorbs it', she added: 'Making sure I don't forget the bits inside my mouth as well!'

Secrets: The Spice Girls sensation also admitted that she can't leave the house without her eyebrows and lips drawn on, she then revealed the secrets behind her 'fuller lip' using her Bitten Lip Tint

The star revealed that she then goes around the outside and inside part of her lip with a pencil, defining her cupid's bow before drawing a straight line across it which gives her the perfect nude 'fuller lip' look.

Victoria admitted that she's usually always in a rush and never has time to get ready as she joked about her 'windscreen wiper' technique for applying her smokey eye shadow look.

She said: 'I never have that much time to get ready, I'm usually in a rush for something. Normally rushing to work or rushing to pick the kids up!'

During the festive make-up tutorial, Victoria insisted that you can wear as much glitter as you want during Christmas.

Busy bee: Victoria admitted that she's usually always in a rush and never has time to get ready as she joked about her 'windscreen wiper' technique for applying her smokey eye shadow look

Getting ready in a hurry: She said: 'I never have that much time to get ready, I'm usually in a rush for something. Normally rushing to work or rushing to pick the kids up!'

She said: 'You can never wear too much glitter especially at Christmas time. I like to call it, turning the Christmas lights on!'

While the star also revealed what she has bought husband David and their four children - Brooklyn, 20, Romeo, 17, Cruz, 14, and Harper, eight - for Christmas.

Victoria joked: 'What do you buy David Beckham? He has everything!'

She added: 'So I bought him a jigsaw puzzle with a picture of me... a giant picture of me, no joke, a picture of the kids. It's a really complicated puzzle with thousands of pieces.

Sparkles: During the festive make-up tutorial, Victoria insisted that you can wear as much glitter as you want during Christmas

It's Christmas! She said: 'You can never wear too much glitter especially at Christmas time. I like to call it, turning the Christmas lights on!'

'He loves those things, he loves Lego. I think a jigsaw puzzle, it was actually a friend of mine, Kim, who suggested it. It's the most unlikely present. You can get really complicated ones, David will probably be doing this till next Christmas!

'Realistically, he will stay up all night and get it done. When he does the Lego, he is literally there all night. Honestly, no joke, that Harry Potter Lego was really quite challenging!'

The star has previously teased David over his Lego making after he spent days finishing their daughter Harper's Hogwarts castle and even joking it was 'ruining her life' over the summer.

Victoria added that she has nearly done all her festive shopping, she said: 'A few little bits and bobs, I normally leave too much of it to the last minute just because of being so busy. The kids, more or less sorted, David has got his puzzle.'

Family: While the star also revealed what she has bought husband David and their four children - Brooklyn, 20, Romeo, 17, Cruz, 14, and Harper, eight - for Christmas

Earlier this year, the star released her clean-beauty make-up collection, Victoria Beckham Beauty, as she expanded her business repertoire beyond her clothing line.

The range aims to offer an 'inclusive' collection of clean, high performance products for women of different skin types and ages.

The songstress has forged a fruitful stint in the spotlight for over two decades, and as she's dominated both the music and fashion industries, Victoria has insisted 'owning who I am' has played a key role in maintaining her successful career.

Tease: The star has previously teased David over his Lego making after he spent days finishing their daughter Harper's Hogwarts castle and even joking it was 'ruining her life' over the summer

'There’s something really liberating about embracing who I am at 45-years-old and owning it, feeling content', she told Glamour UK.

The style maven added that creating her new cosmetic line has helped her self-confidence: 'Doing beauty has really helped with that – it’s been very liberating.

'I want to spread the word that everybody should feel like the best version of themselves. To look after what you have. I want to tell people to own who you are. Yes, we – and I – have wrinkles, and that’s OK!'

You can watch the full Victoria Beckham make-up tutorial, featuring products from victoriabeckhambeauty.com, on her YouTube channel, available now.