Advertisement

Hundreds of shoppers have flocked to Sydney's fish markets to snap up seafood staples in a last-minute dash before Christmas Day.

A 36-hour frenzy kicked off at Sydney Fish Market in Pyrmont which opened its doors at 5am on Monday and will not close until 5pm Tuesday.

About 100,000 people are expected to buy 700 tonnes of seafood, including 130 tonnes of prawns, that are selling for up to $50 a kilo, with an extra $10 fee if customers choose to have them shelled and their heads removed.

Drought conditions have led to a rise in prices after the number of jumbo prawns dropped due to less bugs and food being washed out of the waterways.

Christmas rush: Employees help people buy their Christmas Day seafood during the annual 36-hour seafood marathon at Sydney Fish Market in Pyrmont

About 100,000 people are expected to buy 700 tonnes of seafood, including 130 tonnes of prawns, selling for up to $50 a kilo

A crowd of people wait to buy their Christmas Day seafood during the annual 36-hour seafood

'The bigger sizes are hard to come by because there is not as much water coming into their areas, so they are not growing as quick,' Fishmonger Frank Chrisafis told The Daily Telegraph.

'There are still plenty of small and medium prawns and we are getting a lot of that fresh seafood.'

This season, king prawns are expected to be on the pricier side due to the shortage with some selling for $52 a kilo at Musumeci Seafood.

Wild green tiger prawns, also a popular choice for Christmas lunch, are being sold at the same rate.

Prices for tiger prawns are slightly cheaper at Nicholas Seafood, at $39.99 a kilo.

Drought conditions have led to a rise in prices after the number of jumbo prawns dropped due to less bugs and food being washed out of the waterways

Prawn prices have risen to $50 a kilo, with added fees if they are shelled. Above tiger prawns are being sold slightly cheaper at Nicholas Seafood, at $39.99/kg

Employees transport seafood to be sold during the annual 36-hour seafood marathon on Monday

'Prawns and oysters are always favourites at Christmas time and people will be glad to know that supply is plentiful for both of those items and prices are comparable to last year,' Market spokeswoman Stephanie Margrain said.

The market's executive trading manager Gus Dannoun told the publication 'biggest doesn't always mean the best as medium and small sizes are the ones to go for.'

Small to medium sized prawns can be purchased for $20 to $30 a kilogram at the market.

But customers can also opt for a more affordable option at their local Coles, which will sell approximately 600 tonnes of prawns in the five days leading up to Christmas Day.

Coles' Fresh Australian cooked black tiger prawns are the supermarket's most popular, and are priced at around $27 per kilo.

The market's executive trading manager Gus Dannoun told the publication 'biggest doesn’t always mean the best as medium and small sizes are the ones to go for'

A crowd of people wait to buy their Christmas Day seafood on Monday

An assortment of seafood being sold for Christmas Day during the annual 36-hour seafood marathon at Sydney Fish Market in Pyrmont, Sydney, on Monday

Fellow market spokesman Alex Stollznow said shoppers should look at the eyes of fish to determine how fresh they are.

'The eyes of a fish should be clear and full.

'If it looks nice it probably is, but a closer inspection for seafood is always recommended. If you smell it and it's bad on the nose, then that seafood is not fresh and steer clear of it.'