A former Labour MP has been awarded £75,000 in damages by a judge after winning a libel battle against hard-left website Skwawkbox and the Unite union.

Anna Turley – who lost her seat in Redcar, North Yorkshire, in the General Election on December 12 – sued Unite and blogger Stephen Walker.

Ms Turley said a 2017 article on Mr Walker's Skwawkbox blog, which contained a press statement from Unite, libelled her by conveying the meaning that she had acted dishonestly when submitting an application to join the union.

She also said Unite had misused her private information.

Anna Turley – who lost her seat in Redcar, North Yorkshire, in the General Election on December 12 – sued Unite and blogger Stephen Walker.

Unite bosses and Mr Walker fought the case and said Ms Turley had been dishonest and was not fit to be an MP.

They said the article was true or justified in the public interest.

Mr Justice Nicklin, who oversaw a High Court trial in London in November, ruled in Ms Turley's favour on Thursday.

The judge concluded that publication of the article caused 'serious harm' to Ms Turley's reputation, and rejected allegations that Ms Turley had been dishonest.

After the ruling, Ms Turley said that launching the action had given her no pleasure, but she no choice.

Lawyers representing Unite bosses and Mr Walker said they aimed to appeal.

The article related to a Unite membership application Ms Turley made in December 2016.

Steven Walker, (right), who has kept his identity hidden, is behind left wing blog Skwawkbox – which reported false allegations that the government gagged the media over the Grenfell tragedy

Walker, left, a father of two, also published false claims that Theresa May was being investigated by Cabinet Office for 'conflict of interest on Brexit'

Mr Walker is sales director and CEO of a company called Foojit, which provides mailing solutions to the NHS. He has appeared on BBC with his face blurred to hide his identity

Mr Justice Nicklin heard that Ms Turley had applied to be a Unite member under a Community membership category. The Community section was aimed at people not in paid employment and cost 50p a week.

A barrister representing Unite said Ms Turley had been willing to 'conceal, mislead and deceive'.

Anthony Hudson QC said she wanted to vote against Unite general secretary Len McCluskey in an election without being noticed and without the union knowing she was an MP.

Ms Turley said the Skwawkbox article made 'false and defamatory' allegations about her and impugned her honesty.

'I am very pleased with today's verdict,' she said.

'It gave me no pleasure to undertake this action, but the accusations were so serious and damaging to my reputation that I had no choice but to defend myself through the courts.'

A Unite spokeswoman said Unite bosses were 'very disappointed' with the decision.

Lawyers representing Ms Turley told the judge, after he delivered his verdict, that she would collect more than £80,000 in total.

They said Ms Turley had offered to settle for £25,000 but her offer had been rejected.

As a result of that, Unite and Mr Walker had agreed to add £7,500 – 10% – to the damages award.

Mr Walker, a father of two, is the sales director and CEO of a company called Foojit, which provides mailing solutions to the NHS

Mr Walker posed as an anonymous, left wing blogger who reported false claims that the Government was gagging the media over the Grenfell fire disaster.

Mail Online later revealed that he is in fact a corporate CEO who sells private services to the NHS.

He runs the influential website Skwawkbox, which published false allegations that the government was concealing details of Grenfell, that went viral.

Mr Walker reported claimed that officials had placed a D-notice - an official request to editors not to publish sensitive information - on the real number of deaths in the blaze.

No government D-notice had been ordered. The story was picked up by two more news sites before going viral on social media.

Mr Walker, a father of two, is the sales director and CEO of a company called Foojit, which provides mailing solutions to the NHS.

In 2015, he joined forces with two other entrepreneurs and invested £400,000 in high tech equipment to set up the company.

Foojit made money from the NHS by providing its mailing system to the Levenshulme Health Clinic in Manchester.

Skwawkbox regularly criticises NHS privatisation and the blog's header motif includes a depiction of the NHS logo.

Labour MP John Mann told MailOnline: 'Skwawkbox is not a credible or decent media outlet. They make it up as they go along. They have no credibility. It is a nasty, pernicious outlet.

'The way Steve Walker has been hiding his identity like some sort of Russian mobster is cowardly. It is totally indefensible that he influences UK politics while hiding his identity.

'He absolutely needs to be exposed. We need to know who he is and what his motivation is. The internet needs to be regulated, just as the press is regulated.'