Jackie Kennedy once said, 'Pearls are ­always appropriate.'

In the 1960's the former first lady frequently wore a triple strand necklace featuring 129 European glass faux pearls hand-knotted on silk cords.

Unfortunately, overtime, pearls lost their appeal with the style set, earning a conventional and old fashioned reputation.

Fast forward to 2019 and men like Harry Styles and Billy Porter are accessorizing with the retro bauble.

Statement maker: Harry Styles was seen leaving BBC Radio One on Wednesday December 18 wearing a t-shirt and a strand of pearls

Always appropriate: In the 1960's the former first lady frequently wore a triple strand necklace featuring 129 European glass faux pearls hand-knotted on silk cords

Harry Styles was seen leaving BBC Radio One on Wednesday December 18 wearing a t-shirt he collaborated on with Gucci designer Alessandro Michele.

The limited-edition t-shirt was made with an eco-conscious material and a portion of proceeds go to the Global Fund For Women.

It was loosely tucked into a pair of high-waisted brown trousers and topped with a creme and navy plaid jacket.

The 'Sign Of The Times' singer completed his eclectic look with white sneakers and a strand of pearls. Leave it to Harry to effortlessly rock an accessory traditionally worn my women.

Head to toe: the t-shirt t-shirt he collaborated on with Gucci designer Alessandro Michele was loosely tucked into a pair of high-waisted brown trousers and topped with a creme and navy plaid jacket

When it comes to pearl jewelry, many male celebs turn to New York-based jeweler Mckenzie Liautaud.

Mckenzie's creations are not your grandmother's pearls.

Broadway star Billy Porter has been known to slay the red carpet and this time he did it at the 'Like A Boss' Photo Call at the Whitby Hotel on December 14.

His colorfully printed ensemble was made complete with a Mckenzie Liautaud Jewelry pearl necklace and burgundy top hat.

Accessories are everything: Billy Porter's colorfully printed ensemble was made complete with a Mckenzie Liautaud Jewelry pearl necklace and burgundy top hat

Killing it: He has been known to slay the red carpet and this time he did it at the 'Like A Boss' Photo Call at the Whitby Hotel on December 14

A piece of flash: Empire star Jeremy L. Carver attended the 'Captain Marvel' screening in March looking sharp

Well dressed man: Jeremy wore a suit and pearl drop necklace by Mckenzie Liautaud

Empire star Jeremy L. Carver attended the 'Captain Marvel' screening in March looking sharp.

The 42-year old actor offset the formality of his blue two-piece suit with a white t-shirt and added edge with a silver necklace featuring a single pearl drop by Mckenzie Liautaud.

Last December, fashion designer and milliner, Ugo Mozie, attended the 2019 GQ Men Of The Year at The West Hollywood Edition wearing the same bauble by the label.

Layers: Last December, fashion designer and milliner, Ugo Mozie, attended the 2019 GQ Men Of The Year at The West Hollywood Edition wearing the same bauble

On the pulse: Having an affinity for pearls, Jay Z's protégé, Young Paris, turned to McKenzie for a couture piece

Having an affinity for pearls, Jay Z's protégé, Young Paris, turned to McKenzie for a couture piece to add to his existing stack.

The jeweler accented a strand of traditional pearls with gold African beads for the rapper who is often seen in full face white tribal makeup.

Stylist to the stars and TV personality, Robert Verde, has also been spotted on countless red carpets donning Mckenzie Liautaud pieces.

One of a kind: The jeweler accented a strand of traditional pearls with gold African beads for the rapper who is often seen in full face white tribal makeup

VIP: Stylist to the stars and TV personality, Robert Verde, has also been spotted on countless red carpets donning Mckenzie Liautaud pieces

It's not a huge surprise that fearlessly stylish men have taken a liking to pearls.

For several seasons, the women's runways have been practically awash in clothing and accessories featuring the gems.

Prabal Gurung sent models like Bella Hadid down his fall 2018 catwalk in pearl ear cuffs featuring oversize and cascading pearls, and used dramatic pearl earrings in his 2019 collection, as well.

At Erdem, a model wore a silver dress with hanging pearls, while pearl embellished handbags were all the rage at Emilia Wickstead.

Dolce & Gabbana took the look one step further, incorporating oversize headbands and jewelry with the gem into their fall 2019 collection.

Statement pieces: Prabal Gurung sent models like Bella Hadid down his fall 2018 catwalk in pearl ear cuffs featuring oversize and cascading pearls

Bigger is better: Dolce & Gabbana took the look one step further, incorporating oversize headbands and jewelry with the gem into their fall 2019 collection

Wow: Dramatic pearl earrings were included in Prabal Gurung's 2019 runway collection, as well