Singer Louise Redknapp is being sued for nearly £92,000 by a talent agency which claims she refused to pay commission from adverts and her starring role in the West End.

InterTalent, based in Fitzrovia, central London, says it was not fully paid for helping her secure a part in the Dolly Parton musical 9 to 5.

It also claims it did not receive fees from her role as an 'ambassador' for Specsavers and to advertise Harveys, the furniture retailer.

The agency is bringing the claim at Central London County Court, and claims it had a verbal agreement to represent Redknapp for almost two years, from April 2017.

InterTalent, based in Fitzrovia, central London, says it was not fully paid for helping Louise Redknapp (pictured) secure a part in the Dolly Parton musical 9 to 5

The Evening Standard reports that that it is claimed a contract was drawn up but never signed and Ms Redknapp insists she does not have to pay commission on money she received after she left the agency in January this year.

But InterTalent, run by celebrity agent Jonathan Shalit OBE, says the three deals were struck when Ms Redknapp was a client and it would be 'commercially absurd and unreasonable' for fees to be withheld because the money was received later.

InterTalent is suing for £91,870.67 of alleged unpaid fees and expenses for its staff, the paper reports.

Court papers show InterTalent say a deal for agent Adam Maskell to represent Ms Redknapp was 'orally agreed' in April 2017, and a written deal was drafted that June.

It said the activities covered were 'all of the defendant's professional activities in the broadcast, media, entertainment, publishing, performance, acting, branding, and endorsement industries.'

It also claims it did not receive fees from her role as an 'ambassador' for Specsavers (pictured)

Redknapp, who split with her ex footballer husband Jamie in 2017 and divorced in January 2018, parted ways with Merlin Elite.

The Standard reports that in November 2017 an email from her solicitor said the terms of the InterTalent deal were 'broadly acceptable to her.'

InterTalent claim that in 2018 it struck deals for Redknapp to advertise for Harveys, in the summer to be an ambassador for Specsavers, and to play the lead role in 9 To 5.

Ms Redknapp, runner-up on Strictly Come Dancing in 2016, appeared in the musical this year at the Savoy Theatre, and reprised her role between September and November on a nationwide tour.

InterTalent say she has 'refused, and has denied any liability, to pay commission on gross income received by her after January 13, 2019'

She is said to have offered £556.74 in commission for the musical deal, but argues InterTalent is 'only entitled to commission on gross income received' when she was represented by them.

The claim, by InterTalent Ltd and InterTalent Music Ltd, was lodged against Ms Redknapp in October.

Her defence to the claim is not yet available from the court, the Standard reports.

In August Redknapp jumped a red light while suffering the 'personal trauma' of her divorce from former football star Jamie, a court was told today.

The agency also claims it did not receive any money for Redknapp's partnership with furniture retailer Harveys (pictured)

The former Strictly Come Dancing star, 44, was fined £666 and handed three points after admitting running the light in her £31,000 Land Rover.

She was caught by a speed camera going through the light 1.4 seconds after it turned red.

Through her lawyer, the mother-of-two told of the strain of her divorce from football pundit husband Jamie Redknapp at Lavender Hill Magistrates' Court.

She admitted jumping a red light in her two litre diesel Evoque in the A3205 near Wandsworth bridge in south west London, at around 9.34am on November 2.

A spokesman for InterTalent told Mail Online: 'Louise Redknapp was contracted as a client to InterTalent for two years until 2018. During that time she became established as a recognised actress with West End roles in Cabaret and Dolly Parton's 9 to 5.

'At the same time she earned very substantial sums from commercial opportunities created by the company on her behalf. It is a matter of enormous regret to InterTalent that it has been left with no option but to take legal action to secure commissions running to six figures which are owed in respect of its successful representation of Louise.'