Advertisement

The Christmas getaway has begun in earnest for almost 5 million Britons who face hour-long bumper-to-bumper delays as roads become jammed with people heading overseas for the festive period.

Photographs taken on late Thursday afternoon show mile-long traffic jams on the M25 as commuters escape to warmer climes with Canary Islands, Cape Verde and Morocco among the most popular destinations, a study suggests.

An estimated five million UK holidaymakers are embarking on an overseas break during the festive period, according to a travel trade association.

The Great Escape! The Christmas getaway has begun in earnest for almost 5 million Britons who face hour-long bumper-to-bumper delays as roads become jammed with people heading overseas for the festive period. Wet weather and heavy traffic on the M25 near Dartford in Kent this afternoon as people make an early getaway for the Christmas holiday season

Travel chaos: Traffic building up on the A14 near Cambridge on Thursday as the Christmas getaway starts. Passengers trying to get to Gatwick by train on Thursday faced delays and cancellations for around eight hours due to a lighting failure at the airport's railway station

An estimated five million UK holidaymakers are embarking on an overseas break during the festive period, according to a travel trade association. An estimated five million UK holidaymakers are embarking on an overseas break during the festive period, according to a travel trade association

Motorists have been warned to expect long tailbacks on some of the country's busiest roads as people embarking on an early Christmas getaway combine with commuter traffic

It reported strong booking numbers for short-haul winter sun destinations such as the Canary Islands, Cape Verde, Morocco, Turkey and Egypt, while the long-haul market has seen high demand for Dubai and Goa.

Geneva is a popular destination for those seeking a more traditional Christmas experience, with favourite locations for spending New Year's Eve abroad including Amsterdam, Dublin and Berlin.

Abta chief executive Mark Tanzer said: 'Christmas and New Year are always very busy times with millions heading off for a winter sun break, guaranteed snow or to spend quality time with friends and family.

'The roads and public transport will as always be very busy so leave a little extra time to get to your departure port without the stress.'

Three stretches of motorway identified as having the longest expected delays are M6 north J5 Sutton Coldfield to J10A Wolverhampton (delays of 57 minutes)

M25 clockwise J15 for M4 to J19 Watford (delays of 46 minutes)

M1 south J16 Northampton West to J6 Watford (delays of 43 minutes)

Passengers trying to get to Gatwick by train on Thursday faced delays and cancellations for around eight hours due to a lighting failure at the airport's railway station.

Motorists have been warned to expect long tailbacks on some of the country's busiest roads as people embarking on an early Christmas getaway combine with commuter traffic.

A survey by RAC suggested 4.7 million leisure trips by car will be taken on Friday.

RAC patrol of the year Ben Aldous warned that 'bumper-to-bumper traffic on some motorways and major A-roads is going to be near-guaranteed', adding that unsettled weather means many people face 'pretty unpleasant drives'.

Motorists are advised to delay journeys on major roads until after 8pm to avoid the worst of the traffic.