Crackers are an essential part of the Christmas dinner table. However, most of us really don't need a plastic whistle, thimble, ruler or a throwaway corny joke.

Thankfully, there are crackers that will not only add a bang to festive celebrations but will provide something useful or entertaining for all of the guests.

From gin and hand creams to balloon models, we've selected eight cracker sets that contain something that will make Christmas 2019 memorable, kickstart conversations and encourage your group to stay together at the table for a little longer.

Kuckoo Crackers Balloon Modelling Christmas Crackers, £11.95 for six

There will be guaranteed giggling around the table with some Kuckoo balloon modelling crackers.

These crackers are fun to look at with their bright colours and polka dot design and even more entertaining once they're pulled. All contain a balloon pump, four modelling balloons and a step-by-step guide detailing how to make a number of balloon models as well as a paper crown and a joke.

The goal is for your crowd to make a balloon hat, rabbit, butterfly, dog and octopus among other things. Just don't over inflate the balloons because they will pop!

Buy now on Amazon

Luxury G&T Christmas Crackers, £39.99 for six

If your festive gathering is adults only, these crackers will give guests a little pick-me-up after their turkey dinner.

Combining six of the UK's finest craft gins, a perfectly sized serving of premium tonic and stylish cream, blue and gold coloured packaging with the slogans 'Gingle Bells' and 'Merry Ginmas', these will put a smile on people's faces as soon as they spot them.

Inside the crackers are 50ml bottles of 58 Gin, Batch Gin, Boatyard Double Gin, Manchester Raspberry Infused Gin, Nelson's Gluggle Jug Gin, Salcombe Gin Rosé Sainte Marie along with a festive hat and joke.

Buy now at Craft Gin Club

Cowshed Hand And Lip Crackers, £72 for six

Both men and women need hand cream and lip balm, especially at this time of year. Cowshed's Refresh Hand Cream and Natural Lip Balm keep dryness at bay, enriching hands and lips with the nutrients they need to stay healthy and moisturised in the cold. The hand cream smells truly luxurious with essences of grapefruit, lavender and coriander.

Decorated with illustrations by botanical artist Katie Scott, these crackers will stand out on any dinner table. Plus, they'll be no squabbling over the contents as each one is exactly the same.

Buy now at Cowshed

Smythson's Luxury Crackers, £195 for six

Who doesn't love some new stationery at Christmas time?

These crackers will be the centerpiece of each setting with their lime yellow, pink, red, sea green, burnt orange and emerald colours, all featuring the Smythson brand name in gold.

Inside is just as special as the outside with a unique Smythson Wee notebook along with a festive paper hat and joke. These notebooks all have a lambskin cover and 96 pages of gilt-edged pale blue lightweight paper and are sure to be treasured by your guests for months after the gathering.

Buy now at Smythson

Charbonnel Et Walker Chorus Line Crackers, £45 for six

Save on the petits fours by giving your dinner party guests some luxury Charbonnel et Walker chocolate crackers.

These are embellished with male and female performers but the real showstopper is what's inside. Each cracker holds three sumptuous truffles with Milk Sea Salt Caramel and Milk Praline Sea Salt Caramel flavours.

However, don't hold your breath waiting for these crackers to make a snapping sound. These ones do not pop because the chemical mechanism that causes crackers to make a noise isn't recommended to be used close to food products.

Buy now at Charbonnel et Walker

Celebration Crackers With Reindeer Racing Game, £18.95 for six

Will you have a competitive crowd around your Christmas table? They'll love these reindeer racing crackers that will enable them to have a game without expanding too much energy.

The Santa and Mrs Claus designs give an indication that these crackers are full of fun and not to be taken too seriously. Each one contains a wind up reindeer that can be lined up on the table or floor for a race. Add an extra edge by agreeing that the winner gets a prize and the loser has to do a forfeit or dare.

Buy now at Amazon

Petersham Nurseries Eco-Friendly Christmas Crackers, £58 for six

The Petersham Nurseries crackers are designed for those who care about the carbon footprint of their Christmas celebrations. These six crackers standout because of their simplicity. They're made from recycled card and tied with the iconic Petersham Nurseries Indian ribbon in maroon.

Along with a jolly joke and festive hat, each contains a gift that guests will want to take home and use. These include two Petersham Nurseries Seed Packets, hand cream, a brass photo frame and a cute pen that looks like a leek.

Buy now at Petersham nurseries

Ridley's Charades Christmas Crackers, £28 for six

With a vibrant geometric pattern, the Ridley's Charades cracker set adds a classy touch to a table setting.

However, be prepared for things to descend into chaos as the sleek exterior of these crackers hides charade cards. They'll encourages everyone to get out of their comfort zone and out of their seat to act out the relevant charade.

Guests will be on their toes as they rush to guess the answers correctly before anyone else. Add a competitive element by awarding a prize to the person who identifies the most.

Buy now at Selfridges

Check out our discount section for Christmas deals and offers.

MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.