Zac Goldsmith will be made a life peer and allowed to retain his ministerial position, Downing Street has announced.

The Environment Minister lost his Richmond Park seat to the Liberal Democrats' Sarah Olney last week - with his support for Brexit believed to have played a key role in his defeat.

Goldsmith, who lost his seat to the Lib Dems by 7,766 votes, is close friends with Boris Johnson's girlfriend Carrie Symonds.

Symonds campaigned for his re-election and said she was 'gutted' at his defeat.

Boris Johnson also campaigned for Goldsmith in his failed bid to be London Mayor in 2016, when he lost to Sadiq Khan after a controversial campaign.

Zac Goldsmith, a close personal friend of Carrie Symonds, has been made a life peer (pictured are Ms Symonds and Mr Goldsmith with Sajid Javid)

Downing Street announced today that Mr Goldsmith, who lost his Richmond Park seat will be made a life peer and allowed to keep his job as Environment Minister

Ms Symonds shared this tweet after Mr Goldsmith lost his Richmond Park seat to Liberal Democrat Sarah Olney

The appointment is expected to spark yet more accusations of cronyism after Johnson kept resigned MP Nicky Morgan in the Cabinet as Culture Secretary by making her a life peer.

Downing Street said: 'The Rt Hon Zac Goldsmith has been confirmed as a Minister of State (unpaid) at the Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and the Department for International Development.

'The Queen has been pleased to signify Her intention of conferring a peerage of the United Kingdom for Life on Zac Goldsmith.'

His appointment comes after Culture Secretary Nicky Morgan retained her Cabinet post and was made a life peer as well.

However it is thought she will only keep the job temporarily until a wider reshuffle early next year.

Jon Trickett MP, Labour's Shadow Cabinet Minister, commenting on Boris Johnson appointing Zac Goldsmith to the Lords, said:

'It says everything you need to know about Boris Johnson's respect for democracy that he has ignored the voters of Richmond Park and appointed Goldsmith to government.

The Prime Minister's partner, with dog Dilyn, is a close friend of Mr Goldsmith and campaigned for him during the election

'The public deserve better than a government appointed by 'jobs for mates'.

'At a time when the Conservatives are investigating racism in their party, they've appointed the person who ran an overtly racist campaign against Sadiq Khan. Zac Goldsmith is not fit to hold any government position.'

Mr Goldsmith's Richmond Park seat was held by Ms Olney for six months between December 2016 and June 2017 when he triggered a by-election after quitting the Tories to fight Heathrow expansion as an independent candidate.

The 44-year-old had held the seat for the Tories since 2010, securing a majority of 23,000 in 2015, but lost to his Lib Dem rival by 18,638 to 20,510 after the party fought a successful anti-Brexit campaign.

The scion of the eponymous banking dynasty clawed back the constituency by the thinnest of margins, just 45 votes, in the snap election of 2017 after returning to the Conservative fold.

The 2017 result was finally called at around 7am after multiple recounts.

Mr Goldsmith was rewarded for his change of heart with the position of environment minister in Boris Johnson's government.

But staunchly pro-Brexit Mr Goldsmith was always an awkward fit in a constituency that voted 72% Remain in the EU referendum.

At the December 2019 election, Ms Olney polled 34,559 votes compared to Mr Goldsmith's 26,793 on a turnout of 79% of the electorate.