A paralysed former builder has lost a High Court bid to challenge the law on assisted dying.

Paul Lamb, who previously lost a right-to-die case in the Supreme Court in 2014, asked the court to consider allowing a fresh challenge to go ahead.

The 63-year-old, from Leeds, argued the current law, which bans assisted suicide under threat of up to 14 years' imprisonment, is discriminatory and breaches his human rights.

His lawyers told the court that, while an able-bodied person can end their life if they wish, those with severe disabilities cannot.

But ruling in London today, two leading judges said his case was 'unarguable' and should not proceed to a full hearing.

Paul Lamb, who is paralysed, told the court that, while an able-bodied person can end their life if they wish, those with severe disabilities cannot

Lord Justice Dingemans and Mrs Justice Elisabeth Laing said a number of previous cases on the 'immensely sensitive' issue have concluded the issue of assisted dying is a matter for Parliament and not the courts.

The judges said the rulings in cases including those of Diane Pretty, Tony Nicklinson and Noel Conway all found that the interference with their human rights was 'justified'.

Mrs Justice Laing said allowing exemptions to the law on assisted dying would remove protection of 'very vulnerable people', some of whom would not wish to take their own lives but may be subjected to 'pressure' to do so.

Mr Lamb, who needs round-the-clock care, was severely injured in a car accident in 1990 and has no function below his neck, apart from limited movement in his right arm.

In a statement in May, he said: 'I am paralysed from the neck down and live in a state of constant pain.

'In the future my suffering will inevitably become too much to bear. When that happens, I want to be able to control and choose the circumstances of my death.

'As the law stands, my only option would be to die through the inhumane process of dehydration and starvation. This situation cannot be allowed to continue.

'Five years ago, I asked our courts to give me the right to control my own death and they told me to wait.

'Since then I have watched and waited as new evidence has emerged and progressive countries have given millions of others the choice I have asked for.

'And still the UK Parliament has done nothing. I have no option but to ask the court to intervene again. I need them to help me, and many others in my position, to end this cruel and discriminatory law.'

His barrister, Philip Havers QC, told the court that discrimination to Mr Lamb as a result of the law is 'very grave' and not being able to end his life means he faces 'many more years of unbearable suffering'.

He said: 'It is important one remembers that is the consequence of the law as it stands, and the discrimination arises out of a grave disability, so the discrimination adds insult to injury.'

Mr Lamb's case was supported by Humanists UK and he was represented by law firm Leigh Day.

He previously brought a case at the Court of Appeal, Supreme Court and the European Court of Human Rights alongside Jane Nicklinson, the widow of Tony Nicklinson, who took up her husband's legal fight after he died.

Two leading judges at the High Court said his case was 'unarguable' and should not proceed to a full hearing

Mr Nicklinson, from Melksham, Wiltshire, who suffered locked-in syndrome after a catastrophic stroke while on a business trip to Athens in 2005, died aged 58, days after his right-to-die challenge was rejected by the High Court in 2012.

Mr Lamb did not attend the hearing as he was in hospital.

Robert Ince, a spokesman for the campaign group My Death, My Decision, said: 'We are extremely disappointed that the courts have once again failed to support the human rights of Paul and give hope to many like him who suffer intolerably.

'New evidence from progressive countries including Canada has demonstrated that a transparent and robust set of safeguards is the best way to protect everyone, and that compassion need not come at the expense of protecting others.

'Nearly 90% of the public now believe adults facing incurable suffering deserve to be treated with respect, dignity and compassion - but this cannot happen until the law changes.'