Petra Eccelstone's fiancé Sam Palmer has posted a series of romantic snaps of the couple to celebrate her 31st birthday.

The art gallery director, 35, shared two photos of the pair cuddling close and another of them locking lips as he wrote a sweet tribute to Petra.

Alongside the post, he wrote: 'Happy birthday to the most gorgeous,spectacular, amazing woman I am lucky enough to call my fiancée.

Sweet: Petra Eccelstone's fiancé Sam Palmer, 35, has posted a series of romantic snaps of the couple to celebrate her 31st birthday

'@Petraecclestoneofficial thank you for being the best mother and partner me and the kids could ever wish for. We love you eternally baby, enjoy your special day as you deserve it.'

Petra quickly commented on the snap and thanked her soon-to-be husband for his kind words.

She wrote: 'Love you baby and thank you for making me feel special and loved every day, not just today.'

Meanwhile, Petra's older sister Tamara shared a sweet throwback photo of Petra cradling her daughter Sophia to mark her younger sibling's birthday.

Romance: Sam shared two photos of the couple cuddling close and another of them locking lips as he wrote a sweet tribute to Petra

In the photo taken hours after Sophia's birth in March 2014, a devoted Petra can be seen cradling the adorable newborn who is swaddled in a pink blanket.

Tamara, 35, was every inch the proud sister as she penned a loving caption, which read: 'Happy birthday @petraecclestoneofficial auntie Petra miss you and loved you from the first time you held me.'

It comes after Petra and Sam both shared sweet snaps of her growing baby bump on Instagram.

The F1 heiress looked incredible in a dazzling pink dress which showed off her bump while Sam posted a more low-key snap with Petra in a comfy grey tracksuit.

Love: Alongside the post, he wrote: 'Happy birthday to the most gorgeous,spectacular, amazing woman I am lucky enough to call my fiancé'

Relationship: Petra thanked her fiancé for his words and said he makes her feel special every day

Petra looked sensational in the garment which clung perfectly to her bump while she snapped a selfie in her walk-in wardrobe.

Petra, who shares Lavinia, six, and twins James and Andrew, four, with her ex-husband James Stunt, is delightedly awaiting the arrival of her next child.

James and Petra are currently locked in a war of words, with the heiress lambasting her 'evil' ex-husband, Stunt, from whom she endured a high-profile acrimonious divorce in October 2017, after six years of marriage.

Devoted: Tamara Ecclestone shared a sweet throwback snap of Petra cradling her daughter Sophia to mark her younger sibling's birthday on Thursday

It was revealed last month that she is said to be 'overjoyed' at the news that she is expecting her first child with fiancé Sam. The couple, who are expected to marry next year, have told family and friends the big news following a 12-week scan.

Petra is understood to be keen to bring up the child in London and Los Angeles, where she owns lavish homes, according to reports.

Recruitment consultant Sam is the best friend of her older sister Tamara's husband Jay. Petra started dating him shortly after her divorce was finalised.

Bumping along nicely! Petra is expecting her fourth child - her first with fiancé Sam and has shared sweet snaps of her growing baby bump on Instagram

It comes after Tamara's high-security Kensington home was burgled of £50million worth of jewellery while she was on holiday in Lapland with her husband Jay Rutland, 38, and their daughter Sophia, five.

It has been revealed that police will probe whether Tamara's Instagram picture of Sophia boarding a private jet for Lapland tipped off burglars who stole her entire £50m jewellery collection on Friday.

The heiress' high security Billionaires' Row mansion was raided - hours after the social media post shared with 439,000 followers showed Sophia Ecclestone heading to the Arctic Circle with her parents.

Crime: Tamara's high-security Kensington home was burgled of £50million worth of jewellery while she was on holiday in Lapland with her husband Jay Rutland, 38, and their daughter Sophia, five

Three burglars were able to spend 50 minutes emptying safes in her 57-room £70million west London home and fled through an open window at 11.30pm.

Tamara's billionaire father Bernie told MailOnline he fears that her daughter was betrayed and said: 'Given all the security at the house, I'm assuming it was an inside job. It's an awful thing to happen just after she had left the house to go to Lapland'.

Met detectives have said they have an 'open mind around other lines of inquiry' but there have been a number of high profile cases where burglars have trawled social media to find empty mansions.

Tough times: It has been revealed that police will probe whether Tamara's Instagram picture of Sophia boarding a private jet for Lapland tipped off burglars who stole her entire £50m jewellery collection on Friday

John Terry's £5million Surrey home was burgled of £400,000 of goods after he posted family photos to 3million Instagram followers during their ski holiday to the French Alps in 2017.

Home insurers have started rejecting claims made by customers burgled if they have shared the fact that they are away on Facebook, Twitter or Instagram because it could break the 'reasonable care' clause of a policy.

The gang got away despite a guard reportedly sitting in Tamara's CCTV room at the property in Kensington, which boasts 24-hour security patrols, multiple checkpoints and armed police at either end to protect the six embassies there.

Shock: The heist at Ecclestone's house took place on one of London 's most exclusive streets, nicknamed Billionaire's Row, in Kensington, which has 24-hour security and checkpoints because of the rich residents and embassies on the road

Police will be probing if the thieves were helped by someone on the inside who knew the family were away and where their safes were hidden.

Tamara Ecclestone's extraordinary jewellery collection - and what could be missing Tamara Ecclestone is well known for her lavish and rare jewellery collection, which is believed to have decimated by burglars on Friday. Details of the entirety of her £50m collection is not known - or what has been taken - but these are the high-value items the heiress is known to own. Rings 2x diamond engagement rings - £250k each Watches Yellow gold Rolex Daytona - £50k Hublot sports watch - £100k Cartier Ballon diamond watch - up to £50,000 Earrings Multiple pairs of diamond stud, drop and hoop earrings - £50,000 per pair Bangles and bracelets Cartier bangle wedding gift from her husband Jay - £80,000 Cartier love bracelets - worth £63,000

On Monday, it was suggested that one guard had decided to leave the property shortly before the raid and another was reported to have turned off or ignored sensors in the garden.

A source told The Sun: 'CCTV shows three robbers climbing over the back fence and into the garden. There are meant to be sensors to pick up anyone entering.

'But the security guard appears to have missed it, even though he was apparently in the security room where the CCTV should be monitored.

'The other security guard had left the property to fill the family car up with petrol after 10pm. It's surprising because the car didn't need to be used at that time.

Precious earrings with 'personal meaning' and a £80,000 Cartier bangle wedding gift from her husband are believed to have vanished.

Tamara has two engagement rings, worth £250,000 each, but it is not known if these were taken. She has several sets of diamond stud earrings valued at around £50,000 per pair and a large watch collection including Rolex, Hublot and Cartier pieces worth up to £100,000 each.

Tamara has refused to let the devastating raid ruin her daughter Sophia's dream trip to Lapland and the heiress was all smiles as she frolicked in the snow with her only child before getting in a sleigh pulled by reindeer on their Christmas break in the Arctic Circle this weekend.

In a cryptic Instagram post sent from Lapland today today Tamara appeared to suggest there was an inside man, quoting Luke 8:17 from the Bible, which says: 'For there is nothing hidden that will not be disclosed, and nothing concealed that will not be known or brought out into the open'.