DETROIT (AP) - Clayton Keller was a force on both ends of the ice Sunday night, and that큦 what the Arizona Coyotes want to see from him.

The 21-year-old forward had two goals and an assist to lead Arizona to a 5-2 victory over the Detroit Red Wings.

"He's really working on the defensive part of his game, which we asked him to do," Coyotes coach Rick Tocchet said. "And when he plays good defense, the other parts of his game are really good."

Both of Keller큦 goals came off passes from linemate Nick Schmaltz.

"I think we play the game a lot like each other and we can feed off each other really well," Keller said.

Keller also set up center Carl Soderberg for a goal.

Arizona Coyotes center Carl Soderberg, right, skates with right wing Clayton Keller (9) after scoring with an assist from Keller during the second period of an NHL hockey game against the Detroit Red Wings, Sunday, Dec. 22, 2019, in Detroit. (AP Photo/Carlos Osorio)

"Carl's huge in front of the net, creating space and making it a lot easier for us to work," Keller said.

Taylor Hall and Christian Dvorak also scored for Arizona. Coyotes defenseman Oliver Ekman-Larsson had three assists.

Antti Raanta made 28 saves in Arizona큦 first game since No. 1 goalie Darcy Kuemper sustained a lower-body injury Friday during an 8-5 loss to Minnesota.

Filip Zadina and Tyler Bertuzzi scored for Detroit. Jimmy Howard stopped 40 shots after missing 10 games with a lower-body injury. He was recalled from a conditioning stint with Grand Rapids of the AHL earlier in the day.

"Our start was good until they scored," Red Wings coach Jeff Blashill said. "I thought we came out and played pretty good hockey and then they scored. Right now we큥e letting goals weigh us down."

Two goals by Keller in the first period gave the Coyotes a 2-0 lead.

He opened the scoring with 6:35 left in the first when put in a one-timer from the bottom of the right circle that Howard got a piece of. Keller큦 second goal and 10th of the season came with 3:17 remaining in the period when his wrist shot from the top of the right circle beat Howard. Both goals came off the rush.

Soderberg made it 3-0 just 39 seconds into the second period when he put in Keller큦 rebound after a turnover in front of his own net by Darren Helm. It was Soderberg큦 11th goal.

Hall got his seventh 5:41 into the third period.

Zadina thwarted Raanta큦 shutout bid at 9:59 of the third with his third goal. Dvorak scored his ninth 27 seconds later.

Bertuzzi got his fourth goal in five games and 14th of the season with 4:29 left.

NOTES: Arizona D Jordan Gross made his NHL debut and assisted on Dvorak큦 goal. ... Coyotes D Jason Demers, who has missed six games with a lower-body injury, is skating with the team and could play later this week. ... Detroit forward Robby Fabbri was fined the maximum $2,419.35 for spearing Toronto forward Alexander Kerfoot in a 4-1 loss Saturday night. ... Red Wings RW Anthony Mantha did not play after sustaining an upper-body injury Saturday when he was thrown to the ice on his head and face by Maple Leafs D Jake Muzzin.

UP NEXT

Coyotes: At the Nashville Predators on Monday.

Red Wings: At the Florida Panthers on Saturday.

___

More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports

Arizona Coyotes goaltender Antti Raanta (32) falls on the puck hit by Detroit Red Wings left wing Justin Abdelkader (8) during the first period of an NHL hockey game, Sunday, Dec. 22, 2019, in Detroit. (AP Photo/Carlos Osorio)

Arizona Coyotes right wing Clayton Keller high-fives teammates after scoring during the first period of an NHL hockey game against the Detroit Red Wings, Sunday, Dec. 22, 2019, in Detroit. (AP Photo/Carlos Osorio)

Arizona Coyotes center Carl Soderberg (34), checked by Detroit Red Wings defenseman Madison Bowey (74), watches his shot get past goaltender Jimmy Howard (35) for a goal during the second period of an NHL hockey game, Sunday, Dec. 22, 2019, in Detroit. (AP Photo/Carlos Osorio)

Detroit Red Wings left wing Justin Abdelkader (8) loses control the puck as Arizona Coyotes defenseman Oliver Ekman-Larsson (23) and center Nick Schmaltz (8) defend during the first period of an NHL hockey game, Sunday, Dec. 22, 2019, in Detroit. (AP Photo/Carlos Osorio)