This is the disturbing moment a group of young teenage boys dressed in military garb are being run through a shooting exercise at a cartel's secret camp in Mexico.

The shocking video captured alleged ranking members of La Nueva Familia Michoacana training at least a dozen youngsters to fill the roles of future sicarios.

The youngsters appear in the 17-second cellphone footage where they're seen aiming at a long distance target and unloading several rounds from their military assault weapons.

It's not clear exactly how old the boys are.

A minor was among at least a dozen who were recently filmed by purported members of a Mexican cartel as they participated in a training exercise shooting at a long distance target with military weapons. Mexican authorities contacted by DailyMail.com did not respond to comment to confirm the video's authenticity after it went viral on social media Tuesday

Suspected minor members of La Nueva Familia Michoacana took part in a shooting drill and it was all captured on video by one of the alleged cartel members and later uploaded on social media earlier this week

An older male cartel member can be seen positioning himself behind two shooters to film their training drill as they stood side-by-side on an open grass field surrounded by trees.

Several media outlets, including Milenio and Radio Formula, have reported that the training exercise took in the mountain range zone of the southeastern state of Guerrero.

As of Thursday morning, the Guerrero State Attorney General's office had not responded to DailyMail.com's request for comment.

No other state or government authorities have verified the viral video's authenticity after if surfaced on social media outlets on Tuesday.

Two minors stand side by side as they unload multiple rounds from their military assault weapons as suspected cartel members looked from afar

The footage was released just a day after two minors were identified through online pictures as active members of the dangerous criminal group.

La Nueva Familia Michoacana came into play in the late 1990's after it was founded by Carlos Rosales in the western state of Michoacán.

It was also led by Nazario 'El Chayo' Moreno, who during his teen years lived in the United States before he fled to Mexico to avoid criminal prosecution and then was killed by security forces in a gun battle in 2014.