Rylan Clark-Neal was left fuming after his snacks went missing from his dressing room before a performance of Nativity! The Musical.

The popular presenter, 31, couldn't contain his rage when he returned to his dressing room at London's Eventim Apollo on Thursday, only to discover a number of his items had mysteriously vanished.

He tweeted: 'To whomever has been in my dressing room and taken my diptyque candle, 2 nespressos, 3 bottles of Evian, a bottle of milk and eaten my caramel nibbles...

Scroll down for video

Say what? Rylan Clark-Neal was left fuming after his snacks went missing from his dressing room before a performance of Nativity! The Musical

'I hope the coffee was burnt, the milk curdles, the bottles leaked in ur bag, youre sick from the nibbles and the wick falls off.'

In a further hilarious video captured by Love Island winner Dani Dyer, the presenter ranted as he held up the empty chocolate bag while she laughed.

He captioned the clip: 'Can I get Coleen (Rooney) on this please' referencing the WAG's ongoing feud with Rebekah Vardy over allegedly leaking stories.

One fan jokingly referenced the alleged ongoing This Morning civil war writing 'It was probably Schofield' while another wrote 'Get WAGatha Christie on the case.'

Fury: The popular presenter, 31, couldn't contain his rage when he returned to his dressing room on Thursday, only to discover a number of his items had mysteriously vanished

Rylan become one of the most popular faces on TV and has gone from appearing in reality shows – he won Celebrity Big Brother in 2013 – to hosting slots on This Morning and The One Show to fronting Ready Steady Cook and Supermarket Sweep

Last month the former Big Brother's Bit On The Show host hinted at a return for the Channel 5 series as he marked the first anniversary of its ending.

Taking to Twitter, the presenter shared a montage of his time on the show, set to the music of Steps hit Love's Got A Hold Of My Heart.

Captioning the video, Rylan wrote: 'The best memories. We miss you @bigbrotheruk.

‘I know you will be back. 1 year ago today we said “see you soon” and we will. Miss you x.'

Oh no! The popular presenter, 31, couldn't contain his rage when he returned to his dressing room at London's Eventim Apollo on Thursday, only to discover a number of his items had mysteriously vanished

Rylan's insistence that the show will be back sent fans into meltdown as several commented on their excitement at a potential comeback, while others shared how much they missed it.

'we need #BBUK back in our lives it's been way too long!' commented one fan.

Despite there being no confirmation of an official return, Peter Salmon, production company Endemol Shine's chief creative officer, recently discussed the prospect of bring the show back.

He said: 'The UK is really important but there’s no news about the UK and we're really enjoying the rest period.

Oh dear: One fan jokingly referenced the alleged feud writing 'It was probably Schofield' while another wrote 'Get WAGatha Christie on the case'

'We're always constantly thinking about what's next in all of the key territories but it's having a real successful time in a number of territories and we're a global company and we embrace that.'

Speaking of global versions of the series, he added: 'There are constant conversations and exchanges of idea where we're thinking what's next. There is no territory I can't see it coming back in.'

Meanwhile, Channel 5 boss Ben Frow said that 2019 would be free of Big Brother, saying: 'I have planned for a year without Big Brother. But never say never. The contract runs out at Christmas.’

Hint hint: Last month the former Big Brother's Bit On The Show host hinted at a return for the Channel 5 series as he marked the first anniversary of its ending

Host: Taking to Twitter Rylan shared a montage of his time on the show, set to the music of Steps hit Love's Got A Hold Of My Heart

Big Brother first aired July 2000 on Channel 4, where it was presented by Davina McCall.

After 10 years on the channel and a whopping 11 series, it moved to Channel 5 in 2011 when it was fronted by former winner Brian Dowling.

Emma Willis then took the helm in 2013 and remained as host until it ended last year.