Tom Cruise has been spotted boarding a helicopter in London with a mystery woman as they enjoyed a view of the stunning capital.

The actor, 57, was in high spirits as he boarded the aircraft for a stunning ride along with his female companion.

Tom - who is set to reprise his role as Maverick in next year's Top Gun sequel - headed onto the helipad in the middle of the city, and waiting 10 minutes before the chopper set off.

Strange: Tom Cruise was in high spirits on Thursday as he boarded a helicopter for a ride over the city of London

Who is she? The Hollywood star was joined by a mystery female companion, who sported blonde bobbed hair for the outing

Tom cut a casual figure in a relaxed navy blue jumper and jeans as he boarded the helicopter with the mystery blonde.

The Mission Impossible star - who earned his pilots licence in 1994 - waited patiently on the helipad before boarding the aircraft.

Meanwhile his mystery companion, who sported blonde bobbed hair and a cosy black faux fur coat also climbed into the helicopter to get a stunning view of London.

MailOnline has contacted representatives for Tom Cruise for comment.

Out and about: Both Tom and his blonde companion were seen climbing into the helicopter as they prepared for a ride over the capital

Jovial: Having piloted helicopters in the past, Tom seemed raring to go as he got ready to take off with his companion sat in the back (seen above left)

Pretty: The mystery female was wrapped up against the December chill in a black padded coat as she headed up to the helipad

Low-key: The mystery blonde was seen heading up to the helipad with some of Tom's other pals as they prepared for the ride

Relaxed: She cut a casual figure in classic black jeans and platform boots along with her padded coat (seen above left)

Happy: Tom was also in high spirits as he headed into the side of the chopper ready to take charge of the ride

Relaxed: The Mission Impossible star cut a casual figure in a classic navy blue jumper and jeans as he headed out for the day

Tom hasn't publicly dated anyone since his split from wife Katie Holmes in 2012, which came after six years of marriage, and they are parents to daughter Suri, 13.

He did spark dating rumours with The Crown star Vanessa Kirby after they co-starred in last year's Mission Impossible: Fallout, but they were quickly denied by the actress.

Katie dated Oscar winner Jamie Foxx for several years, but the couple split over the summer.

His outing comes after the newest trailer for his long awaited sequel to Top Gun was released offering another glimpse of Tom reprising his role as Captain Pete 'Maverick' Mitchell.

Still single: Tom hasn't publicly dated anyone since his split from wife Katie Holmes in 2012, which came after six years of marriage, and they are parents to daughter Suri, 13

Coming soon: His outing comes after the newest trailer for his long awaited sequel to Top Gun was released

Exciting: The film sees Tom reprise his role as Captain Pete 'Maverick' Mitchell, and will come 36 years after the original Top Gun was released

Ready to go? Tom's companion was already perched in the aircraft as the star took his seat ready for the ride over London

The film will see Maverick summoned back to Naval Fighter Weapons School by superiors keen to exploit his experience as a United States Naval Aviator.

With McGillis's Charlotte "Charlie" Blackwood - the object of Mitchell's undying love in 1986 - curiously absent in 2019, her spot is capably filled by a new and notably younger love interest, played by Jennifer Connelly.

Whiplash star Miles Teller has also joined the cast as Lieutenant Bradley "Rooster" Bradshaw, who is the son of Antony Edwards' LTJG Nick "Goose" Bradshaw.

Busy: He is no stranger to a helicopter ride over London, having previously been spotted boarding the aircraft in August

Take off! Tom waited for 10 minutes on the helipad before the aircraft touched down so they could get ready for the ride

Amazing: He climbed into the seat with ease as he prepared to take the reigns for the fun-filled ride

The film promises to create an immersive experience and make viewers feel as though they are flying the fighter pilots themselves.

The production crew worked with IMAX cameras placed inside the cockpit of the planes with Tom and the other actors for an enhanced viewing experience.

Appearing in a recent featurette, Tom says: 'You just can't create this kind of experience unless you shoot it live. In order for us to accomplish this, we have the greatest fighter pilots in the world working with us.'

Since Top Gun, Tom has continued to thrill viewers with his action movie roles, with the last Mission Impossible being branded the best yet by fans.