Michael Bragg, 39, (pictured), who worked as an emergency room nurse at a Pennsylvania Hospital, is accused of sexually assaulting patients and recording over 200 of them

A former nurse sexually assaulted patients and secretly recorded over 200 of them - including 24 children - at a hospital in Pennsylvania, prosecutors claim.

Multiple charges were announced against Michael Bragg, 39, who worked as a nurse in UPMC Carlisle between January 2016 and April 19, 2019.

It follows his arrest in April by the Office of Attorney General for producing and possessing child pornography and aggravated indecent assault against two children.

A statement from Pennsylvania Attorney General's office said Michael Bragg, 39, also allegedly sexually assaulted a nude, intubated and unconscious woman in the hospital's emergency room, and touched the breasts of another emergency room patient.

Attorney General Josh Shapiro said in a statement: 'People who were rushed to the emergency room or needed serious medical attention were violated by this man.

'This sick sexual predator took advantage of patients when they were at their most vulnerable, in need of care.

'Thanks to the full cooperation of UPMC Carlisle, we identified all victims throughout this investigation.'

Michael Bragg, 39,was arraigned before Magisterial District Judge Susan Day in Mount Holly Springs on new charges on Thursday after being initially charged in April. He is pictured being escorted by officers

Prosecutors say he surreptitiously videotaped 206 patients at UPMC Carlisle Hospital, including nearly two dozen minors

Prosecutors say he surreptitiously videotaped 206 patients at UPMC Carlisle Hospital, including nearly two dozen minors.

The new charges against him include one count of aggravated indecent assault related to the vaginal penetration of a hospital patient.

He also faces 19 count of sexual abusing children and manufacturing of child pornography.

Others include 171 counts of invasion of privacy, 201 counts of interception, disclosure or use of wire, electronic or oral communication and one count of criminal use of a communication facility.

In April, Bragg was originally arrested by the Office of Attorney General following a search of his Buttercup Drive, Chambersburg, home where agents found secretly recorded videos of children using the bathroom there, plus other videos of child pornography.

Bragg, 39, worked as a nurse in the emergency room of UPMC Carlisle between January 2016 and April 2019

Bragg allegedly sexually assaulted a nude, intubated and unconscious woman in the hospital's emergency room, and touched the breasts of another emergency room patient

He was charged with aggravated indecent assault and indecent assault for the alleged sexual abuse of two minors.

Shapiro said agents also investigated the circumstances of videos of hospital patients in various stages of undress that were discovered on Bragg’s laptop computer, which led to his arrest.

'This was a complex, technical investigation which led to these charges being filed. But in the end, it was a simple case of standing up for victims,' AG Shapiro said.

Bragg is due to be arraigned before Magisterial District Judge Susan Day in Mount Holly Springs.

Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro branded Michael Bragg a 'sick predator' who took advantage of patients who were at their most vulnerable

The office said all charges against him are accusations as he is presumed innocent until proven guilty.

UMPC public relations director Kelly McCall told The Patriot News that the hospital is offering counseling to the victims involved and their families.

She added: 'We assure the community that we have taken measures to protect our patients.

'We engaged a professional security firm that has swept the UPMC Carlisle premises visually and electronically to ensure no recording devices were present; these sweeps came back negative, confirming no unauthorized recording devices were present.

She added that employees were trained and will receive ongoing training on reporting unauthorized recording devices they may see being utilized.