It's been just over a year since they confirmed their romance following their stint on BBC's Strictly Come Dancing.

And Joe Sugg and Dianne Buswell showcased their signature dance moves as they boogied in the sand on their festive break to her home in Australia on Thursday.

In a series of clips and snaps posted to their Instagram accounts, the YouTuber, 27, and the professional dancer, 30, showcased their fancy footwork to Men at Work's 1981 Down Under single during their time at the Lancelin Sand Dunes.

Strictly's finest: Joe Sugg and Dianne Buswell showcased their signature dance moves as they boogied in the sand on their festive break to her home in Australia on Thursday

Appearing in the great spirits, the smitten couple swayed as they let their hair down at the tourist attraction.

The red-haired beauty kept casual in a loose-fitting grey T-shirt and distressed denim shorts, rounded off with neon green trainers and circular-framed shades.

Joe opted for an equally low-key appearance in a faint red T-shirt, stone-coloured shorts and burgundy slip-on shoes.

The giddy clip - posted to Dianne's platform - captioned her posts: 'Sand is the new snow ! Great first day down under and my bestie came along @meganwragg @joe_sugg @melskilejman @buzzballz1.' [sic]

In their own world: The YouTuber, 27, and the professional dancer, 30, showcased their fancy footwork to Men at Work's 1981 Down Under single during their time at Lancelin Sand Dunes

First day back: The red-haired beauty kept casual in a loose-fitting grey T-shirt and distressed denim shorts, rounded off with neon green trainers and circular-framed shades

The pair were joined by some of the petite star's old dancer friends as they sand boarded down the dunes, with an amused Dianne sharing shots of the group before and after they took part in the activity.

The former Dancing with the Stars pro couldn't contain her delight over reuniting with her long-time friends as she documented her first day back on home turf.

Admitting he's been fairly tired since landing in his lady's hometown, the Waitress actor captioned his images: 'Beating the jet lag with a bit of sand boarding. MUST STAY AWAAAAKE' [sic].

Dianne went on to upload an image of a spiderweb, while Joe claimed he 'brought the rain' as they were caught in the wet weather.

Letting loose: The pair were joined by some of the petite star's old dancer friends as they sand boarded down the dunes

Fun-filled: The former Dancing with the Stars pro couldn't contain her delight over reuniting with her long-time friends as she documented her first day back on home turf

On the move: The group appeared relaxed during the excursion, with some of them going barefoot, while others opted for footwear

'MUST STAY AWAAAAKE': The Waitress actor admitted he's been fairly tired since landing in his lady's hometown

Creepy crawlies and rainfall: Dianne went on to upload an image of a spiderweb, while Joe claimed he 'brought the rain' as they were caught in the wet weather

Sweet treats: Later into the day, the author visited Scarborough to indulge in a iced dessert

Loved-up: Ballroom expert Dianne posted more cosy snaps with her beau and her friend Megan Wragg - who is a pro dancer DWTS Australia

Goofy: Mimicking a lit-up kangaroo, the dynamic duo put on a lively display as she jumped in front of their hotel display

Joe confirmed the couple's romance last year following the Strictly wrap party, declaring that he had 'won something a million times more special' than the famous Glitterball trophy.

The couple finished in second place behind documentary maker Stacey Dooley and her professional partner now boyfriend Kevin Clifton.

Over the summer, Joe met Dianne's parents Rina and Mark for the first time, she shared a snap of the foursome to Instagram and captioned it: 'My heart is full.'

Joe has previously gushed over his girlfriend and revealed that they FaceTime a lot due to Dianne's busy schedule.

'That’s when you know you love each other,' he told The Mirror. 'When you’re happy to FaceTime each other first thing in the morning. I’m unrecognisable – you should see my hair.'