An Iowa man is trying regain custody of a young coyote that he says has become his emotional support animal.

'This animal is a dog in a coyote's body,' said Matthew Stokes about Drifter, a pup who Stokes said was left by a coyote family that had dug a den this past spring in his backyard on the outskirts of Waterloo, Iowa.

Drifter was an orphaned pup 'looking for a pack. I became his pack,' Stokes said.

Iowa man Matthew Stokes is fighting to regain custody of his emotional support coyote pup Drifter (pictured together). The animal was taken by a wildlife rehab agency in October

Stokes said a coyote family dug a den in his backyard in the Spring, but abandoned Drifter (pictured) shortly after. Stokes has been caring for the coyote pup since then

Stokes told his neighbors that the coyote (pictured) was a small German Shepherd

Stokes told the Waterloo-Cedar Falls Courier that he was suffering at the time from a bone infection in a foot and was in danger of losing it. He said Drifter kept him going.

'I had to take care of myself. There was nobody else there to care for him. He saved my life. And I saved his life too,' Stokes said.

On his Facebook page, Coyote from Waterloo Iowa, Stokes noted that Drifter had been one of four coyote pups that had moved in to the den with two adults in May. He wrote that he kept his distance from the animals.

After about two weeks, he said that he started seeing Drifter by himself and that he then left food and water out for the abandoned pup.

Eventually, Drifter wandered up to Stokes' gazebo and laid down on the floor of it. Soon, the coyote was taking naps in Stokes' lap and meeting him at the gate when he returned home.

'He would greet me in the mornings with excitement,' Stokes wrote. 'It was like he could not show me just how happy to see me he was. He had happy tail.'

During the 10 weeks that Stokes took off from work to recover from his foot infection, the two became even better pals.

'As he grew bigger by the day so did my love for him,' Stokes wrote. 'Before I knew it, I was calling him Drifter and he was running up to me when I would call his name. We were officially a pack at that point.'

Stokes hid the fact that Drifter is a coyote, by telling neighbors that he was a little German Shepherd.

However, when Drifter got out of Stokes' property in late October and began roaming around the neighborhood, the coyote pup was corralled by a neighbor and then placed with a wildlife rehab agency.

Stokes said that he kept his distance from the coyotes after they moved into his backyard, but that Drifter's (pictured) family left him behind after two weeks

Stokes said Drifter (pictured) took naps in his lap, waited for him by the gate and showed no signs of aggression while in his care

Wildlife experts said that Drifter (pictured as a young pup) is 'not an emotional support pet' and is, in fact, a wild animal that was taken out of the wild and turned into a pet

'This is not an emotional support animal. This is a wild coyote that he took out of the wild and decided to make a pet,' said Tracy Belle, director of WildThunder Wildlife and Animal Rehabilitation and Sanctuary.

Drifter is young and seems docile, Belle said, but his adult behavior and predatory instincts have yet to kick in.

'This is not a domestic coyote, this is a wild animal,' Belle said. WildThunder's goal is to return the coyote to the wild.

'To me this feels like my child being kidnapped and put in to a small room with the possibility of them being euthanized for no justifiable reason. No toys, no warmth and no love,' Stokes wrote on Facebook of the decision to put Drifter in the wildlife rehab facility.

'Drifter does not show any type of aggressions and would not hurt anyone. He doesn't even bark or howl,' he added.

Stokes believes that Drifter 'will not make it a week' if he's put back into the wild because 'He is way to [sic] people friendly, he has become a domestic animal.'

And, 'If you were to meet him at the most he would come up to you and rollover on his back so that you could pet his belly and greet you with nothing but happiness and love,' Stokes wrote.

Stokes said he's obtained a letter from his physician that says Drifter is an emotional support animal because he helps Stokes with depression and anxiety.

He also is in the process of applying for a U.S. Department of Agriculture license to keep a dangerous animal, he said, and he's also studying a provision of Iowa law that would let him keep Drifter as an educational animal.

The coyote 'is truly my Guardian Angel. My world has been shattered since he has been picked up,' Stokes wrote, adding 'Drifter is my child, my angel, my purpose and now I am fighting for his life.'