New Guess model Sparkish bears a striking resemblance to Pamela Anderson.

And she told DailyMail.com this week that she is very happy with being compared to the Playboy model who made her mark on TV with Baywatch and Stacked.

'I definitely take it as a compliment!' said the siren who appears in the GUESS Originals Holiday Campaign alongside Victoria Britt and Douda Ka. 'She always was and still is such an icon.'

Another Pam? New Guess model Sparkish bears a striking resemblance to Pamela Anderson. And she told DailyMail.com this week that she is very happy with being compared to the Playboy model; seen in her GUESS Originals Holiday Campaign

At first blonde beauty Sparkish didn't think the two resembled each other.

But then the cover girl took a second look.

'After taking a look at some of her photo shoots from the 90’s, I do see a bit of a resemblance in our facial features,' said the star.

Similar: And she told DailyMail.com this week that she is very happy with being compared to the Playboy model who made her mark on TV with Baywatch and Stacked. Pam in early December

A good look: 'I am a big fan of Pam and one of my favorite shoots of hers was this year’s Vogue Czechoslovakia Cover,' said the budding star of the pinup

'I am a big fan of Pam and one of my favorite shoots of hers was this year’s Vogue Czechoslovakia Cover,' said the budding star.

Her new Guess campaign debuted earlier this month and has gotten excellent feedback.

And Sparkish is thrilled to be linked to the brand that has used Anna Nicole Smith, Drew Barrymore, Paris Hilton and Jennifer Lopez as models.

Flattered: 'I am a big fan of Pam and one of my favorite shoots of hers was this year’s Vogue Czechoslovakia Cover,' said the budding star

Way to go: Her new Guess campaign debuted earlier this month and has gotten good feedback

Sparkish! And Sparkish is thrilled to be linked to the brand that has used Anna Nicole Smith, Drew Barrymore, Paris Hilton and Jennifer Lopez as models

Guess gal: 'I am so appreciative of the opportunity to be part of the GUESS family. I remember passing by GUESS campaign billboards in the car when I was a kid and cannot believe I’m seeing myself on these same billboards now as an adult. I had to take a pic with it!'

Fun day: And she added the best part of shooting the campaign was re-creating a GUESS campaign from the 90’s in a movie theatre. 'I thought the location was really fun'

'I am so appreciative of the opportunity to be part of the GUESS family. I remember passing by GUESS campaign billboards in the car when I was a kid and cannot believe I’m seeing myself on these same billboards now as an adult. I had to take a pic with it!'

And she added the best part of shooting the campaign was re-creating a GUESS campaign from the 90’s in a movie theatre.

'I thought the location was really fun. They had an old black and white film playing in the empty cinema throughout the shoot which was a very private and cool experience,' she told DailyMail.com.

'This was my first shoot with the GUESS family which made this experience so much more exciting. We had so much fun on set and I definitely ate way too much popcorn!