One person is dead as devastating bushfires rage through South Australia's southeast, the Adelaide Hills, Yorke Peninsula and Kangaroo Island.

Authorities confirmed one person died when their car slammed into a tree near the scene of a blaze at Lameroo, in the state's southeast.

Three police officers and four CFS volunteers were injured in a fire at Cudlee Creek, in the Adelaide Hills, while three firefighting vehicles were burned through.

Another person feared missing in the Cudlee Creek fire has since been found safe at a local hospital.

Emergency warnings remain in place for a number of fires including Cudlee Creek, at Menzies on Kangaroo Island and at Coonalpyn in the state's southeast.

There were multiple reports of homes and other buildings going up in flames in the Cudlee Creek blaze, the largest and most damaging in the state.

Homes were destroyed at Lobethal and Woodside as the fire quickly burnt through more than 10,700 hectares of scrub inside a perimeter of almost 53 kilometres.

The CFS had more than 350 firefighters battling the fire with efforts to bring it under control largely depending on the extent of a cool change moving across the area.

Despite diligent preparations, Trevor Kerber lost his house at Woodside.

"We thought we were pretty safe, we had sprinklers and water and everything and I've cleaned the gutters and everything was right," he told Nine News.

"I had a woodshed the other side of the house, probably (six metres) from the house, and that caught fire and then the radiant heat from that just started licking the house.

Across the state, there were 500 firefighters deployed as temperatures on the firegrounds surged into the 40s from early on Friday but dropped to the mid-20s once the change moved through.

However, shifting winds brought storms and rain to some of the affected areas.

Bureau of Meteorology forecaster Matt Collopy said wind gusts of up to 80km/h could be expected.

"That means very unpredictable fire conditions," he told reporters.

A severe thunderstorm warning for damaging winds and large hailstones was in place for much of the state including Adelaide on Friday evening.

CFS Chief Officer Mark Jones said crews would continue to do their utmost to halt the spread of all the fires with the resources on hand which included extra aerial support from NSW and Victoria.

"We have the resources to do the best that we can do in what are unusually catastrophic conditions," he said.

"It's difficult to resource for the worst that nature can throw at us, but when nature throws its worst, the firefighters, volunteers and emergency responders of this state do their best."

SA Power Networks said power was disconnected at the request of the CFS for about 1700 customers affected by the Adelaide Hills fire, and has not yet been restored.

"Restoration of power will depend on when we can enter the fire grounds and what damage may have occurred within the fire area," a spokesperson said.