Charlize Theron stepped out for an evening of ballet with her two kids in Hollywood on Sunday night.

The 40 year old actress was spotted with her kids Jackson and August as they arrived at The Nutcracker ballet at the Dolby Theater in Hollywood.

The ballet plays for just four showings at the Dolby Theater, on December 20, 21, 22 and 24 before the brief run ends.

Ballet ready: Charlize Theron stepped out for an evening of ballet with her two kids in Hollywood on Sunday night

Theron stepped out with a black top under a short black jacket with a black purse slung over her shoulder.

She also wore shiny silver pants and black flat shoes as she left the parking lot to head into the ballet

The actress wore her blonde hair parted to her right as she exited the parking lot with her kids and her mother, Gerda.

Charlize's look: Theron stepped out with a black top under a short black jacket with a black purse slung over her shoulder

The actress' ballet outing comes just days after she made headlines for opening up about the night her mother Gerda shot and killed her father in 1991, when she was 15.

The actress opened up in an interview on NPR about the night her mother killed her father, when he arrived home drunk with a gun.

'My father was so drunk that he shouldn’t have been able to walk when he came into the house with a gun,' Theron said.

Opening up: The actress' ballet outing comes just days after she made headlines for opening up about the night her mother Gerda shot and killed her father in 1991, when she was 15

'My mom and I were in my bedroom leaning against the door because he was trying to push through the door,' she added.

'So both of us were leaning against the door from the inside to have him not be able to push through. He took a step back and just shot through the door three times,' Theron said.

'None of the bullets ever hit us, which is just a miracle. But in self-defense, she ended the threat,' the actress said, adding that no charges were filed against her mother since it was in self-defense.

Father's death: 'My mom and I were in my bedroom leaning against the door because he was trying to push through the door,' she added

Theron currently stars in Bombshell, which she also produces, playing former Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly.

She also returns as Cipher from The Fate of the Furious in next year's Fast and Furious 9, which hits theaters May 22, 2020.

She also stars in The Old Guard with Chiwetel Ejiofor, which is currently in post-production and slated for release in 2020.