Min Woo Lee's fanbase continues to grow after the emerging talent impressed playing partner Adam Scott on a tricky opening day at the Australian PGA Championship.

The younger brother of Australian women's No.1 Minjee is just one shot off the pace - but two better than Scott - after a four-under 68 on the Gold Coast.

Lee was two-over through five holes, but the European Tour's longest driver this year regained his composure to storm home and impress the former world No.1 and Masters champion in Scott.

The 21-year-old only became a professional in January, but has quickly turned heads, out-driving Jason Day and enjoying a private coaching session with Tiger Woods.

You can now add Scott to his admirers after the pair went toe-to-toe at Royal Pines on Thursday.

"That's what I liked most about; he's got a pretty swing and hits it a long way, but it was good to see him kind of compose himself," Scott said.

"He hung in there for a few holes after his poor start and then he composed himself and got on a bit of a roll there nicely.

"That's good qualities to see out there because, like I said, it was easy for it to really get away from you today if you just were a little bit off."

Lee rued his "rookie pro" opening five holes but said he lapped up the chance to play with Scott and fellow major winner Stewart Cink (70).

"Just a bit rushed early on ... but I'm a bit of a fighter, so it was nice to start off bad and then come off good," Lee said.

"I think early on I didn't really take the opportunities because there's a big crowd and I'm not really used to it.

"It was pretty calm (conditions) this morning, so hopefully tomorrow morning you can go out there and shoot a low score."

Lee finished two positions outside of the top 115 golfers who automatically for a full European card for next year.

He instead earned partial rights after finding the water on the penultimate hole of the Portugal Masters.

But Lee could well and truly earn his berth with victory at Royal Pines, an Australian event co-sanctioned with the European Tour.

Lucas Herbert and Brett Rankin shared the overnight lead after morning rounds of 67, with Lee one of 13 players within two shots.

Scott (70) putted well to stay in the mix, while two-times defending champion Cameron Smith (74) needs to lift to feature on the weekend.