Star Renegades recruit Shaun Marsh can expect an off-putting hug from his brother and a surprise standing ovation from the Perth Scorchers crowd when he returns to his former stomping ground this weekend.

Scorchers fans were left stunned when Marsh left the BBL franchise at the end of last summer to sign a three-year deal with the Renegades.

The 36-year-old is a legend of Western Australia cricket, and less than two months ago struck an unbeaten century to guide the Warriors to the domestic one-day title.

But he'll be enemy No.1 on Saturday night when he returns to Optus Stadium.

Mitch Marsh is captain of the Scorchers and will be doing his best to rattle his older brother.

And he wants the crowd to join in on the act.

"The booing will probably spur him on, so I'm kind of hoping everyone gives him a standing ovation and shows him plenty of love. Hopefully that will rattle him," Mitch said.

"It will be a bit weird seeing him in red, but I'm looking forward to it.

"I think he will be nervous. Hopefully he doesn't go too well.

"I'll give him a bit (of stick) I reckon. I might even give him a hug, why not? There's got to be a bit of theatre doesn't there?"

The Marsh brothers have been teammates for years within the WA set-up, but there was one previous occasion when they went up against each other in professional ranks.

"I played against him in the IPL once," Mitch said.

"That was definitely a bit of a weird feeling.

"He hit me for four first ball, so hopefully that won't be the case this time."

Shaun Marsh top-scored for his new team with 42 on his Renegades debut in a loss to Sydney Thunder on Thursday night, and expected to fill the role of villain in his home state.

"I'll probably cop a few boos, but I'm looking forward to getting back home and seeing my family, and obviously it's a really important game for us after our loss," Shaun said.

"It's going to be strange playing against them, but I'm also looking forward to it and hopefully we can get the win.

"It's going to be a bit weird facing (Mitch), like being back in the backyard.

"Hopefully I can get away and get a few runs out there."

Mitch has been cleared to bowl again after recovering from his broken hand, meaning he might get the chance to exact some revenge against his brother.

The Scorchers' bid to rebound from last summer's wooden spoon got off to a terrible start when they copped a eight-wicket thrashing from the Sydney Sixers on Wednesday night.