Hampton was shot three times and remains in a critical condition

But the suspect charged at them with a glass bottle before attempting escape

Officers Sterling Hayes and Christopher Flores spotted him at corner of 23rd and Mission Street in San Francisco

Body cam footage showing a burglary suspect lashing out at police officers before being shot three times has been released by a Californian police force.

Officers Christopher Flores and Sterling Hayes were responding to a hot prowl burglary call into San Francisco Police Department, as well as a vandalism report.

Stopping at the corner of 23rd and Mission Street, they spotted Jamaica Hampton, who matched the description of the suspect in both cases.

But as terrifying CCTV footage shows, when officers went to confront Hampton, he charged at Officer Hayes with a glass vodka bottle seconds after he opened his car door.

In the footage, Officer Flores tries to use his baton, but Hampton overpowered him, striking him twice in the head with the empty bottle.

The officers are then seen chasing Hampton around cars in the street on their body cams, shouting at him to get down on the floor.

At one point, an officer attempts to pepper spray the man. The pursuit comes to a standstill with one of the officers facing off with the man.

As Hampton runs in the direction of an officer, the officer opens fire and the man falls to the ground. He then appears to struggle to get up, at which point the other officer fires another shot.

Body cam footage showing burglary suspect Jamaica Hampton lashing out at police officers before being shot three times in the Mission area of San Francisco

Stopping at the corner of 23rd and Mission Street, they spotted Jamaica Hampton, who matched the description of the suspect in both cases

The officers then attempt to perform first aid on the man, while still visibly shaken by what has happened.

As other officers arrive the pair are both led away.

'Man,' Officer Hayes can be heard yelling on the body-worn camera footage. 'I didn't want to do this.'

'I tried to pepper spray him, it didn't work,' the officer said, appearing to be crying as Officer Flores joins him, nursing a wound on his face.

The police department have since released photographs of the officer with blood on his head and face.

Officer Flores tries to use his baton, but Hampton overpowered him, striking him twice in the head with the empty bottle

As Hampton runs in the direction of an officer, the officer opens fire and the man falls to the ground. He then appears to struggle to get up, at which point the other officer fires another shot

The officers then attempt to perform first aid on the man, while still visibly shaken by what has happened

'I tried to pepper spray him, it didn't work,' the officer said, appearing to be crying as Officer Flores (pictured) joins him, nursing a wound on his face

Footage of the incident was released at a town hall meeting, as a matter of 'transparency' over the case.

The shooting has prompted outrage from community members who equated the incident to prior police shootings from the Mission area.

Friends and family of Jamaica Hampton attended the meeting to speak about Hampton in a different life

'He pulled himself from a dark place and rebuilt his life, and was thriving... and you tore him down,' said friend Eve Greenberg about Hampton, who had volunteered at a local church in Oakland.

San Fancisco Police Department have since released photographs of Officer Flores who sustained cuts to his head and face during the incident

It was later revealed the Officer Flores had been a rookie who joined the force in November 2018, SFPD records show. The other officer started in July 2013.

Hampton was taken to Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital in critical condition.

The District Attorney’s Office have since filed two counts of assault with a deadly weapon, two counts of assault on an officer and one count of threat to an officer against him.

He has also been charged with vandalism in connection with an unrelated incident.