YouTube star Zoella has been accused of being flippant about domestic violence, after revealing that her 'favourite game' is shouting 'help' out the window to make neighbours think her boyfriend is attacking her.

An anonymous fan told FEMAIL that she was 'deeply concerned' after watching a video of the vlogger, 29, from Brighton, 'joking' about domestic violence, and claimed her critical comment was deleted hours later.

'With their platform reaching millions of young, impressionable viewers, I feel this speaks to a wider danger on social media and how 'influencers' both negate and exploit their influence.

MailOnline has contacted a spokesperson for Zoella for comment.

In the video, Zoella's boyfriend, fellow vlogger Alfie Deyes, 26, from London, is seen playfully sitting on her chest, promoting her to let out a loud 'ow' while hysterically giggling.

Vlogger Zoella, 29, from Brighton, acted out a typical situation where Alfie would stop her 'screaming' by grabbing her face

'Literally I didn't even touch you and you say "ow"', laughed her boyfriend.

The vlogger continued to laugh and pretended to be in pain as Alfie said: 'You are such a faker.'

As she continued to laugh, he said:' That's not even funny the neighbours are gonna thing something weird is going on.'

At this comment, Zoe shouted: 'Help!'

YouTube star Zoe Sugg (pictured left) told during a couple's Q&A that her favourite game is shouting 'help' out the window while with boyfriend Alfie Deyes (pictured right)

In the video , Alfie, 26, London, is seen playfully sitting on his wife's chest, promoting her to let out a loud 'ow' while giggling

The vlogger continued to laugh and pretending to be in pain while screaming 'ow' and then 'help'

'No, that's not funny, that's legit not funny', said Alfie gleefully.

Zoe then admitted: 'Guys that's one of my favorite games to play with Alfie - when the bedroom window is open, when the bedroom is open.'

Alfie continued: 'The window is open because it's hot in our room and Zoe will just start shouting, "Help, stop it Alfie, help". I say, "That's not funny, someone is legit gonna think I'm attacking you.'

Zoe and fellow YouTube star Alfie have been together for seven-years after they started dating back in 2012

Still giggling, she said 'I've done it like three times.'

Alfie then acted out, grabbing Zoe by her face as he explained: 'I say, "Stop, stop", and then they look through the window and you're screaming.

Zoe and fellow YouTube star Alfie have been together for seven years after they started dating back in 2012.

The anonymous fan told Femail that the video 'deeply concerned' her and said the video 'speaks to a wider danger on social media'.

An anonymous fan of the vlogger ays she was 'deeply concerned' after watching a video where the couple joked about domestic abuse

The anonymous viewer told FEMAIL: 'I couldn't quite believe what I was watching and left a comment.

'Hours later this comment was deleted and I've since been made aware - through speaking to others on social media - that 'criticial' comments are frequently removed.

Zoella, who shot to fame with her YouTube channel a decade ago, is one of the most popular vloggers on the platform, with a total of 15 million subscribers across two channels

The fan said they were 'exploiting' the wide-reaching influence they both have by making light of such a serious issue

Zoella, who shot to fame with her YouTube channel a decade ago, is one of the most popular vloggers on the platform, with a total of 15 million subscribers across two channels.

She is well known for her candid approach to mental health issues and has opened up in the past about the struggles she faces.

The vlogger faced backlash in October last year after her first non-fiction book was released.

Cordially Invited was blasted by other vloggers and negative comments online, with with 53 per cent of shoppers giving it a one star rating.