Actor Sheila Atim received an MBE from Prince William as comedian Griff Rhys-Jones and author Joanna Trollop were also honoured at Buckingham Palace today.

The 28-year-old, who is best known for her role as Marianne in the original production of Girl from the North Country, was given the honour by the Duke of Cambridge.

The actor, who came to the UK from Uganda at only five months old, has also played Emilia opposite Mark Rylance's Iago in Othello, at the Globe, in 2018.

Ms Atim, who was wearing a fitted striped dress with an asymmetrical neckline, appeared to get on get on well with Prince William during the visit to the royal palace.

Sheila Atim after she was made a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) following an investiture ceremony at Buckingham Palace, London, today

The Duke of Cambridge awards the honour to Sheila Atim who appear to get on well

Author Joanna Trollope after she was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE)

Other people honoured at the investiture ceremony include best-selling author Joanna Trollope, who was made CBE for services to literature, comic actor Griff Rhys Jones, who was made OBE for services to entertainment and for charity.

Christopher Nolan, who directed blockbuster films including Dark Knight and Dunkirk, was also awarded an CBE, saying the process was 'a thrill.'

After being presented with the honour for services to film, he added that he was pleased to see his art form get public recognition from outside the industry.

Nolan said: 'As a passionate advocate of film and the importance of film culturally, it is really thrilling to me that film would be honoured in this way and is considered worthy of this kind of honour.

'I think film is one of the great collective pastimes, one of the great art forms.

'It is lovely to see it accorded this kind of status.'

Griff Rhys Jones after he was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE)

Mr Nolan's long list of blockbusters include the Batman trilogy, Interstellar and Inception and his filmography is estimated to have grossed a total of 4.7 billion dollars (£4.2 billion) worldwide.

The 49-year-old said that he was able to discuss his work with the Duke of Cambridge before he presented the award at Buckingham Palace on Thursday.

Nolan said: 'He spoke of his love of film and asked if I was working on something new and I was able to tell him that I had just finished filming something and I've started to edit it.'

He said he is 'feeling excited' about the project, adding: 'I enjoy editing and that's the part of the process I'm in now. It's the fun part.'

Mr Nolan's new film Tenet is due to arrive in cinemas next year.

Christopher Nolan (left) was made a Commander of the British Empire (CBE) and England Women's Netball captain Ama Agbeze was made a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE)

The filmmaker was born in London to a British father and an American mother.

He studied English at University College London (UCL) and chose the school because of its filmmaking facilities.

While at UCL, Mr Nolan was president of the film society and produced short films while studying.

It is also where he met his future wife, Emma Thomas, with whom he has four children and runs a production company, Syncopy.

Nolan said he was joined by his family for the ceremony, adding: 'Their reaction coming was of tremendous excitement and I think it's a big thrill for them to come here to Buckingham Palace and to see all of this.'