Vineyards in the Adelaide Hills could take years to fully recover from last week's destructive bushfires, but growers have vowed to continue production in the renowned wine region.

More than 1000 hectares of vines were damaged or lost in the fire, which destroyed at least 86 homes and almost 500 other buildings.

Brian Smedley, chief executive of the South Australian Wine Industry Association (SAWIA), said the long-term impact of the blaze would depend on the condition of individual vineyards.

He said some vines may be able to regenerate, while a full replanting could be necessary in other situations, but the fires were certain to have an effect on the availability of wine.

"There will be less Adelaide Hills wine, simply by the nature of what happened," he said.

"It will take a number of vintages before production returns to what it was."

Mr Smedley said winemakers might have to look elsewhere for fruit, which could drive demand and prices up, though in some cases there can be no substitute.

"If you have a claim on the bottle that you're going to be producing Adelaide Hills Chardonnay, that might not be possible," he said.

"You might have to make a more generic wine into the future until the vines have recovered."

He said fire damage may present growers the opportunity to change aspects of their production, such as the variety of their grape.

Among the affected wineries are Tilbrook Estate, Vinteloper, Barristers Block, Tomich Wines, Golding Wines and Anderson Hill.

James Tilbrook said his vineyard and winery was gone as well as wine stock, barrels, equipment and multiple sheds, but he would push ahead to this year's vintage.

"I am sure with all the offers of support we'll be able to make some wine," he said.

"The next target is to get the wine in bottle.

"Once we have wine again we are back in business."

Vinteloper, owned by David Bowley, posted on its Instagram account that the bushfires had been "the worst day in our history".

"I am completely broken," the post read.