A Russian mother says trolls have urged her to kill her baby because of its huge birthmark after she revealed a priest refused to baptise her daughter.

Maria Khvostantseva, 22, said she has faced a wave of hatred online after last month telling how the local priest believed her daughter was contagious and sent her away.

'I got tonnes of messages and phone calls from strangers. They were insulting me and urging to kill my baby.' The mother from the city of Kurgan told local media.

'A woman said to me by phone, ''Kill your child! Throw it under a train!"'

Six-month-old Vika Khvostantseva was born with a large congenital melanocytic nevi that covers 80 percent of her body

Maria Khvostantseva, 22, told local TV that she had received vile online trolling including people telling her to throw her daughter under a train

As well as the large birthmark across the baby's back, Vika has moles dotted across her body

One of the messages said: 'Look at this ugly monster. You should put it under an acid rain or under a press. Kill this creature!'

Another message says: 'It's better to die than to be like that.'

According to the mother, she has faced brutal intolerance since the birth of her daughter Vika six months ago.

The police have opened an investigation following the mother's TV interview.

Ms Khvostantseva previously said: 'When I gave birth to Vika, the midwife said, ''She's kind of dirty or what?'', and tried to clean her with a napkin.

'A paediatrician advised me to send my baby to an orphanage. People in the street often point their fingers at Vika and laugh. I am very upset because of that.'

Baby Vika with her father. The mother gave a television interview recently after last month revealing a priest had refused to baptise the baby

The family together, Ms Khvostantseva said: 'My baby is beautiful and very much loved by her family'

Last month an Orthodox priest refused to baptise Vika because he thought the child's birthmark was contagious.

The mother said: 'The priest did not want to touch Vika. He said, ''The spot can be contagious and I think our congregation won't understand this'.''

The clergyman expressed fears that other parents would not wish to participate in the group baptism ceremony because of Vika's appearance.

Ms Khvostantseva said she rarely takes her baby out because she wants to shield her from people's aggression.

She said: 'My baby is beautiful and very much loved by her family. My son says, ''Vika was kissed by the sun''.'

Ms Khvostantseva said that Vika's big brother says: 'Vika was kissed by the sun'

Ms Khvostantseva became distraught during the interview as she revealed the hate she had recieved

The baby Vika was diagnosed with large congenital melanocytic nevi that covers 80 percent of her body.

The condition is dangerous as there is an increased risk for it to develop into melanoma, a serious type of skin cancer.

Last month Mikhail Nasonov, a spokesperson for Kurgan Orthodox Church said to local media: 'We plan to conduct an internal investigation following the incident.

'The priest in question will face disciplinary action. We condemn what happened.

'I am sure if the mother goes to the church again, the ceremony will be held this time.'