Five siblings in foster care no longer have to worry about being split up from one another after all of them were adopted by the same parents this month.

Whitney and James Meserve from Reynolds Station, Kentucky told Good Morning America they couldn't have biological children, so several years ago, they became foster parents.

And on December 17 at 8:30 a.m. — just days before Christmas — the couple officially adopted five siblings who'd otherwise have been unlikely to find a home together.

Scroll down for video

Feel-good story: Five siblings in foster care no longer have to worry about being split up from one another after all of them were adopted by the same parents this month

Happy home: Aubrey, 11; Jayda, 10; Preslee, 9; Rylynne, 8; and Addison, 4; are pictured with two other adopted siblings

What a crowd! Hundreds of friends showed up for adoption day

Mom and dad: Whitney and James Meserve from Reynolds Station, Kentucky have now adopted seven kids this year

Years ago, after taking a seven-week course, Whitney and her husband began fostering children.

When they were presented with Aubrey, 11; Jayda, 10; Preslee, 9; Rylynne, 8; and Addison, 4, they were told that they would likely be split up in foster care — so the Meserves decided to take them all in.

That arrangement became permanent this week when they all went down to the courthouse dressed in Christmas sweaters and legally became a family in front of hundreds of friends from the community.

The adoption was also live-streamed at the elementary school where Whitney works.

'This was what we were supposed to do in life. We were supposed to take on kids and God really has blessed us with these kids,' Whitney told GMA.

Family: The Meserves started fostering children when they couldn't have biological children

'This was what we were supposed to do in life. We were supposed to take on kids and God really has blessed us with these kids,' Whitney said

'Now we get to begin the year with happiness and end the year with happiness,' James added

'Now we get to begin the year with happiness and end the year with happiness,' James added.

'Christmas miracles do happen. It's happened here; it will happen elsewhere.'

The kids are thrilled, too.

Oldest daughter Aubrey said they feel 'relieved' because they know know what their future holds, while Jayda shared a similar sentiment, noting that they no longer have to worry about moving or changing schools.

'It feels great to know that we are in a stable home and we know everyone,' she said.

And ahead of Christmas, she said, 'It feels like the best gift ever.'

This isn't the Meserves first adoption. Back in February, the couple also adopted siblings Norah, 12, and Sebastian, 11.

Oldest daughter Aubrey said they feel 'relieved' because they know know what their future holds