This mischievous panda has proved himself to be a master in hide-and-seek.

Shuang Hao, a male bear living in China, was caught on camera playing the game with his keeper at a breeding centre.

After hiding himself in a small gap in the wall, the well-concealed panda started to fall asleep while standing and waiting to be found.

A video filmed at Chengdu Giant Panda Breeding Research Base in China shows one-year-old male bear Shuang Hao standing in a small gap in the wall and waiting their patiently

Shuang Hao was born in July 2014 at Chengdu Giant Panda Breeding Research Base in the province of Sichuan.

The adorable video was captured in June 2016 when he was nearly two and was recently released to MailOnline by the state-run base.

Shuang Hao grew up playing with six other pandas born around the same time.

In order to bring them up, keepers set up a special 'panda nursery' for the seven cubs to frolic in.

Pandas, a symbol of China, are renowned for its slow motion and lazy daily routine

It is said that naughty Shuang Hao was trying to hide away from carers in the footage.

He squeezed himself into a dent in the rock and waited their patiently - so patiently he started to doze off.

Pandas, a symbol of China, are renowned for its slow motion and lazy daily routine.

They spend about half of their day sleeping and another half eating.

Shuang Hao and his best friend, Cheng Jiu, were relocated to Hangzhou Zoo in September 2016 and lived there for three years.

Shuang Hao and his best friend Cheng Jiu are pictured playing in the snow at Hangzhou zoo

Shuang Hao lived moved from Chengdu to Hangzhou in 2016 and lived there for three years

In March last year, Shuang Hao became a life saviour for Cheng Jiu after the latter became critically ill due to digestive issues.

Vets took blood from Shuang Hao and transfused it to Cheng Jiu during surgery to save the ill panda, which had not been able to digest food for nearly 10 days.

The operation was successful.

Cheng Jiu and Shuang Hao moved back to Chengdu Giant Panda Breeding Research Base in October after celebrating their fifth birthday in a party in Hangzhou.