The NRA's chief executive has accused the organization's former president Oliver North of 'waterboarding' him with demands after claiming a $2million salary.

Wayne LaPierre described how North's appointment turned into a power struggle at the heart of the gun lobby which ended in a public fallout earlier this year.

NRA presidents are not usually paid, but North managed to negotiate a package above $2million, LaPierre told the New York Times.

The row finally came to a head in April when North was forced to step down after LaPierre claimed the former Marine had tried to oust him.

NRA chief executive Wayne LaPierre (pictured) has described the power struggle which erupted at the heart of the gun lobby after Oliver North became the organization's president

North, now 76, took up the NRA's presidency in May 2018 and LaPierre said he had 'considered him a friend'.

In a public statement at the time, LaPierre described North as a 'skilled leader' and a 'legendary warrior for American freedom'.

His appointment was intended to give a weight to the largely ceremonial position which it had lacked since actor Charlton Heston resigned in 2003.

However, relations soured amid a complex dispute between the NRA and its former PR firm Ackerman McQueen, which employed North.

North demanded that the NRA cut ties with a separate law firm that LaPierre had hired, sparking tension at the top of the gun lobby.

LaPierre said North would complain about the law firm's 'outrageous bills' in a barrage of demands which wore LaPierre down.

'He just wouldn't back off. I mean, it was literally, weekly, weekly, weekly, like this, waterboarding of me,' LaPierre said of North.

'It was just this never-ending waterboarding,' he said. North declined to comment when approached by the newspaper.

Former Marine lieutenant colonel Oliver North (pictured), now 76, took up the NRA's presidency in May 2018 but his tenure was marked by a power struggle

Retired Marine Oliver North became famous for the arms-for-hostages Iran–Contra affair. This 1986 photo shows him being sworn in to testify before the House Foreign Affairs Committee

LaPierre has been NRA chief executive since 1991 but the organization has been plagued by acrimony in recent months.

The power struggle spiralled into a crisis in April this year when LaPierre accused North of trying to oust him by threatening to release 'damaging' information about him.

North denied trying to remove LaPierre, but announced he would not stand for a second term as NRA president.

The NRA has also filed several lawsuits against Ackerman McQueen, accusing it of refusing to document its billings and of seeking to undermine the association.

Ackerman has countersued, claiming the NRA is trying to renege on its financial obligations and smear the public relations firm.

Before his stint at the NRA, North was best known as a key figure in the Reagan-era Iran-Contra scandal.

The scandal surrounded the secret sales of arms to Iran by Reagan's administration and the unlawful diversion of the proceeds to Nicaragua's Contra rebels.

North, who was a White House National Security Council aide, set up a weapons pipeline to the Nicaraguan rebels despite a congressional ban.

He was convicted of three felonies in 1989, but his convictions were overturned on appeal in 1990.

Later he became a conservative radio talk show host and frequent commentator on conservative television networks.