They ended To All The Boys I've Loved Before with a kiss.

And now stars Lana Condor and Noah Centineo are back in the new trailer for the film's sequel, To All The Boys: P.S. I Still Love You, which dropped on Thursday.

The pair are now dating, however a rival for Lara Jean's (Condor) affections arrives on the scene in the form of John Ambrose McLaren (Jordan Fisher).

Look who's back: Lana Condor and Noah Centineo are back in the new trailer for their hit film's sequel, To All The Boys: P.S. I Still Love You, which dropped on Thursday

The trailer, set to the tune of Lauv's I Like Me Better, started with Lara Jean and Peter (Centineo) out on their first 'real' date.

Peter then gave Lara Jean a locket in the place where they first met at school.

What followed was a romantic montage of the couple going to a fun fair and enjoying a candlelit dinner for two.

However into the mix came a potential love rival to Peter -McLaren- who was introduced staring down at Lara Jean lying on the floor after she slips on some M&Ms.

This so happened to be very similar to the way she met Peter.

PDAs: They ended To All The Boys I've Loved Before with a kiss

New guy: The pair are now dating, however a rival for Lara Jean's (Condor, pictured) affections arrives on the scene in the form of John Ambrose McLaren (Jordan Fisher)

McLaren was introduced towards the end of the first film, during a mid-credits sequence.

However the role has been recast, with John Burtchett originally playing the love interest from Lara Jean's past.

To All The Boys I've Loved Before was about the series of romantic entanglements endured by Lara Jean after her private love letters are mailed to the boys in her life.

The first movie debuted on Netflix in 2018, to impressive critical and audience acclaim.

Whoops: To All The Boys I've Loved Before was about the series of romantic entanglements endured by Lara Jean after her private love letters are mailed to the boys in her life

New beginnings: The trailer, set to the tune of Lauv's I Like Me Better, started with Lara Jean and Peter (Centineo) out on their first 'real' date

Good times: What followed was a romantic montage of the couple going to a fun fair and enjoying a candlelit dinner for two

Per the official synopsis for the sequel, Lara Jean depends on her sisters and her friends to help her 'manage the complex emotions that come with this new chapter of balancing a relationship and figuring out her authentic self.'

'But when John Ambrose, another recipient of one of Lara Jean’s old love letters, enters her life again she must rely on herself more than ever as she’s confronted with her first real dilemma: Can a girl be in love with two boys at once?'

To All The Boys: P.S. I Still Love You is set for release on Netflix on February 12, 2020.