A student in Texas has claimed that his high school violated his right to religious freedom when they forced him to shave his mustache in order for him to take his exams.

Paul Miller III, 16, is a student at Dawson High School in Pearland, Texas.

According to Miller, school officials told him over the last two months that his mustache was a violation of the school's dress code.

'I told the school I can't shave, I'm Messianic Jew, it's part of my religion,' Miller told KPRC.

Scroll down for video

Paul Miller III (pictured), 16, a student at Dawson High School in Texas, has claimed that he was forced to shave his mustache in order to take his exams, which went against his religious beliefs

According to Miller, school officials told him over the last two months that his mustache (seen in both photos) was a violation of the school's dress code

Miller said that he was told to submit a letter from his parents for a religious exemption, which he says was turned in to an assistant principal. He said the school then rejected the letter.

Last week, when Miller tried to take his exams, he was allegedly told by an administrator that he needed to abide by the dress code first.

'She told me if I shaved, I would get my exemption,' he told KPRC.

He then went to the nurse's office where she 'shaved me herself', Miller said.

'I kept telling her I was told to shave but I don't want to do it, I was trying to work something out, apparently I couldn't.

'Apparently they don't respect that and that's horrible,' he said.

Miller's family is demanding a public apology from the district and for all staff to receive additional training. Pictured is the Dawson High School in Pearland, Texas

A Pearland Independent School District spokesman said in a statement that 'it is absolutely false that the school nurse shaved the student'.

According to the statement, 'the student shaved himself by his own choosing'.

The district also claimed that they never received a note for the exemption.

Miller's family is demanding a public apology from the district and for all staff to receive additional training.

SHAVING IN JUDAISM In Leviticus, there’s the instruction not to mar the corners of the beard. The corners of the beard were explained to refer to five extremities in the Talmud, but there are numerous opinions about what those five points are. It could be a point on each cheek, near the temples, a point at the end of the cheek bone towards the center of the face and the point of the chin. The reference may also be to the two points on the mustache. Though the mustache is never explicitly mentioned in Leviticus, the Shulchan Aruch, the Jewish code of law, prohibits the shaving of the entire beard and mustache.

Earlier this year, a similar incident occurred in the same school district when an assistant principal used a permanent marker to fill in a shaved hairstyle that violated school dress code.

The district was subsequently sued over the incident and at the time, school officials said that they were 'extremely disappointed' by the incident and said the 'campus administrator mishandled disciplinary action'.

But they did reiterate the school's dress code means that hair 'must be neat, clean and well groomed', adding that 'extreme hair styles such as carvings' are not allowed.

A similar incident happened in New Jersey when a high school wrestling referee forced a black teenage competitor to cut his dreadlocks or forfeit the match.

New Jersey referee Alan Maloney told 16-year-old Buena Regional wrestler Andrew Johnson that he had to cut his hair or be disqualified from a match last December.

Maloney claimed that Johnson did not have a legal hair covering and that he gave the wrestler 90 seconds, the proper amount of time, for him to correct the perceived issue.

The referee was subsequently suspended and officials later announced mandatory bias training for all referees and coaches involved in high school athletics.

By the end of the 2020-2021 school year, implicit bias training will be provided to all high school officials and schools will be required to provide similar training to administrators, coaches and trainers.