It could be a still from one of his blockbuster movies.

But there was nothing staged about this adorable scene, as actor Bradley Cooper carried his darling daughter Lea through flurries of falling snow in New York on Wednesday.

The magical moment came as the two were caught out by the sudden flurry, while out walking near their apartment in the city.

Making memories: Bradley Cooper shares a magical moment with daughter Lea as he carries her through falling snow in New York on Wednesday

Luckily both were wrapped up warmly, with little Lea in a Mickey Mouse hat and warm coat, and adorable boots on her feet.

Bradley looked to be shivering a little as his beanie, wool peacoat, and black trousers were caked in snow.

But despite this he gave a huge grin as he shook off the snow, then grabbed his daughter and held her up to experience the wintry weather.

Bradley has been single since June, when he and Irina - the father of two-year-old Lea De Seine - went their separate ways after four years together.

It was previously claimed 33-year-old Russian model Irina had split with the 44-year-old Avengers: Endgame star because the pair rarely spent any time together.

Action! It could be a still from one of his blockbuster movies

A source said previously: '[Irina is] not focused on the celebrity part, or on the fame - she just wants to protect her family. Bradley is very into work and is trying to take advantage of every career opportunity right now. They spent a lot of time apart.

'They were living totally separate lives. If he was in LA, she's out of town, and if she was in town, he was out of town.'

Following their break up Bradley was linked to actress Laura Dern, 52, who laughed off the rumors saying: 'We're amazing friends. We're so lucky. And we're family.'

Prior to Bradley being linked to Laura, Lady Gaga was forced to address false claims that she struck up a romance with the American Sniper star on the set of their movie A Star Is Born.

Braving the cold: Bradley looked to be shivering a little as his beanie, wool peacoat, and black trousers were caked in snow

When asked about the rumours, the pop superstar - who performed Shallow from the movie with Bradley at the Oscars - simply rolled her eyes, before she said: 'First of all, social media, quite frankly, is the toilet of the internet and what it's done to pop culture is abysmal.

'People saw love and, guess what, that's what we wanted to you to see. This is a love song. The movie, A Star Is Born, it's a love story.'

Gaga insisted she and Bradley performed the song in their characters - with Gaga as Ally and Bradley as Jack - because they're both 'artists', who wanted to give the best performance possible.

She added: 'From a performance perspective, it was so important to both of us that we were connected the entire time. When you're singing love songs, that's how you want people to feel. 'I'm an artist! I guess we did a good job. Fooled ya!'