Santa will be bitterly disappointed if he's expecting the traditional milk and cookies when he visits the Hemsworth family home this year.

Instead, he'll be met with bottles of vitamins after Elsa Pataky announced milk and cookies were banned in her house this Christmas.

'No milk and cookies for Santa this year, just a bunch of #swissevitamins to help him maintain a consistent delivery run for all the good girls and boys!' the 43-year-old actress wrote on Instagram in a sponsored post on Monday.

Keeping healthy: Elsa Patakydecorated her family Christmas tree with bottles of vitamins after revealing Santa wouldn't be receiving milk and cookies this year

The accompanying photo shows Elsa smiling as she adorns her Christmas tree with bottles of vitamins among the red and gold ornaments.

She's dressed in a blue patterned ensemble, and a Santa hat is worn over her loose long blonde hair.

In an interview with Hola! this month, Elsa - who shares daughter India, seven, and twin sons Trisha and Sasha, five, with her husband of nine years, Chris Hemsworth, 36 - revealed it would be her family's first Christmas in their new Byron Bay mansion.

Heavy lifting: Elsa shared a photo of herself wearing a Santa hat and carrying a hessian sack over one shoulder on Instagram earlier this month

'We are finally moving to our new home, where we'll spend the Christmas vacation,' the Spanish-born beauty told the publication.

'Chris and I have been involved in every tiny detail of the house. It looks very nice. It's very serene, very Mediterranean, I've planted my olive trees... It reminds me quite a lot of the traditional buildings in Ibiza.'

And the family has well and truly embraced the Christmas spirit, with Elsa sharing a photo of herself wearing a Santa hat and carrying a hessian sack over one shoulder on Instagram earlier this month.

Perfect match: She also shared a photo of herself and the couple's three children decorating the Christmas tree in matching plaid pyjamas. 'Some like it plaid!' she captioned the sweet family photo

'Giving him a hand,' she captioned the photo, adding a Santa emoji.

She also shared a photo of herself and the couple's three children decorating the Christmas tree in matching plaid pyjamas.

'Some like it plaid!' she captioned the sweet family photo.