Businesses today hailed government plans to prevent unions from bringing the rail network to a standstill.

Measures to ensure that 'minimum service levels' are maintained during rail strikes are included in the Queen's Speech.

Both operators and unions will be obliged to sign up to the guarantee, which is designed to alleviate the suffering of commuters during widespread industrial actions, especially in the south of England.

The RMT wreaked havoc on Southern three years ago, in a dispute over whether guards or drivers should be responsible for opening train doors.

The move was announced as members of the RMT took their 17th day of strike action on South Western Railway since the start of the month.

A total of 27 days of strikes will be held until New Year's Day, causing massive disruption to passengers.

The move was announced as members of the RMT continued their strike on South Western Railway (pictured is commuters from Guildford to Waterlook on December 2)

Striking railway workers protest at Waterloo Station earlier this month

Sean McKee of the London Chamber of Commerce, said: 'London's businesses recognise the right to strike, but want to see that right better balanced so it doesn't bring a halt to the capital's essential rail network.'

'Nearly three quarters of London businesses polled back a minimum service guarantee during times of strike.

'Those businesses will provisionally welcome the steps taken by the Government today'

Under the legislation, so-called minimum service agreements will set out minimum services to be provided during walkouts by railway workers.

Any strike will be unlawful unless a minimum service agreement is in place, and if it is not honoured, a strike shall be unlawful and injunctions or damages may be sought against unions.

The Government said the aim of the legislation was to reduce disruption caused to passengers during rail strikes, while preserving workers' right to take industrial action.

The move would also allow railway companies to plan services more effectively, well in advance of any action, said the Government.

Almost 200 days of rail strikes have taken place, or are in progress, since 2016.

Transport workers went on strike over three times more than the UK average last year, causing significant disruption to passengers and the public.

Outlining the measures in the Queen's Speech, the Government said: 'We will consult on how best to implement this in a proportionate way, including ensuring that sanctions are not directed at individual workers, and how this would interact with the wider industrial relations framework.'

The PM was cheered to the rafters by the newly-enlarged ranks of Tory MPs today as he hailed the government's new legislative programme

RMT members joined a protest outside Parliament shortly after the announcement of action on strikes was made.

RMT general secretary Mick Cash said: 'This is a draconian measure which amounts to an attempt to ban transport workers from going on strike.

'Taking industrial action is a basic human right and denying workers the ability to withdraw their labour has been the hallmark of hard right, authoritarian regimes.'

Manuel Cortes, leader of the Transport Salaried Staffs Association, said: 'This is straight forward union bashing from an anti-worker Tory government which will always back the bosses over workers.'