The movie adaptation of popular stage musical Cats has been universally savaged by critics, even receiving one reviewer's first ever zero-star rating.

Director Tom Hooper's extravagant rendering - with an A-list ensemble cast featuring the talents of Taylor Swift, Dame Judi Dench, Idris Elba and Sir Ian McKellen - has received largely negative comments in early reviews.

Branded an 'all-time disaster' by one critic, the film was slammed as 'jarring', 'a huge failure', 'soulless' and just plain 'wrong' by movie buffs on both sides of the Atlantic.

Scroll down for video

Awkward: Even the presence of Taylor Swift hasn't protected Tom Hooper's Cats from a disastrous string of early reviews

With an estimated $95 million budget it's a worrying portent for a film so long in the making, but the warning signs were already in evidence when fans lambasted its first theatrical trailer, with poor animation cited as its number one flaw.

Critics would argue that CGI is the least of its worries, with the Daily Telegraph branding Hooper's film 'an all-time disaster' and giving it the ignominious honour of zero stars - the first in the publication's history.

'Once seen, the only realistic way to fix Cats would be to spay it, or simply pretend it never happened,' writes review Tom Robey.

Meow: Dane Judy dench also features in the cinematic rendering of Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber's iconic musical

'Because it’s an all-time disaster – a rare and star-spangled calamity which will leave jaws littered across floors and agents unemployed. For the first time since the head-spinningly dire dadcom Old Dogs in 2010, I'm giving a film no stars.'

Empire magazine was equally critical, but praised the film for its 'craft and talent,' while conceding that, visually at least, it is 'bold and striking.'

With a score of two out of five stars, reviewer John Nugent admits that while the animation has improved since its first trailer was met with such scorn, the film fails on almost every front.

Meow: But the male cast-members, along them Sir Ian McKellan, are described as looking like 'b*llends'

Not happy: 'Neither human nor cat, they all look like laboratory mutants put through a Snapchat filter,' writes another of the entire cast

Bizarre: 'Your brain will never comprehend it. It’s jarring from the first minute and remains jarring until the last'

He writes: 'The much-vaunted “digital fur technology” has improved since the trailer, but never climbs from the shivering depths of the uncanny valley.

'Neither human nor cat, they all look like laboratory mutants put through a Snapchat filter. Your brain will never comprehend it. It’s jarring from the first minute and remains jarring until the last'

Meanwhile The Guardian's Peter Bradshaw offered the film a solitary one star, dismissing it as a 'furry orgy in a dumps.'

'Each male in the cast looks a bit of a b*llend' he writes of the 'distracting' special effects. 'And those bizarre whiskers don’t add to their charms.'

Giving it a comparatively generous two out of five, The Independent admitted Hooper's latest cinematic effort was 'improbable and entirely indescribable'.

Clarisse Loughrey writes: 'Cats is destined to go down in glorious infamy. It’s one of those rare cinematic events that feels like a collective hallucination – improbable and entirely indescribable. What can you say when faced with Sir Sir Ian McKellan, CGI-ed into a cat-person body, gingerly licking milk out of a bowl?'

Continuing a universally negative theme, Prospect magazine slammed Cats as 'a baffling, humourless CGI nightmare,' and claimed it is even worse than the recent Tory landslide.

Feline friend: Rebel Wilson stars in the new film, but her appearance has been overshadowed by some disastrous reviews

‘History books of the future will tell of the twin disasters in December 2019. The first, the Labour Party’s results in a pivotal general election. The second, Cats,' writes reporter Caspar Salmon.

Meanwhile The Evening Standard's Dave Sexton lambasted the film's inability to replicate the magic of Lloyd Webber's stage production.

'It all just feels so wrong,' he writes. 'Whether they are human or feline, what on earth has happened in those smoothed out groins, so much exposed by the leotards?

'And let’s not think about those tails that keep erecting for emphasis. All of the characters appear much more to advantage when dressed in clothes (whatever the logic of that).'

Star turn: Jennifer Hudson also features in Hooper's latest cinematic effort

Universal appeal: But Taylor Swift's appearance has done little in terms of winning positive reviews

Writing for Beat, Edward Douglas described it as 'the worst thing to happen to cats since dogs.'

'As much as a I love a good movie musical, Cats isn’t one, and Hooper just doesn’t have enough in his filmmaking repertoire (including his chosen cast) to save the movie from being equally awful. Cats is indeed garbage… now and forever,' he writes.

Overseas reviews have been no less harsh, with a strong international presence not protecting the film from savage criticism.

In a lengthy tirade, The Hollywood Reporter wades in on Hooper's production, writing: ‘In addition to the generally off-putting appearance of the cats, the proportions are all wrong with respect to their surrounding environment. Sometimes they go from appearing minuscule to giant-size within the same scene.

Landslide: ‘History books of the future will tell of the twin disasters in December 2019. The first, the Labour Party’s results in a pivotal general election. The second, Cats,' wrote one reviewer

Not right: ‘In addition to the generally off-putting appearance of the cats, the proportions are all wrong with respect to their surrounding environment,' slammed another

‘And when Hamilton choreographer Andy Blankenbuehler assembles much of the large ensemble in the dance number that officially kicks off the Jellicle Ball (more about that in a minute), they just look like hairy naked humans wearing cat ears.

'In fact, that interlude made me think of a hirsute equivalent of the frantic volcano opener from Goddess, the Vegas revue in Showgirls.’

Giving the film one star, the New York Post added: 'Director Tom Hooper’s movie is a huge failure because he’s completely abandoned the fundamentals of what made Cats a terrific show: sublime music, captivating dance and an intoxicating atmosphere.

Coming soon: Cats will go on general release from December 20th

'Instead, the director chooses to shake the camera around as though he can’t find his footing, uses dreadful CGI-human hybrids that look worse than makeup and needlessly buttresses the plot with exposition.'

There was however one ray of light from the Daily Mail's Brian Viner, who gave it a high scoring four out of five stars.

Praising the film, he writes: 'I actually think that eight out of ten cinemagoers will say that they’ve enjoyed it, as long as they go along prepared for what they’re about to see, which is essentially a feline-themed ballet.'

Cats will go on general release from December 20th.