It is the year of the foldable phones and Samsung seems to be leading the pack.

The South Korean firm just released its Galaxy Fold and new leaks suggest a prototype for a predecessor is in the works.

Five images were shared on a Chinese social media site that highlight a ‘clamshell’ folding design that opens into a full screen, but collapses into a square small enough to slide into one’s pocket.

First spotted on Weibo, the images claim to be Samsung’s latest foldable prototype and although information was given, the smartphone appears to boast two cameras on the back next to a digital clock.

Samsung teased the concept of a clamshell folding phone in October alongside the Galaxy Fold, but no details other than images were provided at the time.

Scroll down for videos

Samsung just released its Galaxy Fold and new leaks suggest a prototype for a predecessor is in the works. The handset collapses into a square small enough to slide into one’s pocket

However, the Korea Herald also jumped on the speculation bandwagon earlier this month stating the handset is expected to cost $850 and will be unveiled sometime in February.

Hyesoon Jeong, head of Samsung’s framework R&D group at a conference in November according to The Verge: ‘This brand-new form factor that we’re now exploring will not only easily fit in your pocket, but it also changes the way you use your phone.’

Samsung has yet to release any details on the new concept, leaving its name, specs, and stage of development a mystery.

Equally as mysterious is whether the company has even advanced folding technology to a sophisticated enough level to pull the design off.

Samsung teased the concept of a clamshell folding phone in October alongside the Galaxy Fold, but no details other than images were provided at the time. The clamshell handset is expected to cost $850 and will be unveiled sometime in February

Samsung has yet to release any details on the new concept, leaving its name, specs, and stage of development a mystery

Samsung's only other collapsible device, the Galaxy Fold, has encountered myriad problems since being introduced earlier this year.

First the handset experience numerous delays and once released there were problems with its display that caused its screen to deform or in some cases, become completely unusable.

Since then, however, Samsung corrected the Fold's course, releasing the device to consumers last month - whether a new design will dispense with the phone's issues should be revealed with time.

In addition to companies like Huawei - the only other phone manufacturer to release a folding phone - relative newcomers to the world of high-end smart phones like TCL have also begun to stake their claim.

Samsung's only other collapsible device, the Galaxy Fold, has encountered myriad problems since being introduced earlier this year. First the handset experience numerous delays and once released there were problems with its display that caused its screen to deform or in some cases, become completely unusable

Samsung may be ahead of the foldable phone race, but another competitor appears to be entering the game shortly. Last month Motorola announced it would resurrect its nostalgic ‘Razr’ smarthphone, but with a modern twist

A recent prototype sent out by the company showcases a device with multiple hinges that bend to form a 'Z' shape and extend into a 10-inch display when fully opened.

When collapsed the phone folds onto itself to configure the device into a book-like shape with one, slimmer, outward facing display.

The Korea Herald reports that LG may also release its own folding device sometime next year.

Samsung may be ahead of the foldable phone race, but another competitor appears to be entering the game shortly.

Last month Motorola announced it would resurrect its nostalgic ‘Razr’ smarthphone, but with a modern twist.

The phone, first launched in the early 2000s, will boast a 6.2-inch foldable screen that bends in half to shut in the same way as older 'clamshell' handsets.