Carlo Ancelotti will be in the stands for Everton’s clash with Arsenal on Saturday and will start his new role as manager on Monday.

The club confirmed on Thursday that caretaker-manager Duncan Ferguson will be in charge for the game at Goodison Park.

Ancelotti’s lawyers were at former club Napoli on Thursday to finalise pay-off terms.

Carlo Ancelotti will be in the stands for Everton's game against Arsenal on Saturday

Duncan Ferguson will remain in charge on a caretaker basis for the match at Goodison Park

Everton held talks with Ancelotti on Monday in London’s Mayfair, where majority shareholder Farhad Moshiri has a house, and the move would go down as the biggest managerial appointment in the club’s history, as well as a massive show of ambition.

Moshiri considered a number of options ranging from Vitor Pereira to former manager David Moyes and Bournemouth’s Eddie Howe.

But appointing Ancelotti, a three-time Champions League winner, is something Moshiri viewed as a game-changer and the Italian will be rewarded with a long-term contract.

Ancelotti will have his son, Davide, as his assistant on the coaching staff and there will also be a place for Ferguson. The Scot was placed in charge in a caretaker capacity after Marco Silva’s sacking on December 5.

The three-time Champions League winner will be bringing in his son Davide as an assistant

Farhad Moshiri views Ancelotti as a game changer who can take Everton to the next level

He has since overseen a revival, with a win against Chelsea followed by a draw at Manchester United, although Everton crashed out of the Carabao Cup on Wednesday, losing to Leicester on penalties after a 2-2 draw.

After that game, Ferguson said: ‘They’ve got a great team spirit now and I think there’s something to build on.

‘Of course, when a new guy comes in, he’ll have his own ideas, and I’m sure he’ll be looking to the January transfer window.’

Leicester boss Brendan Rodgers praised Ferguson, saying: ‘He was great on the touchline. He’s a true Evertonian, but he’s also a very good coach.

‘If it’s not his time, then I’m sure in the future it can be because he has the DNA of Everton.’