A roaring fireball blasted a house's wall clean off last night after the tumble dryer supposedly ignited and blew up the kitchen's aerosol cans.

A man was watching TV when the explosion ripped through the gable end of the building and sent debris and bricks spraying out over the garden.

Neighbours described hearing a deafening bang at around 8.30pm, with one heroic individual rushing into the partially collapsed burning building to drag out the dazed occupant.

Photos of the house on Green Lane in Kessingland, Suffolk, lay bare the devastation caused by the blaze, which ravaged the entirety of the brickwork and gave the home the appearance of a giant dolls' house.

The owner of the terraced house, David Metherell, who was not there at the time, said the explosion happened after the tumble dryer caught fire.

A roaring fireball blasted a house's wall clean off last night after the tumble dryer supposedly ignited and blew up the kitchen's aerosol cans

Photos from the aftermath lay bare the devastation caused by the blaze, which ravaged the entirety of the brickwork and gave the home the appearance of a giant dolls' house

The explosion ripped through the gable end of the building and sent debris and bricks spraying out on to the garden

He told the BBC: 'There were domestic aerosol cans stored in the kitchen and there is some suggestion they may have combusted in the fire.

'My understanding is that the tumble dryer was in use and became ignited and the fire spread quite rapidly and caused the damage.'

Despite the enormous blast, the inside of the house remains relatively unscathed.

A steel framed bed, mattress and bed clothes can clearly be seen in one upper room along with an adjoining study complete with a desk and computer monitor.

On the ground floor the sitting room can be seen with a clock above the fireplace and next door the room is filled with kitchen appliances.

Neighbours said the blast had been caused by a tumble-dryer, though fire chiefs stressed the cause had not been established.

Today it emerged how one hero neighbour rescued the male homeowner from his burning home.

The unnamed neighbour ran into the burning house and managed to extract its dazed occupant who had been watching TV.

Despite the enormous blast, the inside of the house in Suffolk remains relatively unscathed

Beds, televisions and the whole kitchen can be seen from the wreckage with debris scattered all over the floor.

Metal fences have been erected around the property while emergency services deal with the incident.

A local resident, who did not want to be named, said: 'I was in bed with my little girl. All I heard was loud beeping from an alarm.

'One man ran over and was trying to put the fire out. The man whose house it was was just standing outside what was left of his house and he just looked in shock.

'The fire service turned up and I didn't really see anything else.

'My baby's father ran up with his friends because he heard a loud bang. The whole street was out.

'The road is still closed and there's a film crew and lots of people at the bottom of the road.

'All of his stuff is visible- the whole side of his house is just gone. I've heard that he's been taken to hospital and that he has suffered burns.'

The huge explosion may have ripped off the walls, but TVs and tables inside the house do not seem to have been damaged

A bedroom is exposed after the massive blast, but the bed and clothes hanger remain intact

Another told her local newspaper, she and other neighbours were alerted by a loud explosion at around 8.30pm last night.

She said: 'We came outside and could see there was a fire and the whole side of the house was gone. It was all on fire.'

An ambulance and ambulance officer were called and the man taken to the James Paget Hospital in Great Yarmouth, Norfolk, for further care.

The explosion destroyed the wall on the side of an end-of-terrace home and started a blaze.

Two fire crews from Lowestoft South were called to the explosion, with firefighters remaining at the scene until after midnight.

A statement from Suffolk Fire and Rescue Service said: 'Suffolk Fire and Rescue Service were called to a property in Green Lane, Kessingland, shortly after 8.30pm yesterday evening.

'Two crews attended from Lowestoft South. Traffic management is in place outside the property due to damage to the structure.

'A fire investigation will be carried out into the cause of the fire.'

Firefighters also worked with the electricity board to ensure the safety of the property, while the junction of Green Lane and Church Road remains shut today (Thurs) as work is carried out to make sure the home is structurally safe.

Suffolk Highways tweeted today at 9am that the road remains closed.

They said: 'Green Lane, Kessingland is currently closed due to a property incident that took place late last night. The road will remain closed until further notice, updates will be provided.'