WASHINGTON, Dec 19 (Reuters) - The White House on Thursday defended President Donald Trump's verbal assault against former Democratic Representative John Dingell, the longest-serving member of Congress, who died earlier this year.

At a campaign rally in Dingell's home state of Michigan Wednesday night, Trump suggested the late lawmaker was in hell by saying he was "looking up" rather than "looking down" on those still living.

Dingell died in February at age 92 after representing his district outside Detroit for 59 years in the House of Representatives. He was replaced by his wife, Debbie, who won the seat after he retired.

"I didn't give him the 'B' treatment. I didn't give him the 'A' or the 'D.' I could have," Trump, who ordered U.S. flags to be flown at half-staff after Dingell's death, said at a rally held as the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives voted to impeach him.

"She calls me up," Trump said of Dingell's widow. "'It's the nicest thing that's ever happened. Thank you so much. John would be so thrilled. He's looking down. He'd be so thrilled,'" Trump quoted her as saying.

"I said: 'That's OK, don't worry about it. Maybe he's looking up, I don't know. I don't know," Trump told supporters.

Debbie Dingell, in a tweet, lamented Trump's cutting remarks and urged him "to set politics aside," adding: "Your hurtful words just made my healing much harder."

White House spokeswoman Stephanie Grisham on Thursday said Trump was under a lot of pressure.

"He has been under attack, and under impeachment attack, for the last few months, and then just under attack politically for the last two-and-a-half years," Grisham told ABC News. "As we all know, the president is a counter puncher."

In television interviews on Thursday, Dingell vowed to stay focused on her constituents, telling CNN: "If he thinks he's going to keep me from doing my job, I'm going to be right back at it."

"It was mean, cruel, disgusting, and I wish I could say it was surprising," Democratic Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan told MSNBC.

Debbie Dingell's Republican counterpart, Representative Fred Upton, called her husband "a great Michigan legend" and said "an apology is due."

Asked if she wanted Trump to apologize, Dingell told CNN: "I don't want to politicize my husband ... It is still something that I'm really grieving over. This Thanksgiving was really hard and Christmas is harder." (Reporting by Susan Heavey; Editing by Dan Grebler)