Eddie Murphy has hinted he might play Bill Cosby during his hugely anticipated return to Saturday Night Live this weekend.

The SNL icon, 58, has also promised to bring back favorite characters, including Gumby and Buckwheat, as he makes his return to the stage after 35 years away from the show which catapulted his career into superstar status.

Speaking with the Today show, Eddie said it felt 'surreal and dreamy' to be back at Studio 8H after he first appeared there as a 19-year-old.

He admitted 82-year-old sex offender Cosby might not find the sketch funny, but added: 'We are talking about a Gumby thing, we are talking about a Buckwheat thing.

'We are talking about a Bill Cosby thing, maybe. It will be very funny - I don't know if he would think it was funny.'

Cosby, who is serving a three and a half year jail term, lost his appeal earlier this month against his 2018 conviction for drugging and sexually assaulting a woman 15 years ago. Murphy played him during his original run on SNL in the 1980s.

Murphy refused to play Cosby at the 40th anniversary special in 2015. Kenan Thompson played the shamed actor instead.

Scroll down for video.

Eddie Murphy, pictured, is returning to Saturday Night Live this weekend after 35 years away

The SNL icon has also promised to bring back favorite characters, including Gumby, left, and Buckwheat, right. He has also hinted he might play Bill Cosby during his hugely anticipated return to Saturday Night Live this weekend

Murphy told Washington Post of his decision to not play Cosby at the time: 'It’s horrible. There’s nothing funny about it. If you get up there and you crack jokes about him, you’re just hurting people.'

But it seems Murphy, who first starred on the show from 1980-1984, has now changed his mind following Cosby's conviction.

Eddie Murphy as Bill Cosby during the 'Here's 'Cos' skit in 1981

He added Wednesday: 'Mr Robinson, if we can come up with a Mr Robinson. Velvet Jones. I'm down for whatever, as long as it's really, really funny.'

The comic was credited with reviving the failing sketch show with characters including a grown-up Little Rascals character Buckwheat and the street-smart children's host named Mister Robinson, who was inspired by Mister Rogers.

While Murphy did host shortly after he left in 1984 and appeared in a 40th anniversary special in 2015, he hasn't been on the program since.

He was understood to have been angered by a joke made by David Spade bout his movie career in 1995. Spade had joked Murphy was 'a falling star'.

Murphy left the show to pursue other endeavors including acting on the silver screen, which turned out to be a rather successful move.

His latest role in Netflix's Dolemite Is My Name has earned rave reviews from critics and has since garnered a nearly 80% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

In an interview with Al Rokee Murphy said: 'The same spirit is up here. And it's still the same big burst of nostalgia.

'I may have been ambivalent about coming back before (for the 40th anniversary show). Then when I got in here and I felt the spirit in this room and I saw all the other people who worked in the show over the years and I felt this kinship.

'Since then I've been wanting to do it.'

Eddie Murphy made his triumphant return to the NBC studios with a dramatic trailer

Murphy first starred on the show from 1980-1984. The cast of 1981 is pictured with Eddie left

Murphy, right, is pictured with Chris Rock, left, at SNL's 40th anniversary special

Murphy, who says his 10 children have all flown into New York for the show, he added: 'I want it to be really, really right. You don't want to wait 35 years and come back and the show ain't s***.'

On Tuesday a newly released trailer showed the 58-year-old comedian walking through the coveted halls backstage of the popular sketch comedy show.

He scans the hallways at Studio 8H while casually walking to the main stage, removing his glasses and smiling at the camera.

Murphy will be joined by Time magazine's 2019 Entertainer of the Year recipient, Lizzo.