Arsenal fans have been offered a hint of how they should expect their side to play under Mikel Arteta.

The Spaniard is expected to be announced as the permanent replacement for Unai Emery as he gets set to leave his role as Pep Guardiola's No 2 at Manchester City.

And a video of him giving out tactical instructions during a course with the Welsh FA in 2018 has shed some light on how his Arsenal team could play.

A video has emerged of Mikel Arteta outlining his philosophy at a Welsh FA coaching session

Arteta is expected to be named the new Arsenal manager before this weekend

Arteta can be seeing outlining his vision with the help of a projector that shows players moving around in different formations.

Arteta says: 'These lines are here because I don't like creating lines between the wide players. Why? Because the fullback passes to the wide player, like this. His back's to the ball, he can't progress the play.

'Someone hits his bum, he cannot play forward.

'When you are doing this, these angles you create, you are always receiving the ball like this.

'Normally they squeeze a little bit. From that moment he needs to know, I set the ball, I want to run from behind the wide players.

Spaniard Arteta details his vision during a course with the Welsh FA back in 2018

Arteta has been working as Pep Guardiola's assistant at Manchester City since 2016

Arteta details how we wants his side to attack with players wide and high with the ball

'When we attack I want two centre backs and these players wide and high, ready so when we send the ball in this side this guy has to arrive.'

On Thursday Arsenal postponed Freddie Ljungberg's pre-match press-conference until Friday with Arteta expected to be announced before the weekend trip to Everton.

Arteta was in the City dugout for their 3-1 win against Oxford United on Wednesday in the Carabao Cup quarter-finals.

However, City manager Pep Guardiola confirmed earlier in the week that the Spaniard was in talks with Arsenal about taking over on a permanent basis, following an underwhelming caretaker spell under Ljungberg.