He just had his greatest commercial success with Joker.

But Joaquin Phoenix's devotion to being a thespian is no laughing matter.

The 45-year-old actor was spotted filming an untitled project from director Mike Mills. in New York City on Tuesday.

Man of mystery: Joaquin Phoenix was spotted filming an untitled project from director Mike Mills. in New York City on Tuesday

Little is known about the story for this project, but Phoenix did show that he had impressive cardio as he was seen running down the street.

He kept things casual as he bundled up in a dark green North Face coat over navy blue knit sweater and white collard shirt.

Joaquin also sported a pair of baggy blue jeans white white classic Converse All-Star sneakers.

His short greying locks were disheveled as he sported some grizzled scruff.

Running the game: Little is known about the story for this project, but the 45-year-old actor did show that he had impressive cardio as he was seen running down the street

No doubt Joaquin's next project will be at the center of much scrutiny as his role in the Joker has not only found him commercial success but also earned him both Golden Globe and SAG Awards nominations.

The Todd Phillips directed film was also just named IMDB's number one movie of the year.

The dark DC Comics film rose to the top of the site's ratings based on both its popularity and the number of page views it earned, according to ScreenRant.

No laughing matter: No doubt Joaquin's next project will be at the center of much scrutiny as his role in the Joker has not only found him commercial success but also earned him both Golden Globe and SAG Awards nominations

This comes after Joker's blockbuster run in theaters. The movie set records as the first R-rated film to earn over $1billion at the box office.

Fans of the film can also look forward to more of Joker's dark world.

There is already reportedly a sequel in the works, according to The Hollywood Reporter.

Director Todd Phillips is in talks to return to helm the film, while Warner Brothers already has sequel options set for star Phoenix.

Back for more: There is reportedly a sequel in the works as director Todd Phillips is in talks to return to helm the film, while Warner Brothers already has sequel options set for star Phoenix, seen together in October above

Last month, Todd proposed to develop a portfolio of DC characters' origin stories during a meeting with Warner Brothers Pictures Group chairman Toby Emmerich, according to the report.

Emmerich reportedly balked at the pitch, but Todd did leave with the rights to 'at least' one other DC story.

But upon Joker's box office success, a sequel appears to be a go.