If you were to draw a flow chart to explain how the transfer market for leading German players has worked over the past decade, it really wouldn't be too complicated.

In the centre would be the Bayern Munich logo and around the outside the badges of every other club. Every arrow would then point from the outer clubs towards Bayern.

Mario Mandzukic (Wolfsburg), Mario Gotze, Robert Lewandowski, Mats Hummels (all Borussia Dortmund), Joshua Kimmich (RB Leipzig), Serge Gnabry (Werder Bremen), Niklas Sule (Hoffenheim), Leon Goretzka (Schalke) and Benjamin Pavard (Stuttgart) have all been poached by Bayern from league rivals.

Timo Werner scored twice in RB Leipzig's thrilling 3-3 draw at Borussia Dortmund on Tuesday

The pacey German striker too advantage of two defensive howlers to score his quickfire brace

EUROPE'S LEADING LEAGUE SCORERS IN 19/20 18 goals - Timo Werner (RB Leipzig) 17 goals - Ciro Immobile (Lazio) 16 goals - Erling Haaland (Red Bull Salzburg) and Ante Vukusic (NK Olimpija 15 goals - Junior Moraes (Shakhtar) 14 goals - Dieumerci Mbokani (Royal Antwerp)

All of which serves to make the case of Leipzig striker Timo Werner all the more intriguing.

Werner had an agreement 'in principle' to sign for Bayern last summer. The contract details had all been thrashed out, it was just a matter of whether the 23-year-old would join immediately for a fee or in the summer of 2020 for nothing.

But the days ticked by and Bayern delayed and delayed some more. They wrapped up a loan deal for Philippe Coutinho in the meantime.

Perhaps it was a form of arrogance created by their magnetic attraction for Germany's best talents, a 'Werner will still come to us' attitude.

It proved a big mistake. Werner, seeking the stability of a full pre-season and sick of the transfer speculation, pulled the plug on the deal. Bayern had lost, for a change.

He then signed a contract extension at Leipzig just before the transfer deadline and, well, he hasn't regretted the decision since.

Werner's two goals against Dortmund took his Bundesliga tally to 18 goals in 16 games so far

Werner is the hottest property in Europe right now, his two goals in Leipzig's thrilling 3-3 draw against Borussia Dortmund on Tuesday night, taking his season's Bundesliga tally to 18 in 16 games.

That puts him top of the goalscoring charts in all the European top-flights, ahead of Lazio's Ciro Immobile (17 goals), Erling Haaland of Red Bull Salzburg (16) and Ante Vukusic of Slovenian club Olimpija (16).

Of those 12 have come in Leipzig's last seven league matches, a run of six wins and one draw that has propelled Julian Nagelsmann's hungry and exciting team to a three-point lead at the top.

With Bayern, German champions for the past seven seasons, currently seven points back in fifth, it's fair to say Werner hasn't regretted his decision to stay at Leipzig.

They have a genuine chance of winning their first Bundesliga title in a race that is wide open, capping the club's rise from the fifth tier to the pinnacle of German football in a decade funded by Red Bull's millions.

Nagelsmann has also guided Leipzig into the last-16 of the Champions League for the first time, where opponents Tottenham will need to stick to Werner like glue.

Werner goes round Roman Burki after latching onto Julian Brandt's misguided back pass

WERNER STATS 19/20 Appearances: 24 Goals: 23 Assists: 9 Yellow cards: 1 Minutes played: 1,908 *across all competitions

Leipzig are widely hated within German football, having been bankrolled through the leagues in a national culture that places great pride in fan ownership and democracy as opposed to wealthy backers.

But at least they're making things interesting in a division that has long gone stale with Bayern's dominance both on and off the field.

Werner didn't produce his finest performance at Signal Iduna Park on Tuesday night and Dortmund succeeded in shackling him for long spells.

But when two horrendous Dortmund errors - the first a miscued headed clearance by keeper Roman Burki, the second an ill-advised blind back pass by Julian Brandt - offered up chances, he was as clinical as always.

Werner is nicknamed 'Turbo Timo' by the German media - he can run 100 metres in 11.11 seconds - and it was easy to see why as he skipped clear of the Dortmund defence to round Burki and equalise at 2-2.

Werner had a deal in principle agreed with Bayern last summer before he pulled the plug

It was on the same ground Germany coach Joachim Low handed Werner his international debut back in March 2017 and the striker has since scored 11 goals in 29 games for his country.

On current form, he will lead the line for Germany at Euro 2020 and is part of the reason their chances of winning the tournament cannot be discounted despite a tough group draw.

And playing his way into the national side permanently was one of the reasons Werner rejected the Bayern circus back in the summer.

He is assured of regular football at Leipzig - with Nagelsmann, who is obsessed with tactical minutiae, adjusting his position in the forward line to a slightly deeper one this season - as opposed to competing with Lewandowski and others for game time in Munich.

It also explains why he hasn't yet come to the Premier League, despite being linked with Liverpool, Chelsea and Manchester United in the past, and probably isn't likely to for a while.

Werner's goals have led RB Leipzig to the top as they look to end Bayern's German dominance

Werner is still only 23 so there is still plenty of time for all that. Besides, it would take upwards of £70million to prise him away from Leipzig, who really don't need to sell players.

Indeed, they are in talks to sign Haaland from their sister club in Salzburg in January as they go all out to break Bayern's stranglehold on the Bundesliga.

Werner is now in his fourth prolific season with Leipzig - his overall record now stands at 84 goals in 138 games for them - but partnering him with Haaland in the New Year really would be frightening.

But, as he is proving week-in, week-out at the moment, 'Turbo Timo' has Leipzig on the fast track to glory.