He worked with the director over 10 years ago on The Imaginarium Of Doctor Parnassus.

And Jude Law was delighted to run into Monty Python star Terry Gilliam as he picked up some Christmas gifts in Highgate in North London on Thursday.

The actor, 46, happily embraced the filmmaker, 79, as they briefly caught up on the outing, after he joined the case of Doctor Parnassus to replace the late Heath Ledger.

Fancy seeing you here! Jude Law was delighted to run into Monty Python star Terry Gilliam as he picked up some Christmas gifts in Highgate in North London on Thursday

Jude cut a casual figure as he picked up essentials from the Green's grocery shop, and as he stepped onto the street he ran into Terry.

The pair were thrilled to see each other again as they shared a brief embrace before chatting about their recent outings, while Terry's wife Maggie Weston, 71, watched on.

Following their brief exchange, Terry gave Jude a quick thumbs up before the pair headed off in separate directions to continue their day.

Friendly: The actor was delighted to run into the director as he picked some groceries, 10 years after the pair worked on The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus

Thrilled:Jude appeared to be solo on his casual outing as he ran into Terry, who was joined by his wife Maggie Weston for the outing

Jovial: The trio already appeared to be in the Christmas spirit as they stopped on the street to catch up

Cosy: Jude was wrapped up in a casual brown trench coat for the outing, while Terry opted for a low-key leather jacket lined with sheepskin

Projects: Jude worked with Terry, who directed The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus back in 2009, which told the tale of the leader of a travelling theatre troupe

Work: The plot of the film was changed following the death of lead actor Heath Ledger in 2008, with other actors cast to portray Parnassus's transformations in the dream world

Jude worked with Terry who directed The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus back in 2009, which told the tale of the leader of a travelling theatre troupe who transforms into various forms after entering a dream world.

The plot of the film was changed following the death of lead actor Heath Ledger in 2008, with other actors cast to portray Parnassus' transformations in the dream world.

Jude joined Johnny Depp and Colin Farrell in portraying each of these transformations, and the film was eventually finished and released to mixed reviews from critics.

Sensational: Jude took on one of three 'transformations' Parnassus makes in the film (pictured in character) alongside Johnny Depp and Colin Farrell

Low-key: The Cold Mountain star opted for a relaxed ensemble as he picked up the groceries in the capital

Screen star: Elsewhere Jude recently wrapped filming on The New Pope that sees him appear alongside John Malkovich, and sees him reprise his role as Pope Pius XIII

Sensational: He first played Lenny, who became the first American pope in history and took the name Pius XIII, in The Young Pope, which first hit screens in 2016

Awaited: The latest series takes up after The Young Pope's cliffhanger ending, which saw Pius XIII confronted with a moment of weakness that threatened to destroy his papacy

Elsewhere Jude recently wrapped filming on The New Pope that sees him appear alongside John Malkovich, and sees him reprise his role as Pope Pius XIII.

He first played Lenny, who became the first American pope in history and took the name Pius XIII, in The Young Pope, which first hit screens in 2016.

The latest series takes up after The Young Pope's cliffhanger ending, which saw Pius XIII confronted with a moment of weakness that threatened to destroy his papacy.

According to Variety, The New Pope will not be a 'second series of The Young Pope' but instead a 'second limited series set in the world of the modern papacy'.

Exciting: Elsewhere Jude is also closing out 2019 as a married man, after he tied the knot with Phillipa Coan in an intimate London ceremony in April

Farewell! Following their brief meeting, Jude and Terry exchanged their goodbyes before heading off in separate directions

Iconic: Terry first rose to prominence as a member of the comedic troupe Monty Python, in which he appeared alongside John Cleese and Michael Palin

Legend: He has gone onto direct various Hollywood films including 1991's The Fisher King, which earned him a Golden Globe nomination for Best Director

Busy: He also worked on the cult classic Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas in 1998, and his most recent film was The Man Who Killed Don Quixote

Jovial: Jude seemed thrilled to have run into Terry, a decade after the pair worked together on the film

Elsewhere Jude is also closing out 2019 as a married man, after he tied the knot with Phillipa Coan in an intimate London ceremony in April.

The actor decided to shun a Hollywood guest list and the couple invited only their closest friends and family to their low-key nuptials.

Terry first rose to prominence as a member of the comedic troupe Monty Python, and has gone onto direct various Hollywood films including 1991's The Fisher King, which earned him a Golden Globe nomination for Best Director.

He also worked on the cult classic Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas in 1998, and his most recent film was The Man Who Killed Don Quixote.

The film struggled to land a release date due to an ongoing dispute with former producer Paulo Branco, but finally made it to cinemas last year.