As Lionel Messi took to the field for his 42nd El Clasico on Wednesday night – only Sergio Ramos had appeared in more.

It is a reminder that the Barcelona No 10 doesn't have too many appearances in the biggest fixture in world club football left in him.

Sportsmail tooks a look into the future: How will this historic fixture look without its most dominant player?

Lionel Messi (left) and Sergio Ramos (right) are as experienced as anyone left in El Clasico

Goalkeepers

Marc-Andre ter Stegen is still in goal for Barcelona and has finally ousted Manuel Neuer from the No 1 spot for Germany.

At Real Madrid, 24-year-old Andriy Lunin is finally first choice after several seasons spent at loan clubs.

Real Madrid defence

The veteran centre-back Sergio Ramos is now 37 but still lines up alongside Raphael Varane in the middle of Madrid's defence.

Sergio Reguilon and Achraf Hakimi are the full-backs long since back from loans at Sevilla and Dortmund

Ramos could well be wearing the armband for Real Madrid in the Clasico at the age of 37

Achraf Hakimi (left) and Sergio Reguilon (right) will be the full-backs for the years to come

Barcelona's defence

Gerard Pique has long since retired and is rumoured to want to run for president. Junior Firpo has finally established himself at left back.

Sergi Roberto is hanging on at right back. In central defence Matthijs de Ligt finally puts his time at Juventus behind him to join up with his Dutch international team-mate Frenkie de Jong.

It's the 24-year-old Ronald Araujo who plays alongside him having emerged as the best young defender at the club in years.

Real Madrid midfield

Casemiro is still seeking and destroying in midfield under the radar of most referees and he is now flanked by Martin Odegaard and Fede Valverde who have both established themselves as Balon d'Or candidates.

Martin Odegaard is back at Real Madrid and goes on to produce Ballon d'or level performances

Barcelona midfield

Riqui Puig has finally graduated aged 23. He is joined in midfield by 20-year-old Ilaix Moriba and De Jong who has now taken up the midfield baton from the retired Sergio Busquets.

Real Madrid attack

Kylian Mbappe ran his contract down at Paris Saint Germain to seal his move to the Bernabeu.

The 23-year-old Frenchman is flanked by Brazilian Rodrygo Goes and the Japanese Takeshi Kubo, who is impressing with Mallorca.

Kylian Mbappe is long admired by Real Madrid and remains a dream transfer target for them

Barcelona attack

Ansu Fati is 21 and doing his best to fill Messi's shoes if not his old No 10 shirt. The Spain international has Lautaro Martinez alongside him.

The Argentine was bought to partner Messi once Luis Suarez had moved to Miami to play for David Beckham.

The third man in the front three is Jadon Sancho. Having missed out on him when he left Borussia Dortmund in 2020, Barcelona finally get the England international.

Ansu Fati (left) is a star of the future while Barcelona go all out to bring in Jadon Sancho (right)

PREDICTED LINE-UPS

BARCELONA XI: Ter Stegen; Roberto, Araujo, De Ligt, Junior; Puig, De Jong, Ilaix Moriba; Fati, Martinez, Sancho

REAL MADRID XI: Lunin; Reguilon, Varane, Ramos, Achraf; Valverde, Casemiro, Odegaard; Rodrygo, Mbappe, Kubo