A 6ft5in British tourist has died after being restrained by six security guards at a five-star hotel in Cancun during a row with US tourists.

Dean Wright, 33, from Newcastle, fell to the floor while he was being held by the security team at the Riu Hotel's 24-hour sports bar last Friday.

Mr Wright was arguing with a group of North Americans in the early hours before the security guards intervened, The Sun reported. It was not clear what they were arguing about.

His girlfriend, Becky Platts, shared a photo with Mr Wright on Tuesday which prompted an outpouring of sympathy from the couple's grief-stricken friends.

Dean Wright's partner, Becky Platts, shared a photo with Mr Wright on Tuesday which prompted an outpouring of sympathy from her grief-stricken friends.

The Hotel Riu, situated on the stunning white sands of Playa del Carmen offers an all-inclusive world cuisine menu

Mr Wright, from Newcastle, is said to have rowed with a group of American tourists before security guards got involved

Lorna Smith wrote: 'You are doing so well Becky, through all of this you haven't folded, I think you are totally amazing. Keep strong and safe.'

Ms Platts, a senior account manager at Northern Gas in Newcastle, replied with a love heart emoji.

A fellow guest, told The Sun: 'I'd met Dean and Becky a few days earlier, and spent time with them so it was a huge shock to hear what happened.

'Dean got into an argument with a group of Americans at the Riu, which is all-inclusive and has a 24-hour sports bar. I'm not sure what the row was about.

'But it turned into a fight and something happened to Dean after around six security guards stepped in. He's a big man and must have been a handful, but it's not clear how he died and I'm sure his family will want to know.

'I can only hope a full police investigation is under way and will get to the bottom of it. I've sent my condolences to Becky but she must be very distressed.'

Emily Smith wrote on Ms Platt's Facebook yesterday: 'We're all thinking of you Becky, love you lots.'

Meanwhile Rach Scollins said: 'Thinking of you Becky Xx.'

A fellow holidaymaker said: 'It turned into a fight and something happened to Dean after around six security guards stepped in. He's a big man and must have been a handful, but it's not clear how he died and I'm sure his family will want to know'

Mr Wright and his girlfriend were staying at the five-star hotel with fellow holidaymakers describing their shock at the tragic events after meeting the couple

A spokesman from TUI travel agency said: 'We are aware of the tragic incident at the RIU Cancun, Mexico and our thoughts are with the family.

'Our team in resort is currently supporting the family and we will continue to assist in whatever way we can.

'The safety and well-being of our customers and staff is our primary concern and our dedicated resort team is working with the authorities and hoteliers.

'As the matter is currently still under investigation it would be inappropriate to comment further at this time.'

A fellow guest said: 'Dean got into an argument with a group of Americans at the Riu, which is all-inclusive and has a 24-hour sports bar. I'm not sure what the row was about'

A Foreign Office spokesman said: 'We are supporting the family of a British man who died in Cancun and are in contact with Mexican authorities.'

The Hotel Riu, situated on the stunning white sands of Playa del Carmen offers an all-inclusive world cuisine menu.

It is close to the popular Chichén Itzá tourist attraction, an ancient pre-Columbian city, famous for its Temple of Kukulcan.