Vicki Gunvalson may not be part of the main cast, but the 'OG of the OC' made the Season 14 Real Housewives of Orange County reunion all about her.

For this year's set, host Andy Cohen, 51, tried to replicate the 'calm Zen' of the Miraval Spa in Tucson, Arizona, where the women had recently shared a crazy trip.

But there was nothing calm about Vicki, 57, who was backstage threatening producers that she would leave if she wasn't given the respect she deserved.

It's all about me! Vicki Gunvalson throws a tantrum and blasts Andy Cohen as cast label each other 'pigs' in Real Housewives Of Orange County: season 14 reunion

Furious: Vicki thinks that the cast all owe their fame to her influence

Paying their respects? Gina Kirschenheiter, Tamra Judge and Shannon Beador sat beside Vikki

Attacked: Vikki had plenty to say to host Andy Cohen

Initially she was upset that she might be put at the end of the cast's row onstage, 'like a little lapdog.'

'I'm not going on sitting at the end,' she said. 'I started this show 15 years ago. So you put me on or just let me go. Let me go if you don't want me anymore.'

She was eventually placed next to Andy, but before she went on, she carped to a producer: 'The fact that they're one or two acts in already, and then they're gonna throw me in like I'm thirsty, I feel like I'm with the bottom feeders. I feel like I'm with the catfish.'

'Every hour they made me wait while they're off there filming makes me feel like a has-been.'

When she got onstage, Vicki immediately turned to Andy and said, 'I'm waiting back there, my temperature's at 150. Don't f***ing do this to me. Not good.'

The full lineup: While she may no longer be a castmember, Vikki dominated proceedings

Drama: Andy revealed that on November 1, someone named 'Jane Roe' had filed a lawsuit and restraining order against producers of the Real Housewives franchise

Andy then revealed that on November 1, someone named 'Jane Roe' had filed a lawsuit and restraining order against producers of the Real Housewives franchise over statements that were made by Kelly Dodd, 44, on the show.

Vicki was upset that Kelly called her a 'con woman,' calling up a lawsuit filed against her by an 82-year-old woman who said she was a 'fraud,' a claim that Vicki said threatened her business.

Andy pointed out that Vicki had brought more attention to the lawsuit, but Vicki said, 'I don't care. Nobody's gonna tell me I'm a con woman.'

As Kelly fought with her, Vicki got more amped up, especially when Kelly said 'Bring it on.'

Speaking out: Tamra Judge and Shannon Beador

To reduce the tension, Andy asked Vicki about her engagement to fiancé Steve Lodge, wondering how she knew he was 'the one,' especially after her two divorces.

'I think you just go through and follow your gut,' Vicki said. 'If I make another mistake, that's on me.'

Shannon Beador, 55, said she would have been divorced sooner if she hadn't been on the show, as it made her fight harder to keep her relationship alive.

Braunwyn Windham-Burke said it had brought her and her husband Sean closer together, but Gina Kirschenheiter, 35, said it had no effect on her relationship with ex Matt Kirschenheiter.

Reliving the rows: Talk eventually turned to the group's disastrous visit to Miraval Spa, when Kelly hit Shannon over the head when she was wearing a bowl in a cleansing ceremony

There for the lols: Gina Kirschenheiter watches the arguments once more

'I feel like with or without the show, I gave that relationship literally everything I had until it was over,' said Gina.

A viewer asked Gina what she wrote on a piece of paper at the Miraval Spa, which she left behind as a wish for her life. She revealed that she had written that she needed to let go of the idea of Matt.

She'd moved to California with three small children and no connections, Gina explained. 'I moved to Coto and I was like, 'This is my happily ever after…' and the rug just got pulled out from underneath me, and it was like, devastating.'

Matt has since been arrested on domestic violence charges for allegedly attacking Gina.

Gina and pal Emily Simpson, 54, also hashed out their relationship onstage, with Emily saying she'd been hurt when Gina poked fun at her behind her back this past season.

Gina had said it was 'weird' that Emily was going to dance onstage in Vegas for her husband and his family, referring to something that Emily had otherwise felt good about.

Gina said she would have been fine with it if the situation was reversed, and Emily didn't get what was going on in Gina's life.

All friends in the end: Andy and Vikki pose up for pictures

'There's lots of things I don't get,' Emily cried. 'But I get that I love you and that you're my friend, so when you make these choices and I don't get them, I still want to be friends with you.'

Kelly reminded Gina of what she'd said, adding, 'Do you not watch the show?'

'Shut up, you dumb b****,' Tamra Judge, 52, muttered, to which Kelly retorted, 'You're dumb,' and Tamra said it back to her.

'You didn't have a high school education,' Kelly jabbed at Tamra, which Tamra denied.

The OGs: Vikki slotted right back into her old lineup

Moments later, Kelly was referring to herself as 'seasoned,' and addressed Tamra and Shannon as 'very seasoned—I mean, you guys are burnt, cooked.'

As the two of them squabbled, Kelly threw in 'Great mom'—an especially painful dig at Tamra, who has struggled while raising her kids.

Next to them, Gina was crying as she spoke to Emily, saying 'I needed to be selfish this year. And to feel like I'm a bad friend or that I would turn on you is not fair.'

Memories: Gina had been angry with Emily during the season as Emily had hooked her up with a man who had a girlfriend—and Gina thought she'd done it on purpose

Gina had been angry with Emily during the season as Emily had hooked her up with a man who had a girlfriend—and Gina thought she'd done it on purpose, but Emily again denied it.

'She loves me,' Gina conceded, going to hug Emily. 'She'd get up if she had a good hip.'

Emily had entered the reunion on crutches, having had her left hip replaced 10 days before; unlike her spray-tanned castmates, she was pale, not wanting to cover the wound.

'I think the reason we get so upset when we get upset is because we really do care about each other,' Gina added.

As the episode began, everyone celebrated the return of 'fun Shannon,' their nickname for the newly single mom of three, who recently finalized her divorce.

Reliving the low points: There was plenty of drama to watch

Press reports said she got $1.4 million in the settlement, plus $10,000 in monthly spousal support, and Shannon said she'd been surprised she hadn't gotten more of the latter.

'Is it what I expected?' she asked. 'No. Just based on the lifestyle that we'd lived for 17 years.'

Shannon's daughter Sophie, 18, had just gained early acceptance to Baylor University, and was focusing on a kids' book she was writing about divorce.

Her mom met a new man shortly after yesterday's episode was taped, and was still with him.

'If I were to put everything on a list that I was looking for, he has all of it,' Shannon marveled, noting that he'd never seen the show. 'From being a great dad, he's so good to my kids, we share the same faith… and he has three kids.'

Taking the credit: Vikki said she was the original star of the show

Their children all spent 'at least two to three days a week together,' she added.

'I know it sounds crazy, 'cause it's been six months, but we all feel this comfort together, and I don't know, I just feel that there's a more of a peace about me.'

Asked who was the best kisser of all the people she kissed this season, Shannon said Gina.

Talk eventually turned to the group's disastrous visit to Miraval Spa, when Kelly hit Shannon over the head when she was wearing a bowl in a cleansing ceremony.

'I did it just for a joke, because it looked so ridiculous,' Kelly said. 'I thought it was funny. Half the world thought it was funny.'

'I think people didn't see that the bowls were heavy, and the mallets were heavy,' Shannon retorted, as she and Kelly started fighting again, calling each other 'hypocrites.'

Vicki later waded into the fray when Kelly started defending her business, and saying that the water line she partially owned had just gotten into Walmart.

'You are not a businesswoman!' Vicki yelled, later referring to Kelly's 'bad reputation.'

'Get her off my show!' the insurance broker yelled.

'Vicki, it's not your show,' Braunwyn reminded her.

'You wouldn't be here, you wouldn't be here, you wouldn't be here if I didn't start this 15 years ago,' Vicki clamored, pointing to each cast member around her.

The Real Housewives of Orange County airs part two of its Season 14 reunion on Monday, December 23, with part three airing Thursday December 26.