Real Housewives Of Cheshire star Dawn Ward took to Instagram Stories on Thursday to reveal her daughter Charlie was involved in a nasty car accident the day before.

Charlie was treated for a fractured skull and shoulder at Royal Manchester Children's Hospital and Dawn thanked the hospital for caring for her daughter so well.

Dawn, 46, wrote: 'For everyone asking my daughter Charlie was hit by a car yesterday.

Shock: Real Housewives Of Cheshire star Dawn Ward wrote on Instagram stories on Thursday that her daughter Charlie, 12, (left) has been hit by a car leaving her with a fractured skull

She's stable: Dawn shared this worrying post on Instagram Stories a day after the accident occured

'She has a fractured skull and shoulder very bruised but stable thank you for all your messages @RMCH_Ward78 have been amazing.'

It's unclear who was driving the car at this point or what exactly happened.

Dawn has appeared on the Real Housewives of Cheshire since it first aired in 2015 and is often involved in the most explosive storylines.

Family: She is married to ex footballer, Ashley Ward and they have four daughters together, including Aston, Darby and Taylor

She is married to ex footballer, Ashley Ward and they have four daughters together, including Aston, Darby and Taylor.

Earlier this year, Dawn spoke to MailOnline about how she has been branded a 'bully' and despite 'screaming and shouting' during disagreements with other castmates, she is 'very, very confident that she is a nice person.'

She said: 'I am warts and all, nobody is perfect and what you see is what you get on the show, I try and wear my heart on my sleeve and be the person that I am in real life. If I don’t believe in something, or if I think someone is in the wrong I'll say.'

The star also shared that she is thankful for appearing on reality TV show as it has been 'an amazing platform - not just for me - but my whole family.'

The philanthropist added: 'I think that you can be a bigger voice and make more awareness for the positive things in life

'Things like children’s charities or my crème de la crème ball - obviously things that I love to do that I have done many years before the show.'