A nonagenarian care home resident has fulfilled his wish to go skiing for the first time – just a couple of months before his 93rd birthday.

Robert Trulocke had always wanted to try skiing, describing it was a “boyhood ambition”, but thought he had missed his chance.

The 92-year-old, known as Bob, was inspired when care home staff encouraged him to pursue his dream.

Staff at Care UK’s Millers Grange in Witney, Oxfordshire, worked with the Snozone in Milton Keynes to make the pensioner’s wish come true.

Having always been adventurous, Mr Trulocke and his wife Renee went on a camping trip to Switzerland in their youth.

They drove the 700-mile trip in a Mini, and stayed on the edge of a lake in a tent that was bigger than the car.

The closest he came to skiing was when they decided to go up in a ski lift at a nearby slope but because it was summer they could not ski.

At Snozone, Mr Trulocke used an accessible ski in a sitting position, giving him more stability on the slope.

This allowed to try the slalom – where the skier has to weave in and out of poles – which is a challenge for any beginner.

Robert Trulocke takes to the slopes (Care UK/PA)

Mr Trulocke said: “It was fantastic to finally get to ski, especially as I’d given up trying to make it happen myself.

“I wanted to thank everyone who made it possible, particularly the team at Snozone and my friends at Millers Grange who arranged everything. I had a wonderful day that I will never forget.

“My favourite part was being able to do the slalom, weaving in and out, and whizzing down the slope – it made me feel alive.

“Age doesn’t have to hold you back from your dreams, and I hope I proved that today.”

Fulfilling a boyhood ambition (Care UK/PA)

Jim Macleod, customer relations manager at Millers Grange, said: “He was a natural – it’s fantastic to see Bob finally getting the opportunity to experience his lifelong dream, especially as he’d long thought it wasn’t possible.

“We don’t accept that life at a care home has to be a particular way – we ensure there are no limitations to activities residents pursue and help them to lead independent, fulfilling lives, however they choose.

“Each day at our care home is different and fun, but today was something extraordinary – Bob enjoyed his trip so much we couldn’t get him off the slopes.”