Selena Gomez has done some good with a trip for the WE movement.

The former Disney star shared photos to her 163M Instagram followers on Wednesday where she was mingling with locals.

'I will share so many of these stories and voices. Voices that need to be heard. We are working on something so special that will hopefully change so many lives,' the singer wrote in her caption.

Good girl: Selena Gomez has done some good with a trip for the WE movement. The former Disney star shared photos to her 163M Instagram followers on Wednesday where she was mingling with locals

Her team: 'I will share so many of these stories and voices. Voices that need to be heard. We are working on something so special that will hopefully change so many lives,' the singer wrote in her caption

'This is all I can post for now. @wemovement you do INCREDIBLE things and I’m honored to be apart of the family! Just the beginning.. my heart will be dedicated to people and serving.'

The Good For You hitmaker did not say where she was or what she was doing.

In one photo she is posing with school children at a desk with a notebook on top.

Wild: She was also seen leaning on a man with a green dress on and a red shawl who wore sandals and held on to a stick

A four-legged friend: Gomez leaned down to look at an elephant

The Monte Carlo actress was also seen with her team as she wore a white top, grey sweatpants and black boots.

A light grey sweatshirt was over her shoulders.

She was also seen leaning on a man with a green dress on and a red shawl who wore sandals and held on to a stick.

Secret trip: She also said, 'This is all I can post for now. @wemovement you do INCREDIBLE things and I’m honored to be apart of the family! Just the beginning.. my heart will be dedicated to people and serving'

Last week she shocked fans when she shared the long-awaited news about her next album.

The beauty said that her album will be called Rare, it will be released on January 10, 2020 and will contain songs with titles such as Cut You Off.

'Can’t believe I’m revealing the art and title for my new album RARE, out January 10th,' stated the siren, who famously split with Justin Bieber in early 2018 only to see him wed model Hailey Bieber months later. 'It’s the most honest music I’ve ever made and I can’t wait for you to hear my heart.'

NEW: Gomez shocked fans on Thursday when she shared the long-awaited news about her next album. The beauty shared that her album will be called Rare and will be released on January 10, 2020

Fresh SG: She is seen wearing a T-shirt that says Rare and then she is seen in her video clip for Look At Her Now

The Texas native also listed off the songs on the album.

She is seen wearing a T-shirt that says Rare with what appears to be a pink flower. And then she is seen in her video clip for Look At Her Now.

Next comes her drawing with colorful markers and another tune is heard.

Then on the screen the songs are listed.

'Rare, Dance Again, Ring, Vulnerable, People You Know, Let Me Get Me, Crowded Room featuring 6lack, Kinda Crazy, Fun, Cut You Off, A Sweeter Place featuring Kid Cudi.'

Working on her big album: Next comes her drawing and another tune is heard

On a roll: Then she is seen in her video for Needed To Lose You To Love Me, which has already become a massive success, hitting #1 on the pop charts this year

Kid Cudi worked with Justin in 2014 so there is talent crossover with the exes.

Then she is seen in her video for Lose You To Love Me, which has already become a massive success, hitting #1 on the pop charts this year.

Then on the screen it says HONEST, VULNERABLE and Rare.

Another video: She flashes images from another music video

Looking better than ever: Selena slayed at the American Music Awards in November

The cover art is of Gomez wearing a shirt that says Rare and laying down on the floor with her eyes closed.

The album cover is mostly white only with a pop of pink on her shirt, lending a 1980s vibe.

The songs hint that they are about the heartbreak over her split from Bieber whom she first started dating in 2011.

Lose You To Love Me certainly is about having to break up with Justin to be happy.

And considering some of the song titles - Vulnerable and Cut You Off - it seems that there will be even more about Justin.