Last night, she was crowned winner of the Apprentice and received £250,000 investment from Lord Sugar.

And victory still tastes sweet for Carina Lepore whose artisan bakery has been flooded with a string of celebrities in the wake of success.

Boxing champion Anthony Joshua, actor Bill Nighy and footballer Wilfried Zaha have flocked to Dough in Herne Hill, south London, to sample her treats.

In a final boardroom showdown aired on BBC 1, Lepore, 31, beat Scarlett Allen-Horton to clinch the prize and plum partnership with the business tycoon.

The episode saw both contestants present their business plans before an audience of industry leaders in London's imposing City Hall.

Despite concerns over scalability, Lepore persuaded Lord Sugar to back her plan to burgeon her family-run bakery into a nationwide chain.

Her impressive baked goods, which are prided for using fresh produce, has also won plaudits in the celebrity stratosphere.

Victory still tastes sweet for Carina Lepore whose artisan bakery has been flooded with a string of celebrities in the wake of success

World champion Joshua, who is treating himself after retaking the heavyweight titles in a crunch rematch this month, gave the bakery's smoothies the thumbs-up on Instagram

Crystal Palace star Zaha was pictured on social media tucking into a slice of cake at Lepore's bakery

Crystal Palace star Zaha was pictured on social media tucking into a slice of cake at Lepore's bakery.

And world champion Joshua, who is treating himself after retaking the heavyweight titles in a crunch rematch this month, gave the bakery's smoothies the thumbs-up on Instagram.

Lepore's sister Rachelle joked: 'If the champ said the smoothies good.... then the smoothies damn good!'

Lord Sugar's apprentice also captioned a picture of herself with Nighy 'Christmas is all around us', a reference to the song the actor performed in 2003 festive classic Love Actually.

Other social media snaps show the winner with her Italian father Carlo, 57, in the bakery's kitchen.

Having always wanted a coffee shop, the mother-of-one decided to join forces with her own father to open Dough in February 2018.

Lord Sugar's apprentice also captioned a picture of herself with Nighy 'Christmas is all around us', a reference to the song the actor performed in 2003 festive classic Love Actually

In a final boardroom showdown aired on BBC 1, Lepore, 31, beat Scarlett Allen-Horton to clinch the prize and plum partnership with the business tycoon

Dough prides itself on warm, personal customer services - and its range of freshly-baked loafs, cakes, pastries and smoothies. Pictured, Lepore outside the London coffee shop

Lepore strikes a pose in a festive snap shared recently, left, and in a trendy white outfit, right

During the show, Lepore was dubbed 'the baker who can't bake', because her father is the brains behind the pastries while she runs the company.

Her sister Rachelle, 28, who also works alongside the pair, posted an emotional tribute.

She said: 'Carina you are not only my sister, you are my role model, my inspiration and my best friend.

'I just want you to know how friggin proud I am of you!

'We have been working together for over 10 years now and I can't believe I've been so lucky to share everything with you!

'You were always born to do amazing things, we came together and made dough and set goals and plans and have never looked back.

'You are such a sick amazing business woman and you're about to make our dream into an empire and for that I say thank you.

'You're just incredible I can't put into words proud is an UNDERSTATEMENT'

Lepore with her father Carlos and sister Rachelle at Dough Bakehouse in Herne Hill, south London

The mother has built up the business while raising her son Lucas, seven, a child model who has posed for Marks & Spencer and River Island (pictured together)

Lepore , far right, strikes a pose with baker David Bell, far left, and other members of Dough Bakehouse staff in a photo shared on the company website

Lord Sugar's dough will help Lepore build her business after her father's bakery was gutted in 2015.

She declared she felt 'over the moon' after beating recruitment company founder Allen-Horton, 32, in Wednesday night's final.

The mother-of-one, who already employs nine people, aims to open two more shops in 2020.

She hopes her seven-year-old son Lucas, a child model who has posed for Marks & Spencer and River Island, will learn that you can 'live your dreams'.

She added: 'I've always wanted to work with Lord Sugar, have my own shop, my own brand. I am living my dream.'

Lepore is statistically the most successful ever Apprentice candidate, winning nine out of ten tasks and never being brought back to the final boardroom, where contestants can be 'fired'.

Announcing the winner, Lord Sugar quipped: 'I'm trying to think of the scaling up of your business but I like the idea of more bread - so Carina, you're going to be my business partner.'

Carina said the bakehouse prides itself on its fresh produce - especially bread - and friendly customer service.

She said: 'Not everyone wants a Tesco cheap cheese sandwich - that's not going to make someone's lunch nice.'