She recently revealed she's been battling with 'severe anxiety' during her pregnancy.

And Millie Mackintosh treated herself to some well-deserved me-time as she enjoyed a shopping trip to Notting Hill's Ba&sh in London on Thursday afternoon.

The former Made In Chelsea star, 30, looked typically radiant as she tried on a series of ensembles, including a multi-coloured frilly number, before leaving the clothing store in a floral-print dress.

Style chameleon: Millie Mackintosh treated herself to some well-deserved me-time as she enjoyed a shopping trip to Notting Hill's Ba&sh in London on Thursday afternoon

Highlighting her growing baby bump, the media personality slipped into a flowy midi-dress during her time at the designer store, complete with balloon-inspired sleeves.

The reality star later switched into a cable-knit black jumper, which she teamed with an animal print maxi skirt.

On exit from Ba&sh, the blonde beauty looked as chic as ever in a dark floor-length dress, which was decorated in patterns of colourful branches.

Millie maintained her stylish display with her choice of accessories as she rounded off her outfit with a pair of gold hooped earrings.

Bumping along: The former Made In Chelsea star, 30, looked typically radiant as she tried on a series of ensembles, including a multi-coloured frilly number

Radiant: Highlighting her growing baby bump, the media personality slipped into a flowy midi-dress during her time at the designer store, complete with balloon-inspired sleeves

In her element: The TV star played with bodice of the dress during her time at the designer store

Second look: The reality star later switched into a cable-knit black jumper, which she teamed with an animal print maxi skirt

Candid: She recently revealed she's been battling with 'severe anxiety' during her pregnancy

Heading off: On exit from Ba&sh, the blonde beauty looked as chic as ever in a dark floor-length dress, which was decorated in patterns of colourful branches

The social media influencer wore her tresses in loose waves, while her pregnancy glow was enhanced with neutral-toned make-up.

Millie is currently around 18 weeks pregnant with her first child, with she and husband Hugo Taylor, 33, set to welcome their baby girl in May 2020.

The television personality admitted her journey to motherhood has been 'a bit of an emotional rollercoaster' so far as she detailed her battle with 'severe anxiety' in the lead-up to the birth of her daughter.

Writing on her Instagram page last Friday, she said: 'My pregnancy journey so far... I'm not going to lie it's been a bit of an emotional rollercoaster.

'Bursting into tears for no apparent reason has become a weekly occurrence (sorry Hugo!) coupled with nausea, vomiting (not just in the morning - the evening sickness was worse for me)...

Standing tall: The mother-to-be strutted across the streets of the English capital in a pair of chunky black leather boots

Happy shopper: She carried her purchases in a shopper bag from the store

Glowing: Millie maintained her stylish display with her choice of accessories as she rounded off her outfit with a pair of gold hooped earrings

Stunning: The social media influencer wore her tresses in loose waves, while her pregnancy glow was enhanced with neutral-toned make-up

Here she is! Millie shared her shopping trip with her Instagram followers as she posted this snap on her page

'My baby girl is getting big': Earlier in the day, Millie recently revealed her unborn daughter is now the size of a mango as she kept her followers updated on her journey

'Heartburn, breakouts, headaches, mood swings, bloating, insomnia, seriously sensitive boobs, tiredness, cravings, sciatica and a constant metallic taste in my mouth which makes everything taste disgusting!'

Millie told her followers she was finding it difficult to keep her mental health in check amid fears surrounding the birth of her baby girl and how she will 'cope' when the little one arrives.

She added: 'Trying to keep on top of my mental health is proving a little trickier than usual. I'm still practicing mindfulness and daily meditation (as I normally would) but have had moments of severe anxiety on multiple occasions.

'I have found over the last few months that I have unexplainable (sic) fear which constantly switches from "something is wrong with the baby" to "how I will cope when the baby arrives?" and don't get me started on the BIRTH!

'I'm sure all new mums go through this and I am no different but would be great to hear from any of you who have been through similar things or have any suggestions on how to lessen these worries.'

Millie and Hugo announced they were expecting their first child last month, and the excited mother-to-be admitted she was thrilled to be having a girl.

Tough: The former Made In Chelsea personality admitted her journey to motherhood has been 'a bit of an emotional rollercoaster' so far

Speaking to Hello! when she confirmed her pregnancy, she shared: 'I'm so excited it's a girl. I would've been delighted with either, but when I found out we were having a girl, I suddenly realised this is what I really wanted.'

Millie and Hugo tied the knot in June 2018 at his uncle's country estate, Whithurst Park in West Sussex, one year after he proposed during a holiday to the Greek island of Mykonos.

The couple briefly dated during their Made In Chelsea days back in 2011 and reunited in May 2016 shortly after Millie's split from her first husband, rapper Professor Green, 36.

Millie was married to the musician, real name Stephen Manderson, for two-and-a-half years before they announced their split in February 2016.