A 10-year-old girl has been left terrified after finding an owl roosting in her family Christmas tree.

India Newman was inspecting ornaments on the tree at her home in Newnan, Georgia last Thursday when the bird suddenly turned its head.

Mom Kate McBride Newman told CNN on Wednesday that her daughter rushed into the dining room and burst into tears, stating: 'Mama, that ornament scared me!'

McBride Newman actually has a dozen owl ornaments decorating her Christmas tree and initially thought India was spooked by one of those. However, she soon confirmed that there was indeed a real bird perched upon the pine.

The family left their windows and doors open during the night in order for the owl to leave the home - but it refused to fly away.

The next evening, McBride Newman's husband found the brazen bird sitting at the top of the tree - clearly feeling comfortable with with its new home.

India Newman of Georgia was left terrified after discovering a real life owl roosting in her Christmas tree last Thursday

The family left doors and windows open for the bird to flee, but it refused to budge from it's cozy spot in the tree

On Saturday, an employee of the Chattahoochee Nature Center arrived to inspect the owl, and claimed that it may have been in the tree for more than a week.

The family purchased the Christmas tree just days after Thanksgiving.

According to the Nature Center employee, the Eastern screech owl looked hungry and suggested that the family feed it some raw chicken.

McBride Newman took to Facebook to share a snap of a plate of meat placed on one of the branches, and added the caption: 'He [the owl] ate some chicken!!! You can see the plate in the tree if you scroll down a bit in the pic. When I peeked around the tree to check on him, he hopped back up to his perch on the higher branch'.

She hilariously added the hashtag 'OwlGate'.

On Saturday, an employee of the Chattahoochee Nature Center arrived to inspect the owl, and claimed that it may have been in the tree for more than a week

McBride Newman took to Facebook to share a snap of the plate of meat placed on one of the branches, which the owl gobbled fown

On Saturday evening, with the owl still refusing leave the home on its own accord, the family prepared to catch and release the bird into the wild.

The Chattahoochee Nature Center managed to take the owl from the tree before placing it into a pet carrier.

The Newman family then took the bird to release it into the dark, following instructions from the animal experts.

McBride Newman told her Facebook followers after the event: 'We owe so much thanks to the Chattahoochee Nature Center Wildlife team - truly good samaritans who saved our Christmas Owl - please support them!'

The mom told CNN that although the family now misses their unexpected guest, she believes she 'can still hear the owl hooting away at night'.