Megan Barton Hanson was spotted sharing a playful kiss with a male friend on Wednesday night - after swearing off the opposite sex forever.

The Love Island star couldn't keep her hands off her cosmetic surgeon companion as they canoodled on the street outside the Studio 66 Xmas party in central London, looking very cosy together.

The 25-year-old beauty, who was working as a stripper prior to appearing on the ITV2 show, was a guest of honour at the bash celebrating the X-rated TV channel for glamour models and webcam girls.

Looking cosy: Megan Barton Hanson was spotted sharing a kiss with a a male friend outside a London club on Wednesday night - despite swearing off the opposite sex forever

Sealed with a kiss: The Love Island star planted a smacker on her cosmetic surgeon companion's lips before bidding him goodnight

An insider told MailOnline Megan’s pal is a doctor who has previously done some filler work on her, but the pair are just friends.

Megan left the club with her pal at around 2.30am, lacing an arm around his waist as they chatted.

The TV personality, who is alleged to have split from girlfriend Chelcee Grimes, appeared to have well and truly moved on.

Looking cool in a casual leather ensemble, Megan showed off her tanned legs in a zip embellished skirt.

She paired the look with a studded jacket, ankle boots and a matching bag with silver detailing, pulling her hair into a top knot.

Pucker up: Megan couldn't keep her hands off her companion as they canoodled on the street outside the Studio 66 Xmas party in central London, looking very cosy together

Just friends? An insider told MailOnline Megan’s pal is a doctor who has previously done some filler work on her

Moving on: The TV personality, who is alleged to have split from girlfriend Chelcee Grimes, appeared to have well and truly moved on

The brunette stunner accentuated her plump pout with a slick of scarlet lipstick and sported a pair of stud earrings.

The sighting comes after she previously said she would never go near a man again.

The star, who famously dated her Love Island 2018 co-star Wes Nelson until their bitter split at the start of the year, identifies as bisexual.

Going in for the kill: The pair appeared to be sharing a kiss as they parted ways

Tactile: The duo were seen holding hands before Megan called it a night

Calling it a night: Megan left the club with her pal at around 2.30am, lacing an arm around his waist as they chatted

Speaking on dating app Badoo's podcast The Truth Flirts with Spice Girl Mel B, Megan said: 'With girls it's so much deeper. When you go on a first date with a guy it'll be very, bit of banter...

'With the girl you know about the ex, you know about the ex ex, what you want to do in 10 years, 5 years, it's just, a lot.

'This was my first relationship with a girl [with on/off ex Chelcee] and it was only two months but it was so much deeper than I've ever had with a guy...

Open and honest: The star, who famously dated her Love Island 2018 co-star Wes Nelson until their bitter split at the start of the year, identifies as bisexual

Taxi! The pair looked very tactile as they waited for Megan's cab to arrive

Glamorous: Looking cool in a casual leather ensemble, Megan showed off her tanned legs in a zip embellished skirt

'I'd say I prefer dating girls, it's more romantic and cutesy. I can't ever see myself getting back with a guy.

'Even now when I watch porn it's only lesbian porn, I can't even look at d**k'.

Pushing further on the difference between dating men and women, she said: 'There are some men out there, and some women, that as soon as they start dating and they see their other half putting on a little bit of weight...

Pucker up: The beauty accentuated her plump pout with a slick of scarlet lipstick

Pals: The sighting comes as something of a surprise as she previously said she would never go near a man again

Megan said: 'I'd say I prefer dating girls, it's more romantic and cutesy. I can't ever see myself getting back with a guy'

'They'll either dump them or make a point of saying to them 'you've put on weight, get back to what you used to look like'. Which I think is out of order and very rude. I do think that dating women is very different to dating men...

'I had a five-year relationship with a woman and it was an intense five years but it was actually a really beautiful five years...

'We barely kind of argued, because we both thought the same, wanted the same out of life. It was really interesting when I actually compare it to my other relationships.'

Megan is said to have split from Chelcee after discovering they were both messaging the same woman.

Ex: Megan and Chelcee Grimes (pictured together in September) split after discovering they were both messaging the same woman

The pair were exposed by newly-single nightlife entrepreneur Teddy Edwardes.

The tattooed beauty tweeted: 'I've got a girl and her girlfriend in my DMs but neither of them know the other is doing it.'

A source told MailOnline Teddy, 29, had been receiving texts from both Megan and Chelcee, despite them being together - and Megan's ex Demi Sims, 23, was also messaging the businesswoman.

An insider revealed: 'Megan and Chelcee were just as bad as each other. They were both sending messages to Teddy without the other one knowing.

Caught out: The ex-couple were exposed by Teddy Edwardes (pictured in June) after she claimed she was receiving messages from a girl and her girlfriend

'Demi was also thrown into the mix. She was sending texts to Teddy as well.

'After Teddy tweeted about the love triangle, Demi sent her post to Megan to stir the pot between her and Chelcee. Megan and Chelcee had huge rows and ended it.'

It was revealed last week that former stripper Megan and footballer Chelcee had parted ways after over a month of dating.

Days before their break-up, Teddy tweeted: 'I've got a girl and her girlfriend in my DMs but neither of them know the other is doing it.

'When do I break the news or do I carry on and mind my business?'

Teddy, who's the founder of events company LICK, which puts on club nights for queer women, is newly-single after being in a relationship for three years.