Line of Duty creator Jed Mercurio left fans speculating he had revealed the identity of bent copper H when he dropped a major clue about series six on Thursday.

The television writer, 52, whipped up a social media storm with viewers of the smash-hit BBC show when he shared a photo of Australian chocolate biscuits TimTams with the caption #LineofDuty Series 6 Plot Clue No. 1.'

Manufactured by Arnott's - the same surname as AC-12 guru DS Steve Arnott (played by Martin Compston)- the cryptic snap sent viewers into a frenzy, with theories ranging from a move to Australia to Steve breaking up with his girlfriend.

H? Line of Duty creator Jed Mercurio left fans speculating he had revealed the identity of bent copper H when he dropped a major clue about series six on Thursday

One fan believes that despite outward appearances , the link is actually to Steve's colleague DI Kate Fleming (played by Vicky McClure)

They wrote: The guy who created the biscuit is called Timothy "Tamworth" FLEMING For a company called ARNOTTS Nothing is a coincidence on this show! BUT WHAT DOES IT MEAN, I think my head is exploding...

Another fan predicted a move Down Under for Steve, writing: 'Its set in Australia? or does Steve get slammed? OMG cant wait.'

A third wrote: 'Clearly this will be taking him to Australia for some kind of filming.'

'We're sucking diesel now!"': The television writer, 52, whipped up a social media storm with viewers of the smash-hit BBC show when he shared a photo of Australian chocolate biscuits TimTams with the caption #LineofDuty Series 6 Plot Clue No. 1.'

A whimsical viewer wrote: 'Steve's going to leave the force and set up a biscuit company?'

My theory is the biscuit company is Arnott's and the biscuit bar is breaking so Steve will have broken up with his girlfriend and be investigating her or someone in his department.'

Another fan wrote: 'Tamworth two, pigs, coppers are known as pigs.'

The most recent episode of Line Of Duty, series five’s finale on BBC One back in May, is the most watched programme of the year so far, with a 28-day figure of 13.7 million viewers across all TV and online viewing.

Bent copper? Manufactured by Arnott's - the same surname as AC-12 guru DS Steve Arnott (played by Martin Compston - the cryptic snap sent viewers into a frenzy

You push from the outside: One fan believes that despite outward appearances , the link is actually to Steve's colleague DI Kate Fleming (played by Vicky McClure)

During the jaw-dropping episode, Jed dropped the bombshell there was not just one super villain H but four caddies.

Steve discovered the vital clue when a clip of DI Matthew 'Dot' Cottan's dying declaration was played during AC-12 boss Ted Hasting's interrogation with Patricia Carmichael (Anna Maxwell-Martin).

Mercurio has revealed that we should expect a sixth series in 2020 – but there has been no confirmation of this as yet.

He told RadioTimes.com in October 2019, 'I would hope it’s sometime in 2020, next year.'

Theory: Fans went wild at the cryptic photo and tried to guess the series spoiler

Move? Another fan predicted a move Down Under for Steve, writing: 'Its set in Australia? or does Steve get slammed? OMG cant wait.

Kelly Macdonald has joined the cast of Line Of Duty as 'the most enigmatic adversary AC-12 have ever faced'.

The actress, 43, will guest star in the sixth season of the BBC drama as Detective Chief Inspector Joanne Davidson, the senior investigating officer of an unsolved murder, whose 'unconventional' conduct raises suspicion with the anti-corruption unit.

Kelly will start work on Line of Duty series six when filming begins next year, opposite series leads Martin, Vicky and Adrian Dunbar, 61, (Ted Hastings) who are also confirmed to return.

Something for the pocketbook: Back in November the show's creator Jed shared a snap of the cast dining

LINE OF DUTY: WHO IS THE FOURTH 'H'? Line Of Duty creator Jed Mercurio excited fans when he shared the first clue about the plot of season six to Twitter. Uploading a snap of a packet of the Australian chocolate biscuits TimTams with the caption '#LineofDuty Series 6 Plot Clue No. 1', fans began to ferociously speculate as to what it might mean. But one plot point hanging over the next season of the show is about the identity of the ominous 'H'. While the mystery was somewhat answered in the season five finale, it was also revealed that there are FOUR people pertaining to be 'H', with the final one still unknown. So who could it be? Patricia Carmichael (Anna Maxwell Martin) Patricia Carmichael (Anna Maxwell Martin) She was one of season five's stand-out characters, swooping in towards the end of the series to interrogate Ted Hastings - highly suspected to be 'H' at the time. And while she simply seemed to be excellent at her job - and hellbent on uncovering the corruption within the department - could it be that Patricia Carmichael was SO keen to pin the blame on Ted to take the focus away from herself. Could SHE be the fourth 'H'? Her position of power and respect, along with her unnaturally steely and cut-throat demeanor, could well point to this. Ted Hastings (Adrian Dunbar) Ted Hastings (Adrian Dunbar) Ted Hastings was pinpointed by viewers of the show, as well as the characters on the show, to be a candidate for 'H'. But it seemed he was exonerated by the end of season five, allowed to walk free. But could be potentially be triple-crossing us all? Could he in fact STILL be the potential fourth 'H'. The biggest issue with this theory is that Gill Biggeloe - one of the three revealed to be 'H' - was so against him. Surely she wouldn't be working to deter him if they were in league? UNLESS, she doesn't KNOW he is the fourth 'H'? DCC Andrea Wise (Elizabeth Rider) DCC Andrea Wise (Elizabeth Rider) Detective Chief Constable Andrea Wise was new to the show in season five and is another high-powered contender for 'H'. She has been constantly interfering when it has come to supporting AC-12’s investigations, removing them from the investigation into Operation Pear Tree. She also instigated the Ted Hastings investigation. She is also keen to cover up police corruption, despite announcing at the end of season five: 'This constabulary will work tirelessly to root out rotten apples in its ranks.' PCC Rohan Sindwhani (Ace Bhatti) PCC Rohan Sindwhani (Ace Bhatti) Police and Crime Commissioner Rohan Sindwhani demanded to be 'in on' a meeting between Andrea Wise and Ted Hastings. This might be a small clue but any clue could be valid at this point. Any shady behavior suggests 'H' is at play, and so Rohan could indeed be culpable.

Jed said: 'We're honoured that Kelly Macdonald will join Martin, Vicky and Adrian in Series 6 of Line of Duty.

'DCI Joanne Davidson will prove the most enigmatic adversary AC-12 have ever faced.'

Kelly will follow in the footsteps of the likes of Keeley Hawes (series two and three), Thandie Newton (series four) and Stephen Graham (series five), all of whom have been big name additions to the cast of the police corruption drama.