Retailers welcomed plans to extend business rate relief today but warned that it was only a 'sticking plaster' measure that would temporarily help Britain's struggling high streets.

The Queen's Speech contained plans to increase the retail discount on rates from a third to 50 per cent, at a cost of £320 million, for thousands of shops, pubs and restaurants across England and Wales.

The Tories also plan to bring forward a planned revision of business rates from 2022 to 2021 and shorten the gap between reviews from five to three years.

High streets have been badly affected by closures and administrations in recent years as firms struggle to cope with soaring rents, significant business rates and competition from online giants.

They gave a cautiously warm response to the plans but said the post-Brexit Budget planned for February must contain a raft of 'business-friendly' measures.

Helen Dickinson, chief executive of the British Retail Consortium, said: 'We welcome the continued commitment to a fundamental review of the business rates system and would like to see this formalised in the upcoming Budget.

'It would do far more to help relieve struggling high streets and safeguard jobs and communities than short-term discounts which will only impact some businesses but not all.

'The retail rates discount is just another sticking plaster that ducks the real crisis facing high streets especially in vulnerable areas of England already suffering from years of economic decline and falling rents.

High streets have been badly affected by closures and administrations in recent years as firms struggle to cope with soaring rents, significant business rates and competition from online giants.

The Tories also plan to bring forward a planned revision of business rates from 2022 to 2021 and shorten the gap between reviews from five to three years.

'However, it's good to see the commitment to bring back the revaluation legislation that will help business' rates bills more accurately reflect the rents they pay. This must be done urgently.'

The policy matches the Conservatives' manifesto commitment to reduce business rates and implement the tax break across shops, restaurants, pubs and cinemas from April.

The tax break will be implemented across more than 400,000 retail properties which have a rateable value under £51,000.

The details from the Government are expected to be revealed more fully at the budget next year, alongside a review of the current rates regime.

The Queen told Parliament: 'To support business my Government will increase tax credit for research and development, establish a national skills fund and bring forward changes to business rates.'

The Conservatives had already promised in the last parliament to change the revaluation - which determines how big the rates bill should be - from every five years to every three years.

This was slated for a vote, but following the prorogation of parliament the bill for the new legislation was dropped - despite an estimated £50 million already spent on preparations.

Revaluations are a major sticking point for retailers, with many saying they create an artificially high rates bill.

Federation of Small Businesses (FSB) national chairman Mike Cherry said: 'We've fought hard to secure an extension of the business rates retail discount. Today, we've seen the first step towards that extension being enshrined in law.

'Our small high street businesses are faced with a hugely challenging environment – confidence among small retailers has tumbled to new depths this year.

This reduction in the £25 billion business rates burden promises to help breathe new life into our small shops, restaurants and cinemas.

'It's vital that this Queen's Speech is now followed-up with a business-friendly Budget in the new year, one that encompasses the fundamental review of the regressive rates system promised today.'

Earlier this week, Sports Direct's Mike Ashley called for an overhaul of business rates, pointing out he would have to start closing some unprofitable House of Fraser stores, which pay no rent but have rates bills based on outdated valuations of the properties.

Mr Ashley said on Monday: 'All I want to do is pay the right amount of rates. We have stores that are massively profitable that pay too little rates. The rating system is such a joke. It's so broken and unworkable.'