Australians would be banned from having Christmas parties or even using the words 'mum' or 'guys' at work if corporate activists for political correctness get their way.

The Diversity Council of Australia (DCA) is so concerned about people being offended it seeks to overturn long-held traditions.

Major banks, corporate giants and government agencies such as the ABC and the Australian Human Rights Commission fund its PC crusade.

Now the DCA is calling for the term 'Christmas parties' to be replaced with 'holiday season drinks'.

Scroll down for video

Australians would be banned from having Christmas parties or even using the words 'mum' or 'guys' at work if activists for political correctness had their way (stock image)

The Diversity Council's war on Australia Christmas parties: they should be reconsidered so non-Christians aren't offended Hurtful words: 'mum' shouldn't be written in workplace kitchens while 'guys' excludes women Alcohol: workplaces are urged to avoid serving alcohol without food at parties as part of 'tackling Islamophobia' Pronouns: terms like he or she should be avoided when addressing transgender individuals. 'In some cases a person may choose to use pronouns that do not reference gender at all (‘they’/’them’/’their’),' it said in a guide for RMIT University in Melbourne

After receiving adverse publicity, it issued a terse statement on Thursday defending its Creating Inclusive Multi-Faith Workplaces guidelines.

'At no stage has DCA ever urged bosses not to mention Christmas,' it said.

'We are simply saying that it's worth remembering that many Australians do not celebrate Christmas religiously, either as followers of non-Christian religions, or as individuals with no religious affiliation, and there is a lot organisations can do to make them feel included at this time of year.'

The Diversity Council has previously called on workplaces to avoid serving alcohol without food as part of 'tackling Islamophobia'.

New South Wales One Nation MP Mark Latham said the campaign against Christmas parties was an 'absurdity'.

'For them to be pretending that somehow people are offended by all of this, there's something wrong with Christmas, they're making this up to try and get some petty relevance,' he told Daily Mail Australia on Thursday.

'They're very extreme - extreme in their delusion.'

The Institute of Public Affairs, a free market think tank that advocates free speech, suggested the Diversity Council had invented victims.

In a video, the Diversity Council demanded an end of memos next to dirty dishes that read: 'Clean up after yourself. Your mum doesn't work here.' Railing against the perceived gender stereotype, he pulled out a red marker and wrote, 'Dad'

New South Wales One Nation MP Mark Latham said their campaign against Christmas was an 'absurdity'

'The staff at the council appear to be looking for victims who simply don't exist,' the group's director of Western civilisation studies Bella d'Abrera told Daily Mail Australia.

'The council has to create problems where there are none in order to justify its existence.'

The council's chairman David Morrison, a former Army chief and Australian of the Year, two years ago launched a crusade again the idea of funny signs being put up in workplace kitchens.

In a video, he demanded an end of memos next to dirty dishes that read: 'Clean up after yourself. Your mum doesn't work here.'

Railing against gender stereotypes, he pulled out a red marker and wrote, 'Dad'.

He also made another video suggesting calling colleagues 'guys' at work excluded women.

Its Words at Work guide also deems the word 'chairman' to be sexist.

The Diversity Council last year reaped almost $2.6million from corporate sponsors and in membership fees.

National Australia Bank sponsored an annual 'diversity debate'.

Professional services giant KPMG and British investment bank HSBC have sponsored forums exploring why affirmative action was necessary to boost the number of women in workplaces.

Mr Latham, a former federal Labor leader, called on the NSW government and public companies to stop paying the Diversity Council of Australia to hold workshops for their staff.

'They're funded not just by big businesses who are wasting their money and should have better regard for their shareholder value - they're actually funded by a whole bunch of government agencies,' he said.

'It's also taxpayers' funds that obviously could be a lot better spent on actual service delivery.'

Dr d'Abrera said the Diversity Council's identity politics agenda was a threat to the foundations of Western civilisation, which regarded everyone as being equal under the law.

The Diversity Council's chief executive Lisa Annese declined to comment

'It's using identity politics to divide Australians into class, race and gender,' she said.

'It's not the way mainstream Australians are wanting to be dictated to.'

The Diversity Council's chief executive Lisa Annese declined to address the concerns raised by Mr Latham and the IPA when contacted by Daily Mail Australia.

The Diversity Council of Australia was established in 1985 as a joint venture between the Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Business Council of Australia to advance women.

The group, previously known as the Council for Equal Opportunity in Employment Ltd, was intially founded by ANZ and Westpac, mining giants BHP and Rio Tinto, supermarket giant Coles and department store chain Myer.

Corporate giants and government agencies continue to be among its 600 members, including the ABC, the Australian Human Rights Commission and the Australian Federal Police.