A cyclist has been slammed for riding his bicycle with one hand holding a young child and the other on the handlebar on a city street.

Footage shows the pair pedalling along a narrow street in Bristol city centre without helmets.

A man stops to watch them ride past on Cotham Hill in Bristol on December 11.

A cyclist has been slammed for riding one-handed. He held a small child on his hip while holding the handlebar with the other hand on Cotham Hill, Bristol. Local residents stopped to watch as the 'reckless' cyclist drifted along the road

The little child appears unphased as they perch on the 'reckless' adult's hip through the street lined with parked cars.

Moments later, a silver Honda vehicle is seen pulling out of a parking bay on the other side of the narrow road, just as the man cycles past it.

The man and young child, who is estimated to be around three years old, wore matching orange jackets.

Viewers say the video demonstrates the 'uncaring, dangerous and often 'couldn't give a damn' cycling community in Bristol' and are demanding an investigation. The little child is thought to be three years old, according to an eyewitness

An eyewitness said: 'The question is why? Why would you put your child in danger? Imagine if he was involved in an accident.'

He added how wearing a helmet should be compulsory for all cyclists.

'When my son was 14, he was cycling home from school and he came off his bike, cracking his helmet.

'That could have been his skull. That's why I am always like, 'Wear a helmet for God's sake.'

The pair were filmed without helmets on December 11. Some say the adult should be prosecuted for 'dangerous riding and endangering the life of a minor'

Nicholas Foxwell wrote on Facebook: 'As a keen cyclist I can hand on heart say that man should be in serious trouble for endangering a child and cycling without due care and attention.

'It's people like this that give us cyclist a bad name.'

Terry Nichols added: 'What an irresponsible pillock. He should be prosecuted for dangerous riding and endangering the life of a minor.'

Meanwhile, Twitter user Red68 wrote: 'Incidents like this one make my blood boil - but very regrettably are typical of the uncaring, dangerous and often 'couldn't give a damn' cycling community in Bristol.

'Please someone in Authority take some strong and appropriate action to bring these ne'er do wells under control.'

It is not mandatory for cyclists to wear a helmet, but it is illegal under the Road Traffic Act to carry a passenger on a bike unless it has been specially designed or adapted for this.

Jon Usher, of cycling charity Sustrans, said family cycles, cargo cycles or any cycle fitted with a child seat fit within the law.

Parents have a responsibility to make sure their children 'are safe and feel safe when they are cycling together'.

Sustrans added how helmets 'don't prevent collisions' so measures to create a safe cycling network should be taken.

The bike in the footage did not appear to fit that description. The witness has not reported the incident to police.