She has brushed off claims she is feuding with her This Morning co-host Phillip Schofield and even said she would quit if he was to leave.

And Holly Willoughby showed off her stellar sense of style as she grabbed a coffee at Gail's bakery in Barnes, west London, on Thursday while enjoying her long Christmas break from the ITV show.

The TV presenter, 38, cut a casual figure for the outing, donning a green top which she paired with blue ankle-grazing jeans.

Low-key look: Holly Willoughby, 38, showed off her stellar sense of style as she grabbed a coffee at Gail's bakery in Barnes, west London, on Thursday

The TV star wrapped up for the frosty winter weather in a black coat while she let her blonde locks fall loose down her shoulders.

Also sporting a black leather satchel bag personalised with her name, the Dancing On Ice host completed her look with a pair of grey trainers.

Carrying her shopping, Holly looked in high spirits as she made her way back to her car with a cup of coffee in hand.

The outing comes after Holly was awkwardly quizzed about 'difficult co-hosts' during an appearance on The One Show on Wednesday.

Radiant: The TV star wrapped up for the frosty winter weather in a black coat while she let her blonde locks fall loose down her shoulders

Hosts Patrick Kielty and Alex Scott claimed that there has been a lot of talk about tricky co-hosts in the media at the moment, potentially hinting at the furore currently surrounding This Morning's Phillip Schofield.

They then said they were going to ask Holly one question on the topic, to which she seemed slightly confused and simply replied saying: 'Oh!'.

However rather than asking about her rumoured feud with Phillip, 57, they instead asked what it was like to work with Bradley Walsh on their one-off Christmas special Take Off With Bradley and Holly.

Holly joked: 'He's a complete nightmare because he never knows what's going on Normally with Phil I can sit back a bit and relax.'

Patrick chimed in: 'Because Phil's a professional!'

Style: Holly cut a casual figure for the outing, donning a green top which she paired with blue ankle-grazing jeans

Agreeing with Patrick and once again dismissing any hint of a feud, Holly said: 'Phil's a professional, this one comes in and is like "right the rules are this, go on H you tell them!" And I'm like "ahh", basically I have to do my homework.

Bradley added: 'I let H do the heavy lifting and I mess around for three hours.'

Holly then said: 'See! I have three kids, and now I have four!'

Holly recently declared she'd quit her presenting stint on This Morning if her co-host Phillip left the daytime TV programme.

In a clip from Monday's upcoming episode of Shopping With Keith Lemon, the ITV star, admitted she couldn't imagine fronting the show without her TV husband, amid rumours of the feud between the pair.

Caffeine fix: Also sporting a black leather satchel bag personalised with her name, the Dancing On Ice host completed her look with a pair of grey trainers

The bubbly media personality - who has been the face of This Morning for 10 years - enthused she feels as if she's hosting the series 'forever', and has been a 'big fan' since Phillip presented the show with Fern Britton from 1999 until 2009.

During a spot of retail therapy with comedian Keith, 46, Holly was quizzed on the steps she would take in her career if her friend Phillip ever decided to leave the show.

Highlighting their close bond, she shared: 'If he left This Morning... well we've always said from the beginning that if either of us left then we wouldn't want to do it as I can't imagine This Morning without Phil, it's us together!'

The former Surprise Surprise host later admitted it took her a while to feel confident on the show following years of feeling like 'the new girl', after taking the role from Fern, 62, in September 2009.

Casual: Carrying her shopping, Holly looked in high spirits as she made her way back to her car with a cup of coffee in hand

She explained: 'I've been doing it for 10 years, it feels like forever! For a long time I felt like the new girl, I was a big fan of watching the show.

'Watching Phil and Ferne, they were my This Morning presenters. So when I say it feels like forever, it's because it's so nice!'

Injecting the episode with some of his signature humour, Holly's Celebrity Juice co-star joked: 'I think we're getting too deep now and I want to get deeper but not in front of the escalator where I can hear it whilst I'm talking so let's go somewhere else!'

Awks! It comes after Holly was awkwardly quizzed about 'difficult co-hosts' during an appearance on The One Show on Wednesday

What's that about? Hosts Patrick Kielty and Alex Scott claimed that there has been a lot of talk about tricky co-hosts in the media at the moment, potentially hinting at the furore currently surrounding This Morning's Phillip Schofield

On Thursday, the award-winning duo filmed their final episode of This Morning before the New Year.

The pair treated themselves to a glass of champagne as they wished their viewers a merry Christmas before giving each other a peck on the cheek.

Earlier this month, Phillip was accused of creating a 'toxic atmosphere' for his This Morning co-stars, with allegations of ongoing spats with Holly and stand-in hosts Ruth Langsford and Eamonn Holmes.

It is claimed eight different ITV presenters have broken their silence regarding Phillip's attitude.

Stronger than ever: The ITV star admitted she couldn't imagine fronting the show without her TV husband amid rumours of a feud between the pair

A report stated the situation behind the scenes at This Morning had become 'toxic' in recent months, with employees too scared to speak out publicly for fear of backlash.

An ITV source told The Sun: 'For so long people have been silenced because they are scared for their job. If they speak out publicly about the atmosphere they fear there could be repercussions.'

An insider close to Holly added: 'It’s true there have been some issues. They’re like brothers and sisters - they have ups and downs but love each other.'

The Mail On Sunday revealed relations between Phillip, Ruth, 59, and Eamonn, 60, are said to be so bad that the couple snubbed the show’s Christmas party to avoid him.

Holly said: we've always said from the beginning that if either of us left then we wouldn't want to do it as I can't imagine This Morning without Phil, it's us together!'

The Friday presenters were surprisingly absent last week from the no-expense-spared dinner at a West London restaurant where 23 of their colleagues enjoyed a four-course meal and champagne.

Hitting back at the reports, a spokesperson for ITV said: 'It’s deeply disappointing and unfair for Phillip to be the target of this sort of malicious gossip.

'Phillip is a much respected broadcaster and colleague and this is absolutely not a description of This Morning that we recognise.

'Holly and Phil are great friends both on and off screen and are popular among viewers and colleagues alike.'

Claims: Phillip has been accused of creating a 'toxic atmosphere' for his This Morning co-stars Holly and stand-in hosts Ruth Langsford and Eamonn Holmes (pictured earlier this month)

Phil also slammed the rumours as he discussed their sibling-like relationship during last week's Dancing On Ice launch.

The TV star said: 'Can you imagine a feud between us ever happening? It's not as if we have to defend anything.

'It's a shame… we are so open on the show, we are so open online and we go on holiday together. Holly is the sister I never had, we think at the same speed. It's so organic… it's a shame.

'Everyone who knows us, I mean, everyone at This Morning was like, "What the hell?" The atmosphere in our studio is so wonderful, there's such a lovely team. Everyone is lovely.'