Mikel Arteta will be confirmed as Arsenal’s new manager on Friday as it emerged the Gunners DID contact Manchester City over the pursuit of their coach.

The 37-year-old has agreed a three-and-a-half-year deal worth around £5million a year to replace Unai Emery, ending Arsenal’s three-week search for a boss.

Arteta bid an emotional farewell to the Manchester City squad and staff on Thursday before travelling to London ahead of his unveiling.

Mikel Arteta is set to return to his former club Arsenal and be confirmed as their manager

Arsenal did keep Manchester City informed of their pursuit of the Spaniard to be manager

His return to the Emirates has been controversial, with City furious at Arsenal’s conduct when they set about luring the Spaniard from the Etihad, where he was manager Pep Guardiola’s No 2.

Arsenal chiefs Vinai Venkatesham and Huss Fahmy were photographed leaving Arteta’s house just after 1am on Monday.

City were furious, and as recently as Wednesday the club were insisting that Arsenal had made no approach to them about Arteta.

However, Sportsmail understands Arsenal did in fact hold talks with City regarding their intention to discuss the vacant manager’s role with Arteta.

Arteta, who has been Pep Guardiola's No 2, will be confirmed as Arsenal's manager on Friday

The former Arsenal midfielder is known to have kept manager Guardiola abreast of developments, while Arsenal’s head of football Raul Sanllehi has known City’s director of football Txiki Begiristain for two decades.

Assertions that Arsenal were not in contact with City have confused Gunners officials.

Arsenal were set on appointing Arteta because of his strong links with former manager Arsene Wenger — as well as the fact Guardiola was his coaching mentor at City.

Arsenal's hierarchy want interim boss Freddie Ljungberg as part of the first-team staff

The 37-year-old will meet his new players and staff on Friday but is not expected to be in charge of Saturday’s lunchtime clash with Everton.

He should be at Goodison Park to watch from the stands, but interim head coach Freddie Ljungberg will take charge of the match.

Sportsmail understands the club is keen for Ljungberg to form part of Arteta’s staff, though the final decision will be left to the new boss.