An 83-year-old Chinese man has had more than 100 bladder stones removed from him in one operation after having trouble urinating for more than 10 years.

The pensioner, known by his surname Liu, recently went to the doctor after experience increasing pain while passing waste, according to a hospital in the eastern province of Jiangsu.

Medics were shocked to discover that the patient's bladder was stuffed with stones of different sizes during medical scans.

Some of the stones removed from the patient's bladder are presented on a tray by doctors at Zhongda Hospital Affiliated to Southeast University in the Chinese city of Nanjing

Medics were shocked to discover that the patient's bladder was stuffed with stones of different sizes during medical scans. They extracted all of the stones in one operation

The case was reported this month by Zhongda Hospital Affiliated to Southeast University in the provincial capital of Nanjing.

Dr Sun Chao from the hospital's department of urology told Pear Video: 'Upon our close inspection, we were surprised to find that his bladder was full off stones.'

Bladder stones are hard lumps of minerals that can form inside the organ when it's not completely empty of urine, the NHS states.

Surgery is often needed to remove the stones, with lasers or stone-crushing devices used to break them up before they are taken out.

Dr Sun Chao (pictured), who treated the man, said his condition was likely to have been caused by benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), a non-cancerous enlargement of the prostate

The medic said the patient had suffered from BPH for more than 10 years without treatment

According to Dr Sun, the elderly patient has suffered from benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) for over a decade, which has made it difficult for him to urinate.

He said the patient had never sought medical attention properly for the condition.

BPH is a non-cancerous enlargement of the prostate, a walnut-sized gland below the bladder. Its main job is to make fluid for semen.

The cause of the condition - which affects around half of men in their 50s and up to 90 per cent of those over 80 - is not fully understood, though one theory is that, as men age, their testosterone levels drop, triggering the growth of prostate cells.

BPH affects around half of men in their 50s and up to 90 per cent of those over 80

Dr Sun told Nanjing Daily that Mr Liu's stones were likely to have been caused by his BPH, combined with the fact that he has Hyperuricemia - a high level of uric acid in one's blood.

Another contributing factor was that Mr Liu did not like drinking water, and it sped up the formation of the stones.

'I have worked in the field for more than 10 years and have never seen a case like this,' Dr Sun said.

He urged middle-aged and elderly men not to ignore symptoms, such as discomfort or pain while passing urine, to prevent stones from forming.