A former Liberal MP who used taxpayers' money to visit strip clubs and drink fine wine has left the country and is staying at a five-star Bali villa.

Former West Australian MP Phil Edman was found to be using taxpayers' money to pay for strippers and 'sugar babies' by the Corruption and Crime Commission.

The report tabled in state parliament on Tuesday said Mr Edman used his allowance, which is meant to be spent on serving the electorate, on personal indulgences including attending the Penthouse Club in Perth four times.

Former West Australian Liberal MP Phil Edman used taxpayers' money to visit strip clubs and quaff fine wine, a report by the Corruption and Crime Commission has revealed

On at least two of those occasions he entertained other people in one of the club's 'champagne rooms'.

He also used the money on wine tours, a helicopter ride, sex with women and to pay berthing fees for his yacht 'Prime Minister'.

Just days after the news broke about his spending, Mr Edman was tracked down and found relaxing in Bali.

When Nine News approached the former MP on the Indonesian island and questioned him, he walked the other way and said: 'You shouldn't be here'.

However, Mr Edman told Seven News while in Bali other MPs will be caught up in the scandal.

'I'm very embarrassed about it, I wish a lot of it didn't happen, there's a lot of mistakes on my side,' he said.

He confessed to spending money on sex, strippers and personal travel but said it was all paid for on his personal credit card before he 'mistakenly claimed it back' on his electoral allowance.

Mr Edman told Seven News while in Bali other MPs will be caught up in the scandal

The former politician said errors were made in the claims and he regrets never checking the books.

Mr Edman also claimed other MPs were with him during the visits to strip clubs, as well as 'well-known media entities'.

He has blamed his electorate officer and accountant, saying he was busy and left his claims 'to the professionals' who did not flag the problems.

But the CCC did not accept that excuse and remained adamant Mr Edman abused his position as MP.

The report also revealed he was in a group of upper house MPs who called themselves the 'Black Hand Gang' and would dine in a private room at a fancy restaurant twice a year, describing them as 'seminars'.

Just days after the news broke about his controversial spending, Mr Edman was caught relaxing in a five-star villa in Bali (pictured)

Former West Australian MP Phil Edman was found to be using taxpayers' money to pay for strippers and 'sugar babies' by the Corruption and Crime Commission

Mr Edman claimed almost $18,000 for the dinners at venues including Lamonts and Silks at Crown Casino between December 2013 and June 2016.

One member raised concerns they would be perceived as 'frivolous frequent taxpayer-funded excuse for an expensive p**s-up'.

But Mr Edman said 'some policy' was discussed at the 'team-building' gatherings, which he arranged.

'There's also a trophy presentation,' he said.

After the CCC raided his business and residence, seizing a laptop, Mr Edman got a former MP and a party official to contact various sitting members to warn them.

'It's got everything, all the emails between all of us, Black Hand Gang dinners, its got the video, there's enough stuff on that f***** computer to bury f***** a lot of people,' he said to a former MP.

The report tabled in state parliament on Tuesday said Mr Edman used his allowance, which is meant to be spent on serving the electorate, on personal indulgences including attending the Penthouse Club (pictured) in Perth four times

The CCC said it had also looked at his claims for vehicle use, Christmas functions, PayPal purchases, clothing, lotto syndicates, home insurance, private yacht expenses, and meals with family and friends - but had been hampered by the Legislative Council blocking access to material.

The CCC said Mr Edman had shown how WA's electorate allowances system could be easily abused and more controls were needed.

It handed down a finding of serious misconduct against him.