Delta Goodrem was beaming at the launch of her third fragrance called Destiny.

The singer, 35, made an appearance at the Chemist Warehouse in Castle Towers Shopping Centre on Thursday.

She looked effortlessly elegant in a demure red and black midi dress with an intricate flora pattern with puffy shoulders and long sleeves.

Lady in red! Delta Goodrem (pictured) looked effortlessly elegant in a midi dress at the launch of her third fragrance at Chemist Warehouse in Castle Towers Shopping Centre on Thursday

Keeping in line with the red motif of her perfume bottle, she sported a bold red pout with a matching crimson varnish mani and pedi.

For makeup, her look was kept simple and elegant with lashings of mascara, smokey eye shadow and peachy cheeks that contrasted her blemish-free complexion.

She accessorised with two gold necklaces and a few delicate rings, and rounded out her ensemble with a pair of patent black heels.

Statuesque stunner: She looked effortlessly elegant in a demure red and black midi dress with an intricate flora pattern with puffy shoulders and long sleeves

Flawless: For makeup, her look was kept simple and elegant with lashings of mascara, smokey eye shadow and peachy cheeks that contrasted her blemish-free complexion

Red hot: Keeping in line with the red motif of her perfume bottle, she sported a bold red pout with a matching crimson varnish mani and pedi

Keeping it simple: She accessorised with two gold necklaces and a few delicate rings

The blonde beauty styled her shoulder-length blonde tresses in a nice and neat half-up ponytail.

Delta smiled for the cameras and her legions of fans that attended the event, and even posed with the store's mascot.

On stage, she spoke to fans about the fragrance and the hard work that went into creating its scent.

Classy: The Innocent Eyes singer rounded out her ensemble with a pair of patent black heels

Passionate: On stage, she spoke to fans about the fragrance and the hard work that went into creating its scent

The Born To Try hitmaker also happily greeted fans and signed perfume booklets.

Delta first announced her launch of her third fragrance Destiny back in October after working on the scent for the past year.

She released her first self-titled perfume in 2017, followed by another called Dream in 2018. Her fragrances are available exclusively at Chemist Warehouse.

Grateful: Delta smiled for the cameras and her legions of fans that attended the event, and even posed with the store's mascot

Meeting fans: The Born To Try hitmaker also happily greeted fans and signed perfume booklets

The fragrance represents Delta's intense passion and desire to fulfill her destiny.

In an Instagram post at the time, the Lost Without You singer wrote: 'When we released Dream I learned all about your dreams!

'This chapter is about your Destiny, I would love to hear about how you're fulfilling your destiny,' she added.