Rihanna announced she would release a new studio album in 2019 last December.

With just days left until the new year, that won't happen. But the past due date hasn't stopped the pop superstar from teasing her fans on Instagram who are eager for new material, sooner rather than later.

'Update: me listening to R9 by myself and refusing to release it, ' the singer wrote in the caption of a video she posted on Sunday.

Causing a stir! Rihanna, 31, teased fans on Sunday by making a reference to her much-anticipated ninth studio album with a dancing dog video

The K9 was an obvious reference to her much-anticipated ninth album.

In the quick clip, a little white dog appears to be dancing in a box to House Of Pain's funky 1989 party hit Jump Around.

The pooch can bee seen moving and bobbing his head perfectly to the beat.

Throwing fans a bone: 'Update: me listening to R9 by myself and refusing to release it, ' the singer wrote in the caption of a video that featured House Of Pain's Jump Around

Just last month, Rihanna got some of her fans in a frenzy when she may have hinted at the name of her upcoming record in an Instagram post.

Alongside a pouty red-lipped selfie, the singer wrote: 'to all my friends/family/coworkers who I have yet to get back to in the past months...please forgive me. this year has been quite an overwhelming one, and I'm working on that ish called Balance. brb.'

Some people looked into the post and deemed that the new record would be called Balance.

In an interview with T magazine, the Fenty Beauty founder revealed she didn't have title just yet, before joking that she was considering calling it K9.

Cheeky: The singer had gotten some fans in a frenzy when they thought she hinted that her new album would be called Balance in a post in November

Also in November, the Barbados-born star responded on Instagram to her stylist and Fenty's junior creative director Jahleel Weaver, who asked, 'Where's the album heaux?!!!'

'I don't need this kinda negativity in my life!"Rihanna joked.

'BLOCKT.'

Rihanna's last album -- Anti -- came out in 2016 and went double-platinum with the help of such hits as Work and Needed Me.