Stocks moved higher on Wall Street in afternoon trading Thursday, extending the market's gains for the week and pushing the major indexes toward more record highs.

The latest gains came as investors weighed a batch of encouraging earnings reports from several big companies. Rite Aid, Conagra Brands and Micron Technology rose after posting quarterly results that exceeded analysts' forecasts.

Stocks, bonds, gold and a gauge measuring fear among traders on Wall Street all made only slight moves in the first day of trading after President Donald Trump´s impeachment by the House of Representatives.

Trump had warned months ago that his impeachment would roil markets, but traders say it has virtually no impact. That´s mostly because they see it as extremely unlikely that Trump or his market-friendly policies will leave office before the end of his term.

Technology and communication services stocks accounted for much of the gains. Financial sector stocks fell as bond yields declined. Utilities and energy companies also fell.

KEEPING SCORE: The S&P 500 was up 0.3% as of 3:31 p.m. Eastern time. If the benchmark index closes higher, it will be its sixth gain in the last seven days.

FILE - In this Dec. 13, 2019, file photo trader Sal Suarino works on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. The U.S. stock market opens at 9:30 a.m. EST on Thursday, Dec. 19. (AP Photo/Richard Drew, File)

The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 105 points, or 0.4%, to 28,344, and the Nasdaq composite was up 0.5%. The Russell 2000 index of small-cap stocks was up 0.2%. More stocks rose on the New York Stock Exchange than fell.

European markets closed mostly higher.

IMPEACHMENT: Trump became just the third U.S. president to be impeached after the House voted Wednesday on charges of abuse of power and obstructing Congress in an investigation.

Trump, who has often reveled on Twitter when stock prices are rising, warned in October that "The Impeachment Hoax is hurting our Stock Market." While markets certainly do like Trump's low-tax and light-regulation approach to the economy, investors say his impeachment means very little to stock prices.

A gauge measuring how worried traders are about upcoming swings for the S&P 500 was up only 1%, for example.

That's because traders see little chance of a Republican-controlled Senate voting to remove Trump from office. Even if the unlikely were to occur and Trump left office, investors don't see Vice President Mike Pence raising taxes or tightening regulations.

STRONG FEED: Conagra Brands surged 16.9% for the biggest gain in the S&P 500 after it reported stronger profit and revenue for the latest quarter than Wall Street forecast due in part to sales of frozen and snack foods.

TECH SWING: Micron Technology rose 2.8% after it reported stronger profit for the latest quarter than analysts expected. Its CEO also said it expects this quarter to mark "the cyclical bottom for our financial performance."

YIELDS: Treasury yields slipped. The 10-year Treasury yield dipped to 1.91% from 1.92% late Wednesday . The two-year yield slid to 1.60% from 1.62%, and the 30-year yield fell to 2.35% from 2.35%.

NOT SO NEGATIVE: Sweden's central bank raised its benchmark interest rate to zero, ending a yearslong experiment to shock the economy into stronger growth through negative rates. Riksbank set a world first in the summer of 2009, when it cut another key interest rate, its deposit rate, below zero.

Other central banks have also tried to stimulate their economies and inflation higher through negative rates. Sweden's move could raise expectations that they may also end their negative-rate experiments, but the Bank of Japan on Thursday left its short-term policy rate unchanged at -0.1%.

ECONOMIC SIGNS: Reports on the U.S. economy were mixed. Fewer workers applied for jobless benefits last week than the prior week, but the number was higher than economists forecast.

A report by the Philadelphia Federal Reserve said that manufacturing activity was nearly flat in the region last month. The pace of sales of previously occupied homes also weakened last month, as more Americans get priced out of the rising housing market.

COMMODITIES: Benchmark U.S. crude rose 29 cents to $61.22 per barrel. Brent crude, the international standard, added 37 cents to $66.54.

Gold rose $5.70 to $1,484.40 per ounce.