He's the proud father of four adorable daughters.

And on Thursday, Brendon Fevola took to Instagram to share a cheeky snap of him enjoying some adorable father-daughter time with one-year-old Tobi - who had a beer in her hands.

In the picture, the retired AFL star, 38, sat next to the tot on their couch as they watched the golf.

'Best life ever!' On Thursday, Brendon Fevola took to Instagram to share a cheeky snap of some adorable father-daughter time with one-year-old Tobi - who had a beer in her hands

Tobi, who celebrated her first birthday back in November, showed off her cheeky grin as she clasped onto the glass bottle in its stubby holder as her radio host father starred blankly.

He wrote in the caption: 'How good's golf dad when your drinking beer with your sisters sandal around your wrist.'

'Best life ever @tobifevola #babygoals,' he added.

Whoops! While Brendan may have enjoyed quality time on the sofa with Tobi, he hasn't been so pleased with his older daughter Lulu, nine (left), who recently racked up a $4,000 bill from in-app purchases after using an iPad and iPhone unsupervised

Busted! The father-of-four girls confronted Lulu who admitted to making the purchases without her parents' knowledge

While he may have enjoyed relaxing quality time on the sofa with Tobi, he hasn't been so pleased with his older daughter Lulu, nine, who recently racked up a $4,000 bill from in-app purchases after using an iPad and iPhone unsupervised.

Last month, he spoke about the incident on his Fox FM breakfast show and revealed he was fortunately able to get most of the payments refunded.

He discovered that Lulu had been spending thousands on apps and games dating back to September.

Brendan's fiancée, Alex, had noticed some of the payments but didn't raise the alarm because she had assumed it was her partner's spending.

After this conversation, Brendan confronted his daughter and she admitted to making the purchases without her parents' knowledge.

While Brendan was relieved Apple had refunded some of the payments, he made it clear that Lulu would still face serious consequences.

Fifi, Fev & Byron airs weekdays from 6am on Fox FM in Melbourne