Nadia Bartel has revealed that she has not done her Christmas shopping yet - and time is running out.

The 34-year-old took to Instagram Stories on Monday and revealed her must-have beauty buys for the festive season.

However, at the start of the clip, she admitted she had been 'so slack' with shopping this year, even though it was almost Christmas Eve.

'I've been so slack!' Former AFL WAG Nadia Bartel (pictured) revealed on Monday that she hasn't done her Christmas shopping yet. Pictured with sons Aston, four, and Henley, one

The former AFL WAG said in the clip: 'I actually have to do all of it over the next few days!'

Nadia has been balancing a burgeoning business empire with motherhood, since splitting from AFL star husband Jimmy Bartel, 36, in August.

The former couple share two children: sons Aston, four, and Henley, one.

Nadia went on to reveal her favourite products, including her signature fragrance from Tom Ford.

Oh dear! In an Instagram clip, she admitted she had been 'so slack' with shopping this year, even though it was almost Christmas Eve

The former AFL WAG said in the clip: 'I actually have to do all of it over the next few days!'

'Jo Malone has such beautiful products,' the mother-of-two gushed, while opening up a $215 gift set containing a home fragrance, hand wash, and two candles.

Next was Tom Ford's Velvet Orchid fragrance, with oriental floral notes, retailing for $260.

'It's a beautiful brand, I love their makeup, it's so luxurious,' Nadia said. 'And this one is my favourite scent. Whenever I'm wearing it, I always get lots of compliments.'

Faves: Nadia went on to reveal her favourite products, including her signature fragrance from Tom Ford

Nadia then held up a bottle of Lancôme's Advanced Génifique Youth Activating Concentrate, selling for $300.

'This serum they have been working on for 20 years. It's such an incredible anti-ageing serum,' the Melbourne-based star informed her followers.

Nadia rounded off her must-have gifts with Elizabeth Arden's $99 'Holiday Blockbuster' bag.