Bradley Vogt has been sentenced to two years behind bars after flooding a Melbourne hotel with more than 400,000 litres of water in a drug-fuelled psychosis.

But Judge Martine Marich said in the County Court on Thursday that 'hope springs eternal' for his prospects of rehabilitation.

Vogt was found by firefighters with a mop in his hand after he opened all the fire hydrants between level one and 18 of the Experience Bella Hotel in May 2018, causing more than $1 million damage.

Melbourne man Bradley Vogt was sentenced to two years jail for flooding the Experience Bella Hotel with 400,000 litres of water (pictured) in May

Vogt was found by firefighters with a mop in his hand after he opened all the fire hydrants between level one and 18 of the Experience Bella Hotel (pictured)

His lawyer had said in Vogt's pre-sentence hearing that the 28-year-old was high on the drug ice at the time and 'labouring under a view that people were out to get him'.

Vogt was found in the fire escape of level 10 with a mop in his hand, attempting to soak up the ankle-deep water.

Vogt, who was a guest of the hotel, was told to head downstairs but firefighters later found him on level eight lying in the fire escape, mop still in hand, with water washing over him.

'It's fair to characterise the physical consequences of your actions as shocking and serious,' Judge Marich said on Thursday.

Vogt was taken to the manager's office but when police tried to talk to him, he lashed out violently.

He was sedated and taken to hospital, where he stayed for three days.

Police are filmed taking Vogt down (pictured) as he fights arrest in the flooded hotel before he was put on an stretcher and taken away

A bag containing 1.4 grams of methamphetamine and an ice pipe were found after Vogt left the manager's office, and another 7.2g was later found in his underwear.

Vogt pleaded guilty to intentionally causing damage, resisting an emergency worker and possessing a drug of dependence.

Judge Marich said she accepted that Vogt saw the event as a wake-up call.

Along with the sentence of two years and 18 days, Vogt must also serve a 24-month community corrections order.

'I have every faith, sir - I am hoping - that you will be able to stay away from your addiction and in turn, you will be able to stay away from trouble,' Judge Marich said.

'Hope springs eternal'.