A frightened but defiant young protester stood her ground while being threatened with arrest by police.

Issy, 13, and her father joined hundreds of protesters camped outside the home of Prime Minister Scott Morrison at Kirribilli House on Thursday, demanding him and the federal government take action on climate change.

The pair were among dozens ordered to move on by police deployed at the scene on Sydney's Lower North Shore.

Footage of the confrontation filmed by a university student protester shows visibly distressed but brave Issy close to tears and being comforted by her father as she was ordered by an officer to move on.

Young protester Issy is visibly distressed as she and her father are ordered to move on

'I'm asking you and your father to cease your actions which are preventing police from opening this closed road,' the constable explains.

'I now direct you to move off this temporarily closed roadway so that we can reopen the road.

'I must warn you that should you fail to comply with my direction, you may be arrested and forced may be used - do you understand?'

'Yes,' Issy replies as she and her father comply with the direction.

As they left the scene flanked by riot police, a defiant Issy proudly held her placard high in air, which read 'look at what you've left us, watch us fight it, watch us win', which prompted cheers from the crowd.

'You're a legend,' a man can be heard in the background.

Issy was proud to make her climate change views known, despite being threatened with arrest

NSW Police wouldn't specifically comment on the footage when contacted by Daily Mail Australia.

'Police issued move on directions to any person who was obstructing pedestrians or traffic following a planned protest at Kirribilli House, ' a spokeswoman said.

Footage of the confrontation has since gone viral on social media.

NSW Greens MP David Shoebridge is among hundreds who have since come out in support of Issy.

'Kids like this are leading the way and we need to have their back and make sure when they're calling for climate action their calls are heard in Parliament,' he tweeted on Thursday night.

A defiant Issy proudly held her placard high in the air as she and her father left the scene

Mr Shoebridge was also ordered to move on by police and was arrested after he refused to comply.

'Arrested and charged with failure to comply with a move on direction at the #ClimateEmergency rally outside Kirribilli House. Interesting fact is that I was trying to comply! Welcome to NSW policing coalition-style,' he captioned a photo on his court notice.

The prime minister wasn't at Kirribilli House and is currently holidaying in Hawaii with his wife and two young daughters.

The police spokeswoman told Daily Mail Australia 11 people were arrested at the protest.

Issy and her dad (right) were among dozens of protesters ordered to move on by police

Issy (pictured) was among hundreds of climate protesters outside Kirribilli House on Thursday

Five men aged 34, 48, 52, 55 and 57 – and five women - aged 38, 42, 43, 55, and 66 were all issued with court attendance notices for refusing/failing to comply with direction.

A 17-year-old girl will be dealt with under the Young Offenders Act.

Those arrested, including Mr Shoebridge will all appear in Manly Local Court on January 16.

'While police support the rights of individuals and groups to protest peacefully, but not when it impedes on their safety and the safety of others. Unlawful behaviour will not be tolerated,' the spokeswoman added.