Shocking footage has revealed the moment a gang of youths encircled a terrified woman, 'churning up grass and skidding' as she walked six dogs.

The incident occurred on Tuesday afternoon at a playing fields in Grimsby, North East Lincolnshire while the dog walker was out with the six pooches.

As she continued walking, the group started riding around her, skidding their bikes towards the small dogs who became very distressed.

She said she shouted for help while this was taking place and filmed the youths on her phone but claimed in response, they just laughed and continued their actions.

The hooded youths circled the woman while some on foot walked towards her on the playing fields

As the motorbikes zipped past the woman and the dogs, the animals were clearly frightened by the noise

The dog walker said: 'I don't normally take my dogs for a walk on Bradley Pitches but I know that it is a popular spot and took them there on Tuesday.

'Everything was going fine and I had let them off the lead for a little bit when this gang on mopeds and motorbikes rode onto the pitches and started doing skids, churning up the grass and riding very close to my dogs.

'I put my dogs on the lead again because they were getting very distressed but they just kept riding their bikes at them and laughing.'

She said she had taken her phone out to film the incident which she claimed 'may not have helped things'.

The woman filmed the incident and said the youths kept coming closer to her and the dogs

'While I was doing so I shouted for help over and over again but the boys just laughed at me. It was very distressing and intimidating for both me and my dogs.'

The dog walker added that youths on mopeds had been causing problems for people across the area and called for action to be taken against them.

She said that the youths 'think they are a law unto themselves and nothing can be done to stop the.

'They are causing problems in Scartho and Waltham as well as around Bradley and the Nunsthorpe. I would like to see some action taken to clamp down on these pests because they are becoming a real nuisance.'

Lincs Inspire, which runs Bradley Football Development Centre, said it was working closely with the police to stop anti-social behaviour on the pitches.

A spokesperson said: 'We are working closely with the police and North East Lincolnshire Council on these incidents of anti-social behaviour and all known cases are reported to them.

'We are doing our utmost to keep the pitches in use following the damage caused by mopeds and we urge the public to also inform the police if they witness any incidents or are the victims of any anti-social behaviour.'

Humberside Police said the force had launched Operation Yellowfin to combat moped crime in the area and it had led to a lot of successes.

Chief Inspector Paul French said:'Tthe programme is a high-profile initiative to tackle motorbike crime across the force area.

'I was really sorry to hear about what happened to this lady - I can imagine that it was a frightening experience and not one that anyone should have to put up with.

'In the last 12 months there has been an almost 30 per cent reduction in reports of anti-social behaviour and a 22 per cent decrease in reports of motorbikes being stolen in Grimsby.

'It's all thanks to the hard work done by all our officers and the intelligence they have picked up, as well as information passed on to us by the public.'

He added that this helped the force target the right areas at the right time, making the best use of their resources.

'We want to keep reducing this kind of crime so if there are issues happening in your area, please get in touch and let us know about it.

'Only by working together we can really make a difference and I want to thank everyone who has been in touch with information previously.

'One of the things that can make the biggest difference is knowing where these bikes are being stored, so if you see them being taken into properties or alleyways near you, let us know.

'Finally, our message to those who do get involved in riding motorbikes in this way is simple. We will do everything in our power to find you, seize your bike and put you before the courts.'

Anyone with information which they believe could assist police is asked to call the non-emergency 101 line or contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.