Angelina Jolie seems to have become a pro at the whole co-parenting situation with ex-husband Brad Pitt.

The actress reportedly arranged to stay in town for the holidays so that they can both spend Christmas with their kids.

She cut a chic look in black and white Sunday as she stepped out for some last minute shopping with daughters Zahara and Shiloh.

Last minute shopping: Angelina Jolie cut a chic look in black and white Sunday as she stepped out for some last minute shopping with daughters Zahara and Shiloh

The 44-year-old sported a thin black jacket over a white blouse, appropriate for the Los Angeles winter.

The ensemble was complemented with a black pencil skirt and a pair of blush stilettos.

She completed the look with a pair of gold-framed aviators, gold earrings and a matching watch.

Jolie walked through The Grove with Zahara, 14, and Shiloh, 13, who enjoyed some warm drinks after leaving Barnes & Noble.

Chic look: The 44-year-old sported a thin black jacket over a white blouse, appropriate for the Los Angeles winter

Stay gold: The ensemble was complemented with a black pencil skirt and a pair of blush stilettos. She completed the look with a pair of gold-framed aviators, gold earrings and a matching watch

Girls day: Jolie walked through The Grove with Zahara, 14, and Shiloh, 13, who enjoyed some warm drinks after leaving Barnes & Noble

Back in black: Zahara sported a strappy off-the-shoulder black sweater with a matching pair of skintight jeans

Sporty vibes: Shiloh donned a grey Champion hoodie, which she paired with some black gym shorts

Holidays with dad: According to Hollywood Life, Jolie has arranged for the kids to get in some quality time with Pitt, 56, over the holidays

Family time: A source said: 'They will share time with the kids equally over Christmas, that is how they did it last year and this year will be no different'

Zahara sported a strappy off-the-shoulder black sweater with a matching pair of skintight jeans.

Shiloh donned a grey Champion hoodie, which she paired with some black gym shorts.

According to Hollywood Life, Jolie has arranged for the kids to get in some quality time with Pitt, 56, over the holidays.

A source said: 'They will share time with the kids equally over Christmas, that is how they did it last year and this year will be no different.'

Since getting divorced in 2016, the couple shares daughters Zahara and Shiloh, as well as sons Maddox, 18, Pax, 16, Knox, 11, and daughter Vivienne, 11.