Jonathan Cheban had a four-legged friend with him on Tuesday evening when hitting the town in Los Angeles.

The reality TV wonder - he has appeared on Spin Crowd, Keeping Up With The Kardashians and Celebrity Big Brother, to name a few - posed with the teacup canine when he was leaving Craig's.

The social media sensation, who has legally changed his name to FoodGod, has been in town to film new episodes of KUWTK with his friend of 11 years, Kim Kardashian.

Woof: Jonathan Cheban had a four-legged friend with him on Tuesday evening when hitting the town in Los Angeles

So small: The reality TV wonder - he has appeared on Spin Crowd, Keeping Up With The Kardashians and Celebrity Big Brother, to name a few - posed with the teacup canine when he was leaving Craig's

Jonathan had on an unusual hoodie with a large pocket in front and a logo that saw an alien on what looked like a Versace logo.

The article of clothing was black with sparkly accents on the hoodie, the sleeves and the pocket in front.

He added black slacks that were narrow on the calves. And the longtime pal of Bethenny Frankel also had on a black cap with a white smiley face on front.

LA visit: The social media sensation, who has legally changed his name to FoodGod, has been in town to film new episodes of KUWTK with his friend of 11 years, Kim Kardashian

Alien look: Jonathan had on an unusual hoodie with a large pocket in front and a logo that saw an alien on what looked like a Versace logo

The star wore a watch with a blue strap but left his FoodGod necklace at home.

Sparkly grey high top sneakers with white laces and a white toe looked fun for the holidays.

The dog did not appear to be Jonathan's but rather a friend's pet. Cheban was also seen chatting up a Craig's staffer who took photos with the TV staple.

Standing out: The article of clothing was black with sparkly accents on the hoodie, the sleeves and the pocket in front

On trend: He added black slacks that were narrow on the calves and had a zipper on the sides. And the longtime pal of Bethenny Frankel also had on a black cap with a white smiley face on front

This comes after the New Jersey native was seen shopping in Beverly Hills on Monday.

The star did not hold back as he splurged at one of the priciest shops in town, Louis Vuitton.

Jonathan was seen carrying two large shopping bags from Louis Vuitton. The bags had pink and green print.

Splurge! Cheban on Monday did some Christmas shopping alone in Beverly Hills

Bestie out for lunch: Here the fashion icon was seen with Kim Kardashian in Miami in early December; later that day they hit the Dior show

The star was on Beverly Hills' most famous street Rodeo Drive where Hermes, Gucci, Dior and Cartier also have shops.

The Miami resident could not be missed as he wore a bright neon green/yellow top with white wording on front that read OTI.

He added black slacks and white sneakers.

A large black watch was on his wrist instead of his usual diamond-encrusted Rolex.

He added black sunglasses as he seemed to be freshly tanned.

It has been a busy week for the Celebrity Big Brother star. Over the weekend he stopped by West Hollywood hot spot Craig's where Kris Jenner as well as Kim and Khloe Kardashian often dine. He had on a colorful jacket with red, green and blue. And the next day the Spin Crowd star wore a black sweatshirt with drawings on front in neon colors.

Colorful: Over the weekend he stopped by West Hollywood hot spot Craig's where Kris Jenner as well as Kim and Khloe Kardashian often dine. He had on a colorful jacket with red, green and blue. And the next day the Spin Crowd star wore a black sweatshirt with drawings on front in neon colors

Dapper: He also slipped into a black velvet suit with a matching bow tie, white shirt, and steel watch to hit Diddy's 50th birthday party in LA. Cheban posed with Kris Jenner and Corey Gamble, who had on a gold suit

NYC night: Jonathan is often seen in New York City, and earlier this month he was there attending DailyMail.com's Christmas party

He also slipped into a black velvet suit with a matching bow tie, white shirt, and steel watch to hit Diddy's 50th birthday party in LA.

Cheban posed with Kris Jenner and Corey Gamble, who had on a gold suit.

Jonathan is often seen in New York City, and earlier this month he was there attending DailyMail.com's Christmas party.

He was photographed with Margaret Josephs, Dolores Catania, Jackie Goldschneider, Melissa Gorga, Dr. Mehmet Oz, Nancy Grace, Kelly Dodd and LeeAnne Locken.

The event was held at Cathedrale at The Moxy Hotel.

The FoodGod star - who is now working with Jersey Mike Subs - was last seen with Kim in Miami for the Dior show. Kourtney and Bella Hadid were also present.