She's been using her Bachelor fame as a platform to speak about sexism and social change.

And on Thursday night, Abbie Chatfield took to Instagram Stories to let her followers know she's had enough of people telling her she is 'uneducated'.

When the 24-year-old shared posts about her political views relating to President Trump's impeachment, she was immediately bombarded with messages telling her to stay in her lane.

Too pretty for politics? On Thursday night, Abbie Chatfield (pictured) took to Instagram to let her followers know she's had enough of people telling her she is 'uneducated'

'I've had a lot of people direct message me and say, "stick to beauty reviews", which I don't even do,' Abbie started.

'Or "you're too pretty to understand what's going on" or "you're obviously uneducated, you have no idea what you're talking about",' she said.

The reality star explained the comments were primarily from 'white men' aged between 17 and 21-years-old.

Politically active: Abbie told her 119,000 followers that she would never change the way she posted because she had a larger following

'I just want to make it very clear that while some of you may have views that differ to mine, I have my views that are very set in stone. I'm happy to have a conversation based in fact. But I won't change my views,' she said.

Abbie went on to say her views were constructed from 'education' and her university degree and the politically-based media she digested.

'For you to say that I'm uneducated and I should stick to beauty things and to just being pretty, it is completely sexist and ridiculous and offensive,' she said.

Firm: Abbie went on to say her views were constructed from 'education' and her university degree and the politically-based media she digested

Abbie explained that she was consistently 'pigeonholed into this blonde reality star'.

'Women can be multi-faceted. We can like politics and we can like reality TV. We can like science and we can like exercise. We can like more than one thing. You can be smart in more than one way,' she said.

She went on to argue that if a man from a reality show shared their opinions, they would be praised.