A creative mother has wowed other homeowners with a DIY Christmas tree that she put together herself with just a few materials from Bunnings Warehouse.

DIY expert and mum Ange Sidley, from Sydney, said she 'adores' everything about Christmas - and so this year wanted to add a degree of festivity to her children's playroom.

But rather than dash out to find a traditional pine tree, Ange took matters into her own hands and made her a tree which is not only beautiful but also takes up little space because it is suspended on the wall.

A creative mother has wowed other homeowners with a DIY Christmas tree that she put together herself with just a few materials from Bunnings Warehouse (pictured)

DIY expert and mum Ange Sidley (pictured), from Sydney, said she 'adores' everything about Christmas and wanted to make something herself

'This is an awesome little DIY project that takes no time at all,' she posted on Instagram.

To put the tree together, Ange first of all got her hands on ten planks of wood from Bunnings.

She then cut them all to size and left a 12 centimetre difference in each plank's length.

'This is an awesome little DIY project that takes no time at all,' Ange (pictured with her living room tree) said

Next, Ange used painters tape, which she attached to the wall, before she sanded the wood lightly.

She then used cheap velcro picture hanging strips to attach the planks to the playroom wall.

Finally, Ange decorated the 'tree', adding fairy lights and photos of her children with Santa, as well as a few baubles and hanging decorations.

She said it's useful because the whole thing is 'completely removable', meaning there won't be any nasty marks left on your wall.

To put the tree together, Ange first of all got her hands on ten planks of wood from Bunnings, which she then cut to size (pictured)

After she shared the tree on Instagram, the mum was met with a flood of praise from commenters - who said they were hugely impressed with the simple decoration

After she shared the tree on Instagram, the mum was met with a flood of praise from commenters - who said they were hugely impressed with the simple decoration.

'Oh this is so creative. Absolutely love it,' wrote one.

Another said how useful it would be, seeing as young children can't reach up and pull baubles from the tree.