Kansas City police officers have been accused of breaking into a man's home in the middle of the night and beating him before having him charged with battery of a law enforcement officer.

Joseph Harter, 43, claims in the lawsuit filed last week in federal court that he was temporarily blinded by blood in his eyes and went to a hospital after the October 2018 beating, The Kansas City Star reported.

The police department and the Unified Government of Wyandotte County declined to comment Wednesday on the pending litigation, which alleges that Harter was the victim of illegal entry, battery, false imprisonment and excessive force.

Kansas City police officers have been accused of breaking into a man's home in the middle of the night and beating him before having him charged with battery of a law enforcement officer

The municipal battery charge that was filed against him was dropped less than two months later 'due to prosecutor discretion and pending investigation,' according to court records.

The lawsuit claims Harter awoke at about 3 am and discovered a person was inside his bedroom.

Harter then found out later that individual was Faisal Hassan, a Kansas City, Kansas, police officer, The Kansas City Star reported.

They subsequently arrested Harter and brought him to the University of Kansas Medical Center. They then transferred him to Wyandotte County Adult Detention Center.

He had been charged with battery of a law enforcement officer however the chargers were thrown out 'due to prosecutor discretion and pending investigation,' according to the Kansas City Star.

Harte's attorney, William Dunn, claimed that it is not known why cops arrived at his home, and that he did not know them before the incident in October 2018.

Former police chief Terry Zeigler, (pictured), is listed in the lawsuit as a defendant amid claims that he failed to control officers in Kansas City Police force

'I think what you're wanting to understand, and certainly I want to understand too but I don't, is what are the police doing in there,' he said to a reporter. 'That will hopefully come out as the case moves forward.'

Dunn said that by filing suit Harter is hoping for compensation for his $13,000 in medical bills and lasting trauma.

Harter and Dunn also hope to prevent such an event from happening to another resident of Kansas City, Kansas, he said.

'Maybe, depending on how this all shakes out, maybe the unified government needs to take a look at their policies and procedures and who they're hiring to carry them out,' he said.

Wyandotte County prosecutor's office spokesman Jonathan Carter said in an email that no officers were charged in the case.

Hassan, the Unified Government of Wyandotte County and other officers who have not been identified have been listed as defendants in the lawsuit.

Former police chief Terry Zeigler is also listed in the lawsuit as a defendant, according to The Kansas City Star. It states that he did not adequately control the officers in order to protect Harter and other Kansas city citizens.