Dressed in festive pyjamas, Tamara Ecclestone shrugged off the £50 million raid on her London mansion as she decorated the Christmas tree in her Swiss chalet with her five-year-old daughter.

The Formula One heiress has put on a brave face since thieves broke into the home she shares with husband Jay Rutland and stole her precious jewels.

Today she took to the slopes in the five-star Swiss Alps ski resort of Gstaad before getting cosy at the luxury ski chalet where she will spend the festive period season with her daughter, Fifi.

Tamara Ecclestone hit the ski slopes today in the luxury Swiss resort of Gstaad where the family are staying in her tycoon father Bernie's £23million chalet

Tamara could be seen dressed in comfy pyjamas and decorating the Christmas tree with her daughter Sophia - nicknamed 'Fifi', five, playing an active role

Meanwhile excited Fifi has been decorating the Christmas tree with baubles and hearts expressing love for members of the millionaire family – including their new boxer puppy dog Moose.

The family jetted into the exclusive Swiss resort this week after spending the weekend in Lapland.

They are staying at her father's £23 million luxury ski house, named Chalet Bernie.

Both Tamara and her husband seem determined to put the drama of Friday's raid behind them with Jay echoing his millionaire wife's philosophy to move on.

The Formula One heiress has vowed that 'nothing will dampen' their 'festive spirit, despite the robbery at their London home.

Formula One heiress Tamara posted this clip on Instagram of her taking to the slopes in the Alps as she seemed determined to put the drama of Friday night's £50m raid behind her

Fifi giggled for the camera as she relaxed on their family Christmas holiday in Switzerland. The family's £75million, 57-room mansion in Kensington was raided after they jetted off to Lapland

Mr Rutland, 38, posted an image on Instagram with a caption saying that it 'more important that any possessions' that his family were safe following the raid in which diamond earrings and jewel-encrusted watches were stolen.

And he wrote: 'Never ruin a good day by thinking about a bad yesterday. Let it go.'

In a touching message to her sister Petra, Tamara wished her the 'happiest of days' on her birthday.

The family arrived in Gstaad on Tuesday - and immediately embarked on a spot of retail therapy to keep their spirits up - by kitting their daughter out with new skis, poles and boots.

Strolling through the centre of Gstaad, the family stopped to buy a toy from a street-side vending machine and chatted with other holiday makers as they walked with their dog Teddy along the street.

Ms Ecclestone, 35, her husband Jay Rutland, 38, and their young daughter Sophia lifted their spirits with a spot of retail therapy by shopping in the Swiss resort of Gstaad

Tamara spent around £625 at the Brand Fashion Sports ski shop kitting out Sophia for the slopes where she paid £310 for skis, £155 for ski boots, £40 for ski poles and £120 for a helmet

The mother-of-one who is the youngest daughter of Bernie Ecclestone, picked out the latest equipment for Sophia, five, who is understood to enjoy winter sports

The Formula One heiress and Mr Rutland leave the upmarket shop with the couple's dog, Teddy

Mr Rutland is pictured looking inside a ski equipment store during the couple's shopping trip

The Bernese Oberland mountain range, which includes Gstaad, where the couple were seen shopping is unseasonably warm with day-time temperatures reaching 10 degrees centigrade

Three raiders reportedly broke into Ms Ecclestone's 57-room mansion through the garden before heading straight to the safes and spending around 50 minutes in the house, which is located on one of London's most exclusive roads.

Tamara, the daughter of billionaire former F1 boss Bernie Ecclestone, has two engagement rings, worth £250,000 each, but it is not known if these were taken.

She also has several sets of diamond stud earrings valued at around £50,000 per pair and a large watch collection including Rolex, Hublot and Cartier pieces worth up to £100,000 a pop.

The gang were able to smash open several bedroom safes and fled via an open window despite a guard sitting in a CCTV room and the mansion being run by up to 50 staff.

Ms Ecclestone was said to be in 'complete devastation and shock' after the precious gems were stolen from her London home.

Ms Ecclestone was seen arriving in Gstaad, Switzerland, by helicopter on Tuesday afternoon

The F1 heiress's husband Mr Rutland was seen clutching a man bag on the tarmac after the family were flown by private jet to Bern and then onto at Gstaad Airport by helicopter

Huddling against the wind, Tamara lovingly crouches over her daughter Sophia as they make their way from the helicopter that flew them to Gstaad, an luxury resort in the Swiss Alps

Neighbours were also shocked at Friday night's break-in, which took place on one of the most prestigious streets in London with 24-hour security patrols and checkpoints.

Guards are also believed to be present at all times inside the property, where Ms Ecclestone lives with Mr Rutland.

Bernie believes the theft from his eldest daughter's high security Billionaires' Row mansion was an inside job.

The former F1 supremo fears she has been betrayed after the three burglars were able to spend so long at the west London home.

One security guard who was supposed to be guarding the property went to fill his car with petrol at 10pm on the night of the heist.

The heist at the Ecclestones' house (above) took place on one of London 's most exclusive streets, nicknamed Billionaire's Row, in Kensington, which has 24-hour security and checkpoints because of the rich residents and embassies on the road

A second security guard was meant to be monitoring CCTV cameras in the control room.

The family had just boarded a private jet for Lapland suggesting the timing of the raid hours later could be no coincidence.

Mr Ecclestone told MailOnline: 'I don't have all the facts but given all the security at the house, I'm assuming it was an inside job.

'It's an awful thing to happen just after she had left the house to go to Lapland. Although maybe it's better that she wasn't in at the time'.

He added: 'I've tried to call her this morning to see what the latest is but I couldn't get through.'

Scotland Yard has not yet made any arrests but one line of inquiry for detectives will be if the thieves were helped by someone on the inside who knew the family were away and where their safes were hidden.

Police are said to have an 'open mind' about whether this Instagram photo of Ms Ecclestone's daughter Sophia and their dog Teddy boarding a private in the hours before the £50m burglary may have tipped off the raiders to an empty mansion

Ms Ecclestone and Sophia were all smiles in Instagram videos made by Jay of them meeting Santa and his reindeer