Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are often snapped by bystanders when they make public appearances - but unlike other royal Instagram accounts, you won't be able to find the photo if it's shared online.

This is because the Duke and Duchess of Sussex have disabled the tagging feature on their Sussex Royal page.

When the royal couple, who are currently on a six-week break from royal duties, first set up their Instagram account, they did not enable the function which allows fans to see photographs they have been tagged in.

It means that should, for instance, the couple's official Christmas card leak on social media, then it will be much more difficult for fans to find it because it won't show up on the Sussex Royal account.

However, you can view tagged photos of Prince William and Kate Middleton, on their Kensington Royal Instagram page. The latest is an image of pop star Rita Ora, who thanked the charity Centrepoint for having her at a recent event and said it was an 'honour' to meet Prince William and 'talk all things mental health'.

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are often snapped by bystanders when they make public appearances - but unlike other royal Instagram accounts, you won't be able to tag them in a photo if you share it online

Not having the facility on their page could be an attempt to prevent leaks like that of Cambridges' Christmas card yesterday.

Prince William, Kate Middleton and their family have still not officially shared the family portrait, but a recipient of the card shared the image of them posing beside a vintage motorcycle on Twitter, and it's since been widely circulated.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex are yet to unveil their Christmas photograph, so restricting tagged images of them from appearing on Instagram could be an attempt to stop people from seeing it before they publicly release it.

It may also be an attempt to maintain their all-important privacy - especially for periods like this, when they're on a six-week break from royal duties.

It is believed they have used the break to travel to America to spend time with Meghan's mother Doria Ragland.

Femail has reached out to the Duke and Duchess' representatives for comment.

The royal couple, who are currently on a six-week break from royal duties, have never enabled the facility which allows fans to tag them in photographs they take of them. No photos appear in the 'Tagged' section of their page (pictured)

Not having the facility on their page could be an attempt to prevent leaks like that of Cambridges' Christmas card yesterday. Pictured: Harry and Meghan introducing baby Archie to the world in May

Prince William, Kate Middleton and their family have still not officially shared the family portrait, but the image of them posing beside a vintage motorcycle (pictured) has been widely shared on social media after a recipient posted a picture of the card on Twitter

A royal commentator claimed the family spent Thanksgiving 'celebrating with close family' on a 'long-time trip to the US'.

How tagging on Instagram works You can tag people in a photo or video that you share on Instagram. To tag people as you're posting a photo or video: 1. After you've selected a photo or video and added effects and filters, tap Tag People from the Share screen. 2. Tap on someone in the photo. 3. Start entering their name or username and select them from the dropdown menu. 4. Tap Done (iPhone) or the tick on Android. When people tag you in photos, they appear in the Tagged section of your page.

If the Sussexes joined Doria at her LA home for the holidays, it would mark the first time Meghan has taken her son Archie back to her hometown.

Despite being on a 'break' from their work, earlier this month DailyMailTV revealed Meghan is using her break from royal duties to work with a boss at her former Hollywood publicist on a strategy to raise 'tens of millions of dollars' for the foundation she and her husband are setting up.

The Duchess of Sussex is said to be in 'full work mode' behind the scenes during her and Harry's extended vacation.

She has reportedly been working with PR advisor, fellow American and close friend Keleigh Thomas Morgan on building a U.S. strategy for the charity venture, which has the full name Sussex Royal, The Foundation of the D&D of Sussex.

Sources in Los Angeles say that Thomas Morgan has been secretly assisting Meghan on the charity launch and fundraising drive and helping her plot a strategy for the next 18 months.

Despite being on a 'break' from their work, earlier this month DailyMailTV revealed Meghan, pictured with Archie in South Africa earlier this year, is using her break from royal duties to work with a boss at her former Hollywood publicist on a strategy to raise 'tens of millions of dollars' for the foundation she and her husband are setting up

The Duchess of Sussex, pictured with Harry in October 2018, is said to be in 'full work mode' behind the scenes during her and Harry's extended vacation

There remains a question mark hanging over where the couple and Archie will spend Christmas, after it was confirmed they will not be at Sandringham with the Queen.

Despite Her Majesty giving her grandson her full support, royals sources said the monarch was initially in the dark about Harry's festive plans until he called her at Buckingham Palace last month to decline her open invite.

The announcement came after Harry, 35, and Meghan, 38, opened up about struggling with royal life and public scrutiny in the explosive ITV programme Meghan and Harry: An African Journey, in which the Duchess claimed that not many people have asked if she's 'okay'.

Harry also claimed he and his brother Prince William are on 'different paths' and confessed to presenter Tom Bradby - a close friend of his - that he still struggles to deal with the 'incredibly raw' death of his mother, Princess Diana.