Advertisement

When it comes to Christmas decorations, they say that less is more — an axiom that a Canadian microscope specialist has taken to the ultimate extreme.

Using an electron microscope, the expert carved the world's smallest 'gingerbread' house, replete with a sharply defined brick chimney, windows and door.

A tiny welcome mat with the Canadian flag on it lies outside the front door, while a Christmas tree, puddings and a wreath decorate the walls.

The house itself is carved atop the head of a jolly snowman — itself barely taller in stature than the thickness of a human hair.

The gingerbread house is thought to be the smallest to have ever been created — it is half the size of the previous record holder, which was carved in France in 2018.

Using an electron microscope, a Canadian microscope specialist carved the world's smallest 'gingerbread' house, replete with a sharply defined brick chimney, windows and door.

Engineer Travis Casagrande of the Canadian Centre for Electron Microscopy at McMaster University etched the stacked decorations out of silicon.

He did this under intense magnification using a beam of charged gallium ions, which acted like a sandblaster, letting him shape and draw the tiny features.

The electron microscope used to see the sculpture doesn't use light and optical lenses like a traditional desktop microscope — instead, it uses a beam of electrons and electromagnetic lenses.

As electrons have a wavelength some 100,000 times smaller than that of visible light, this allows scientists to examine materials at considerably higher levels of magnification.

Mr Casagrande and his colleagues normally utilise the focused ion beam microscope used to carve the house to prepare tiny samples of materials for analysis under the centre's more powerful transmission electron microscope.

These samples need to be sliced thin enough that a beam of electrons can be passed through them in order to produce an image — a process which can capture features down to the level of individual atoms.

Scientists commonly use the same silicon material the house and the snowman is carved from in lithium-ion battery research.

A tiny welcome mat with the Canadian flag on it lies outside the front door, while a Christmas tree, puddings and a wreath decorate the walls. The house itself is carved atop the head of a jolly snowman — itself barely taller in stature than the thickness of a human hair

Engineer Travis Casagrande of the Canadian Centre for Electron Microscopy at McMaster University etched the stacked decorations out of silicon. The snowman on top of which the house sits, centre, is barely taller than a human hair, seen right, is wide

Mr Casagrande hopes his festive creation will both attract the interest of the public, but also highlight to other scientists the kind of work being undertaken at the microscopy centre, which sports 10 electron microscopes available for research

This is not his first tiny piece of art — in 2017, the engineer carved a tiny Canadian flag within a hole that was barely visible to the naked eye in the back of a penny.

'I think projects like this create science curiosity,' Mr Casagrande says.

'For both children and adults, it’s important to be curious about science.'

'Looking into how this was made leads to more interest in science, and that builds more science literacy, which allows everyone to make better decisions.'