She's been surprising fans on the hit ITV chatshow in order for them to win festive treats.

And Alison Hammond was forced to calm down a screaming contestant on Thursday's episode of This Morning after she thought she could win £200,000 instead of £2,000 in a special competition.

The presenter, 44, who was dressed in an elf costume, surprised Angela on her doorstep in a bid to win a 'little bit of money' and 'festive treats' ahead of Christmas.

Scroll down for video

Excitement: Alison Hammond was forced to calm down a screaming contestant on Thursday's episode of This Morning after she thought she could win £200,000 instead of £2,000

On the way to her house, Alison addressed Angela live on air as she told her to come to her front door as she was on her way.

The presenter then promoted a separate competition for This Morning fans where they can win £200,000, explaining Angela's confusion over the prize money.

Alison then rung the contestant's doorbell, to which screaming could be heard, with the former Big Brother star joking: 'Oh, I can hear the screams!'

A gobsmacked Angela then opened the front door to which she started shaking and exclaimed: 'Oh my God, oh my God!'

Hugs: The presenter, 44, who was dressed in an elf costume, surprised Angela on her doorstep in a bid to win a 'little bit of money' and 'festive treats' ahead of Christmas

Hysterical: Alison then rung the contestant's doorbell, to which screaming could be heard, with the former Big Brother star joking: 'Oh, I can hear the screams!'

Angela continued to scream as she ran back into her house and back to the front door again, adding: 'I'm so sorry, so sorry!'

An amused Alison then hugged the excited contestant, who had started crying, and said: 'Merry Christmas, babes! Angela, don't get emotional, listen, I'm going to give you a chance to win some festive treats.

'I've made the questions dead easy and I’ve got a little bit of cash for you. It’s not loads but a little bit of cash.'

Starstruck: A gobsmacked Angela then opened the front door to which she started shaking and exclaimed: 'Oh my God, oh my God!'

However Angela was confused about the cash prize sum as she thought she was winning £200,000 with Alison having to explain that was for a separate This Morning competition instead.

Alison said: 'Listen, while the lovely Angela settles down, I'm going to give you an opportunity to win £200,000.'

To which Angela thought was her prize sum as she excitedly screamed: 'What? What!'

Oops! However Angela was confused about the cash prize sum as she thought she was winning £200,000 with Alison having to explain that was for a separate This Morning competition instead

Yet Alison was quick to clarify, as she replied: 'Nope, not for you babes... for them!'

Yet despite the confusion, Angela won £2,000, a mattress, spa voucher and other prizes available during the surprise visit.

This Morning hosts Ruth Langsford and Eamonn Holmes were left in hysterics over the scenes, with the Irish presenter joking: 'I was worried Angela was going to have a wee turn there she was so excited.'

With Ruth adding: 'I love it. That’s a nice time for Angela this morning.'

This Morning continues on weekdays at 10:30am on ITV.