Kaley Cuoco has revealed her new TV series The Flight Attendant is her most challenging project to to date.

The 34-year-old actress took to her Instagram account on Wednesday to share her debut vlog, revealing she was exhausted by her gruelling schedule and early morning wake up calls.

The star was later spotted on the set of the dark comedy, wrapped up warm in a padded jacket and wearing her hair in rollers.

Giving it her all: Kaley Cuoco revealed her new TV series The Flight Attendant is her most challenging project to to date as she was spotted on the set of the dark comedy in New York City on Wednesday

Kaley appeared in high spirits in spite of her tough filming commitments for the upcoming HBO Max series.

She proudly unveiled her very first video chat, titled Wake Me Up Before You Cuoco, which she joked was marred with technical problems because she doesn't understand the 'Instagram TV'.

Speaking into the camera, Kaley said: 'This is my first episode, I don't know if I'm doing it right. I'm going to have to ask my husband Karl how to upload it...

First vlog: She proudly unveiled her very first video chat, titled Wake Me Up Before You Cuoco, which she joked was marred with technical problems because she doesn't understand the 'Instagram TV'

Keeping cosy: The star was later spotted on the set of the new TV show, wrapped up warm in a padded jacket and wearing her hair in rollers

'It physically pains me - coffee is the only way I can make these early calls. This is my nightgown!.

'I've got a few more days left on Flight Attendant before the holidays. I've never worked like this and I love it, I actually love it.

'I'm up first thing in the morning, I'm the last person on set, well, the crew is - amazing crew - but usually the last actor and I honestly absolutely love it.'

She enthused: 'I've got a few more days left on Flight Attendant before the holidays. I've never worked like this and I love it, I actually love it'

However, Kaley confessed her schedule was playing havoc with her workout regime and she was struggling to fit in a workout.

'But trying to wake up even before these calls to go to yoga or get a workout in has been challenging', she said.

'I'm actually going to go to yoga this morning as I have a 9am pick up.'

No time: Kaley confessed her schedule was playing havoc with her workout regime and she was struggling to fit in a workout

The Flight Attendant, an eight-part series, marks Cuoco's first major project since The Big Bang Theory wrapped.

She had played Penny on the top-rated CBS hit during its 12-year run, which earned her second place on Forbes' highest paid actresses on television list after Modern Family's Sofia Vergara.

In her new show, Cuoco portrays flight attendant Cassandra Bowden, who wakes up following a night of heavy drinking with a memory blank and a dead body in her hotel room bed.

Girls star Zosia Mamet plays Bowden's confidante Annie, a New York City attorney who's ensnared in the bone-chilling situation.

Rosie Perez, Merle Dandridge, T.R. Knight, Michiel Huisman, Sonoya Mizuno and Colin Woodell also are among the cast of the forthcoming series.