A seven-year-old boy staying at a Texas domestic violence shelter has asked Santa for a 'very very very good dad' for Christmas in a heartbreaking letter found in his backpack by his mom.

The handwritten note, posted online by Safe Haven Tarrant County on Wednesday, describes how the youngster's father was 'mad' before the family were forced to flee to the safety of the center.

In it the boy, called Blake, tells Santa: 'We had to do all the chores. Dad got everything he wanted. Mom said it was time to leave and she would take us to a safer place where we don’t have to be scared.'

He adds: 'I’m still nervous. I don’t want to talk to the other kids.'

Blake then asks for 'some chapter books, a dictionary, and a compass and a watch', asking: 'Are you going to come this Christmas? We don't have any of our stuff here.

'I also want a a very very very good dad. Can you do that too?'

The heartbreaking handwritten note was posted online by Safe Haven Tarrant County

The emergency shelter, pictured, provides help to those escaping domestic violence

Sharing the letter online the emergency shelter, which provides help to those escaping domestic violence, wrote: 'Blake is a 7-year-old boy in one of our shelters, and his mom found this letter to Santa in his backpack a few weeks ago.

'Thanks to your donations through Santa's Sack, Blake is getting exactly what he asked for from Santa.

'But with 117 women and children needing shelter this holiday season, we need your help to make sure they have a safe place to stay throughout December.'

The post has been shared hundreds of times with people asking how they can help the family.

In a follow up message the shelter reassured well wishers both Blake and his loved ones were safe, writing: 'We so appreciate everyone's concern over the safety of Blake and his family. Victim safety has been our priority for over 40 years, and we would never compromise that through a social media post or otherwise.

'Blake and his mom are safe! Thank you for your concern for his family.'

The post has been shared hundreds of times with people asking how they can help the family

Wellwishers replied to the post offering their help and sharing their own stories.

One wrote: 'Heartbreaking letter.Thanks for sharing'

Another added: 'Just as I was having a really bad day at work and feeling sorry for myself I see this post. Puts things in perspective. I'm actually crying for this child but I am glad he is in a safe place for Christmas.'

To donate to Safe Haven please visit here.