She was the picture of glamour as she attended the star-studded Fashion Awards in the English capital earlier in the month.

And Irina Shayk proved she's just as stunning when opting for a low-key appearance as she returned to London when she landed at Heathrow Airport on Thursday.

The catwalk queen, 33, exuded off-duty chic as she wrapped up in a leather trench coat, teamed with designer platform boots worth £700 by Bottega Veneta.

Casual chic: Irina Shayk proved she's just as stunning when opting for a low-key appearance as she returned to London when she landed at Heathrow Airport on Thursday

Opting for comfort, the supermodel kept cosy in a pair of cream baggy joggers for her relaxed outing.

The Vogue coverstar showcased her signature edgy style in the accessory department as she rounded off her outfit with skinny sunglasses.

With her tresses worn in loose waves, Irina displayed her naturally radiant complexion as she went make-up free.

Looking good: The catwalk queen, 33, exuded off-duty chic as she wrapped up in a leather trench coat, teamed with designer platform boots worth £700 by Bottega Veneta

Less is more: Opting for comfort, the supermodel kept cosy in a pair of cream baggy joggers for her relaxed outing

All in the details: The Vogue coverstar showcased her signature edgy style in the accessory department as she rounded off her outfit with skinny sunglasses

Meanwhile, the Russian beauty and her former partner, actor Bradley Cooper, 44, share 50/50 custody of their two-year-old daughter Lea - following their split over the summer.

The very private couple called time on their relationship in June after four years together.

A source close to the couple told People at the time: 'Bradley was emotionally absent during the long time filming A Star Is Born. They tried to save the relationship but it had changed.'

Radiant: With her tresses worn in loose waves, Irina displayed her naturally clear complexion as she went make-up free

In good company: She appeared in great spirits as her luggage was strolled across the grounds by a female worker

Wow-factor: The brunette beauty was the picture of glamour as she attended the star-studded Fashion Awards in the English capital earlier in the month

There were rumours at the time he and co-star Lady Gaga had a romance blossoming in real life, following their intimate performance of Grammy and Oscar winning song, Shallow, at the Academy Awards - something they have both denied.

Rumours resurfaced once again in recent times when Life & Style reported that the singer thought Bradley was 'the one.'

The family has settled into a new normal since the couple split earlier this year, with both parents now residing in NYC, after living together in LA.

Last month Irina seemed to be in great spirits as she danced in the streets on her way to pick her daughter up while Bradley enjoyed a gym session.