Government Health Secretary Matt Hancock said it is 'essential' that NHS staff get the flu jab after statistics today revealed cases are eight times higher than last year.

An early start to the season has left 2,092 people in England needing treatment for the contagious virus so far in 2019.

By comparison, there were just 256 hospital admissions with flu at the same point 12 months ago.

NHS England staff have been accused of fuelling the crisis after Government figures released today showed four out of 10 had still not been vaccinated.

Mr Hancock said it was 'wrong' for any of the health service's frontline workforce not to have had the jab.

'This is an essential measure to ensure that both patients and staff are protected throughout the winter period,' he said in a statement.

'It is wrong for any front line NHS staff not to be vaccinated against flu without a good medical reason. I am determined to reach universal uptake for NHS workers next year.'

The virus has killed 23 people so far this winter, more than double the amount last year when it struck down nine. Eight people were succumbed to the virus last week alone.

The number of patients hospitalised with the flu this winter is eight times higher than it was last year, figures show (stock)

An early start to the flu season has left 2,092 needing treatment for influenza or flu-like symptoms so far in 2019

And the number of patients rushed into intensive care with the flu is three times higher than last winter.

Public Health England (PHE) figures revealed there have been 540 people treated in ICU in 2019, compared to 169 a year ago.

The vast majority of people who catch the flu will recover within a couple of weeks.

But vulnerable patients such as the elderly, young children or those with serious illnesses can become severely sick and die from complications such as pneumonia.

As well as higher numbers of GP appointments, hospitals are now seeing greater numbers of people being diagnosed with flu.

Cases of the flu virus in Wales almost trebled in the space of a week - rising from 232 to 690, according to PHE.

LAST WEEK'S FLU IN NUMBERS Between December 9 and December 15 there were: An estimated 9,646 GP appointments in England for influenza-like symptoms (calculated using attendance rates and population data)

in England for influenza-like symptoms (calculated using attendance rates and population data) 586 patients hospitalised by flu in England

174 patients admitted to intensive care with flu, bringing the total in 2019 to 2,092

admitted to intensive care with flu, bringing the total in 2019 to 2,092 Eight deaths in which flu was a contributing factor, bringing the total since September 30 to 23

in which flu was a contributing factor, bringing the total since September 30 to 23 155 new outbreaks of lung-borne illnesses suspected to be flu. 86 of these were in care homes, 56 in schools, seven in hospitals and six 'other' Source: Public Health England

The spike means Wales now has 'moderate' levels of flu activity - the third highest of five categories.

Tests show up to four fifths of people who have caught influenza already this winter have been struck down by a H3N2 strain.

Samples also show most of those strains this winter are similar to the 'Kansas' type, which this year's jab protects against.

It comes as hundreds of thousands of children remain unprotected against the flu despite officials urging parents to get youngsters vaccinated.

Just one in six (16.7 per cent) children between the ages of four and 11 had a flu vaccine by the end of October, down from 19.7 per cent at the same time last year.

Spikes in flu are one of the main reasons A&E departments become so crowded in the winter and last week's figures could be an unwelcome omen for hospitals around the country.

Almost 12,000 patients across Britain went to their GP last week (Dec 9 -15) complaining of influenza-like symptoms, such as a fever, aching muscles and headaches.

This is 25 per cent higher than the week before, where 9,500 – including almost 8,000 from England – sought advice for similar symptoms.

On top of the soaring GP visits, there were more than 50,000 calls made to NHS 111 regarding cold and flu.

The highest activity was 'noted in the five to 14 years age group and in the north of England', PHE's report said.

The Government body said Northern Ireland, as well as Wales, was experiencing 'moderate' levels of flu activity.

The flu is deemed less of a problem in Scotland which, despite experiencing more cases, has a much larger population.

And the virus is circulating at low levels across England but is rising quickly, the Government body said.

This year's sharp rise comes after children's flu vaccines were hit by delays of up to a month because of a pharmaceutical company's testing problem.

In September and October, the Government warned schools they would have to reschedule some of their vaccination sessions because of a drug shortage.

Although this was resolved, the average vaccination rate for primary school children was just 16.7 per cent by October 31.

Schools were hit with 56 outbreaks last week – 30 of which were confirmed to be flu.

More toddlers than schoolchildren have had the nasal flu spray, but rates are still low – 28.5 per cent of two and three-year-olds were vaccinated by the start of November.

As well as schools, dozens of outbreaks have been reported in care homes (86), while there were seven in hospitals.

Dr Jamie Lopez Bernal, head of flu at PHE, said: 'Flu season has now started and so it’s really important that people get their flu vaccine as soon as possible to ensure they are protected against this potentially very serious illness.

'The initial evidence suggests the vaccine is a good match for the main strain of flu that is circulating.

'Flu is very infectious and spread by germs from coughs and sneezes, which can live on hands and surfaces for 24 hours.

'To reduce the risk of spreading flu, use tissues to trap germs when you cough or sneeze, wash your hands often with warm water and soap, and bin used tissues as quickly as possible. Catch it. Bin it. Kill it.'