Surveillance video has captured the shocking moment when police say a 17-year-old girl stole a small airplane at an airport in California and ran it into a fence before he was arrested for theft of the aircraft Wednesday.

The unidentified youth was arrested after she allegedly scaled a fence at Yosemite Fresno airport and stole the King Air 200.

Yosemite Fresno Airport Police say they got a 911 call about the theft and responded about 7.30am.

Yosemite Fresno Airport Police say they got a 911 call about the theft and responded about 7:30 a.m. Pictured is the plane after it came to a stop when its nose crashed into a fence at the airport

Surveillance video has captured the shocking moment when police say a 17-year-old girl stole a small airplane at Yosemite Fresno Airport in California. Pictured is when the plane is seen in the footage leaving an airport building

Once it pull up to the landing strip, the plane suddenly turns around and is seen in the footage returning back to the building

In a video of the aircraft being taken from the airport, the plane is seen leaving the airport building and pulling up to the landing strip.

The aircraft then turns around and stops after its nose crashes into a chain-link fence.

The incident took place in an area of the airport near East Shields and North Winery avenues that was not near the main passenger terminal.

Police said the youth was found seated inside the cockpit, wearing the pilot's headset.

The young, would-be pilot was disoriented and resisted arrest when she was approached by police.

She appears in a separate video, reports KSEE, wearing red, flannel pajama pants and a dark, colored parka when she is lead away from the scene.

Police said the youth was found seated inside the cockpit, wearing the pilot's headset. Officers are pictured with the teen after they found her on the plane

The young, would-be pilot was disoriented and resisted arrest when confronted by officers (pictured), police said

She appears in a separate video wearing red, flannel pajama pants and a dark, colored parka when she is lead away from the scene.

Police said was taken to a juvenile hall on charges of theft of an aircraft.

Her name was not released, due to her age.

No injuries were reported and there was no indication incident was related to domestic terrorism.

Yosemite Fresno Airport Police Chief Drew Bessinger said investigators were joined by the FBI and Federal Aviation Administration to determine how the youth managed to get the airplane started.

The owner of the aircraft also was not identified.

The girl's mother told Fresno news station KFSN that she had spoken with the girl Tuesday night, while she was staying at her boyfriend's and had not heard from her since.

The incident took place in an area of the airport that was not near the main passenger terminal