A woman has melted hearts by revealing how her 10-year-old brother tried to cheer her up by slipping handwritten notes under the bathroom door, after she locked herself in crying.

Posting on Twitter under the handle 'annieedagrannie', Annie from California shared photos of her brother Nick's notes and an 'early Christmas gift' he'd left for her - including a single sock and a pen.

Although she didn't reveal the reason she was upset, it seemed like another woman was the source of her sadness, with Nick writing: 'When she comes she will realize she made you sad and apologize. Everything is going to be OK.'

Her post has been liked more than 300,000 times, with Twitter users admitting they were in tears over her brother's kindness.

Twitter user 'annieedagrannie' (pictured) has received over 40,000 re-tweets on a post about her brother cheering her up

Annie's ten-year-old brother slid under the bathroom door a handwritten letter urging her not to think about the situation upsetting her

Annie's brother left a single sock, a pen set and some quarters outside of the bathroom door as an early Christmas present

Annie also received a note asking her to come out of the bathroom, so that they could do something fun together

Annie's post explaining that she locked herself in the bathroom in tears, received over 300,000 likes

Posting a photo of the handwritten notes, she wrote : 'So I locked myself in the bathroom bawling my eyes out... and next thing I know my 10-year-old brother slides these notes under the door... I don't deserve him.'

One note read: 'If you're going to be thinking about it, it's going to make you sad.'

Another said: 'Come out so we can do something together and fun, and your mood will get better.'

She revealed that she'd followed his suggestion and gone out 'in the freezing cold to throw a football with him'.

A flood of responses to the post came from those who said reading the interaction had left them in tears

'I didn’t even think twice about it,' she wrote. 'I live across the country from him and my parents and i’m here visiting for a week so i don’t get to see him much.'

A flood of responses to the post came from those who said the post had made them emotional and praised her brother for showing empathy.

'Omg this is so precious! It's good to see kids having a good heart and he seems to be really happy to have a big sister like you. He obviously looks up to you which is amazing. Kids are pure and this is proof,' one wrote.

Another said: 'I hope you feel better. And I hope you guys did something fun. He seems like a really great kid and he truly adores you. I'm sure I don't have to tell you to cherish him.'

The thread inspired many to share memorable moments of their own siblings, including those who hadn't tried to lighten tense situation.

One wrote: 'When I was in my teens my baby sister would always come to me and hug me whenever I was crying and tell me it's going to be OK. She literally saved me so many times from suicidal thoughts.'

Another said: 'I love this so much, what an absolute dolly. I'm glad he made you happier! My little brother and his girlfriend stole my stuff when they moved out lol'

A third added: 'My little brother tells me to cry somewhere else, where do I get my refund because this isn't fair'

In a follow up post Annie revealed she and her brother decided to play football after she unlocked the bathroom door.

Posting a photo of the gift her bother left by the door, she asked 'Why is he so good to me'.

'He made me go in the freezing cold to throw a football with him and I didn't even think twice about it haha. I live across the country from him and my parents and I'm here visiting for a week so I don't get to see him much,' she said.

Annie shared a follow up post, detailing that she and her brother decided to play football