Gavin And Stacey star Larry Lamb, who plays Mick Shipman in the iconic show, revealed the series was originally meant to be a little more 'adult' in nature.

However, Larry, 72, said the 'canny' BBC was keen to make sure the show would also appeal to a younger audience.

Appearing on Loose Women on Thursday, he admitted the cast were worried about the Christmas special script, but added that was all 'disregarded' when they read it.

Wow! Gavin And Stacey's Larry Lamb told Loose Women on Thursday the show was originally meant to be a little more 'adult' and admitted the cast were 'worried' about the xmas script

He said: 'I remember right at the beginning, it was going to be a lot more raw for an adult audience but that was quickly stepped back on.

'The BBC were so canny. They had to capture a young audience, so they actually started leaking it online themselves before it went out on BBC Three.

'That was their big problem all along, how good does it have to be to pass muster? how daring can we be? The momentum has got to be built on carry on.'

He said: 'I remember right at the beginning, it was going to be a lot more raw for an adult audience but that was quickly stepped back on'

Larry gave an insight into his call with James Corden, 41, who co-wrote the show with Ruth Jones, when he asked him to film the one-off, which will air on Christmas day.

He said: 'Around May I was just figuring out what I was going to be doing during the summertime.

'I had my phone in my hand and it was a California number. I answered it and it was James. We started to have a chat and I said after ten minutes "what's the deal?

Phew! Larry admitted there were concerns among the cast about the new script, which will air ten years after the last series ended, but they were all quickly reassured

He said: 'Everybody had been through the same sort of worries about it, but by the time we got together to read through it, then of course it's disregarded and overlooked'

'"Are we gonna do another Gavin and Stacey?" You understand why because people just love it so much.

'He said: "Well, that's why I called, it looks like we're going to do an Xmas Special".'

Larry admitted there were concerns among the cast about the new script, which will air ten years after the last series ended, but they were all quickly reassured.

He said: 'Everybody had been through the same sort of worries about it, but by the time we got together to read through it, then of course it's disregarded and overlooked.

'It wasn't working... it could have been over': Gavin And Stacey writers Ruth Jones and James Corden nearly GAVE UP on the Christmas special and had wanted Gavin to have an AFFAIR

Larry said: '[Doing comedy] is like doing your driving test everyday. It can either be right or be wrong'

Silver fox: He cut a very handsome figure as she made his way on set in jeans and a plaid shirt

'We have a director who has directed it right from the beginning - she's the other member of the family you don't see.

'[Doing comedy] is like doing your driving test everyday. It can either be right or be wrong.

'There's nothing that we do that isn't written. With comedy like that around a house, around a table, to get that free form that it feels perfectly natural.'

He said: ' I couldn't sit here and talk like this if I hadn't seen it. There were 200 people in that cinema where we saw it and we were going nuts.

'I have to say it's like a fine fine wine that has stuck away for another ten years and what's come out the best we ever did.'