Premiership Rugby have announced an independent review of the salary cap regulations following the Saracens scandal revealed by Sportsmail.

Former HM Treasury minister Lord Myners will lead the process, which is intended to strengthen the powers of the salary cap in time for next season.

Premiership Rugby (PRL) said they want to 'provide a world-leading system with extensive investigatory powers and appropriately robust sanctions'.

Premiership Rugby have hired Lord Myners to independently review salary cap regulations

This significant move is inextricably linked to Saracens being found guilty of breaching the cap in each of the last three seasons, a judgment that was prompted by a Sportsmail investigation and which came with a 35-point deduction and £5.36m fine.

Meanwhile, PRL have confirmed they are in 'active dialogue' with Saracens about 'additional measures' to ensure their compliance this season, having listened to the concerns of rival clubs and fans.

It is yet to be decided exactly what measures PRL will secure to keep Saracens to their word that they are operating within the cap.

The salary cap regulations allow for a mid-season audit - which could relate to this season or as far back as five seasons ago - and make clear that if Saracens refuse to accept such action they could face a further six-point deduction for a 'failure to cooperate'.

The 71-year-old will consult with stakeholders and all Premiership clubs during the process

Ex-City minister Lord Myners, who sits as a cross-bencher in the House of Lords and previously chaired M&S, has already begun work and is due to make his recommendations in the second quarter of next year, which could then be implemented in the 2020/21 season.

Darren Childs, chief executive of PRL, said: 'The success of Premiership Rugby is based on a group of fiercely competitive clubs who agree to play by the same set of rules on and off the pitch.

'The Salary Cap has been fundamental to promoting competition since its introduction and, while we continue to apply the existing regulations robustly, this Review is designed to ensure that we have a world-leading framework in place for the future.'

The PRL are in 'active dialogue with Saracens Rugby Club over additional measures to confirm its compliance for the 2019-20 season'

Saracens' breaches related to co-investment partnerships between the club's owner Nigel Wray and several of his star players that were uncovered by Sportsmail.

Rival clubs have described Wray's actions as 'flagrant abuse' of the system and have called for Saracens to be stripped of their trophies from the last three seasons.