A coffee stall set up by a First World War veteran that received a special licence to serve through the Blitz is closing its shutters after serving customers for more than 100 years.

Syd's is shutting up shop in London's East End, having 'witnessed and survived some of the capital's most defining moments,' a spokesman for the Museum of London said.

During the Second World War, owner Syd Tothill and wife May obtained a special licence to ignore the Blitz blackouts and open the stall at night to cater for air raid wardens.

First World War veteran Sydney Edward Tothill, who was gassed during the conflict, used £117 of his invalidity pension to open it in 1919.

A photo of London of Syds Coffee Stall in 1920 which has been donated to the Museum for its London Collection when the stall closes for business for the last time on Friday

Like most 'coffee stalls' of its time it did not sell coffee, but a brown liquid containing the essence of coffee beans, chicory and sugar.

It also sold tea, cocoa and Bovex, known as the 'poor man's Bovril'.

And the snack people liked to pair their drink with was a 'sav and slice' which was a saveloy, provided by a German butchers in Hoxton, served with a slice of bread and English mustard.

The couple ran a number of coffee stalls throughout the capital, and also two cafe in Rivington Street and Worship Street, as reported by Spitalfields Life.

Syd Tothill Jnr working on Syds Coffee Stall. He took over the running of the business after he served in the Second World War

They even managed to get a special licence to operate during the Blitz, and worked tirelessly to serve the emergency services and air raid wardens.

Any time the air raid siren would sound, the couple would quickly run and take shelter under a nearby Barclays Bank to protect themselves.

Despite the bravery of the couple, a near bomb miss left Syd suffering from a mental breakdown and May was hit by shrapnel.

The couple, with their daughter Peggy, struggled to keep it open, and it was of such importance to the local community that the Mayor of Shoreditch even petitioned the armed forces to send Syd Junior home from a secret mission to take over.

Jane Tothill at Syds Coffee Stall in 1994 (left) and the present day (right). She is donating the stall to the Museum of London when the store closes for business for the last time on Friday

After the war, Syd Junior and his wife Iris adopted the name Hillary Caterers, commemorating Sir Edmund Hillary's conquest of Everest, and expanded into catering for weddings and events.

It has now passed down through three generations and current owner Jane Tothill, who is Syd's granddaughter, has been serving serving fresh filled rolls, coffee, and loose leaf tea there for more than 30 years.

She is donating the stall to the Museum of London when the store closes for business for the last time on Friday.

The museum's curator of social and working history Vyki Sparkes said: 'Syd's is an invaluable piece of our shared history as Londoners, a quiet witness to the challenges and changes in the heart of the East End over the last 100 years.

Cheryl Diamond working at Syds Coffee Stall which has been donated to the Museum of London when the stall closes for business for the last time on Friday

'We look forward to sharing its fascinating story with our visitors in the new museum.'

Tothill said: 'Celebrating 100 years of service this past March was an incredible milestone and one that I know grandad would have been proud to have reached.

'These celebrations led to my decision that it was time for the stall to move on to tell a new story at the Museum of London.

'I feel it is the best way for Syd's to continue as part of London's heritage and a great way to celebrate the place where you could get the best tea in London for over 100 years.'

During the Second World War, owner Syd Tothill and wife May obtained a special licence to ignore the Blitz blackouts and open the stall at night to cater for air raid wardens

The stall has sat on Calvert Avenue, just off Shoreditch High Street, since 1919.

It was made by a coachbuilder on nearby Hackney Road and custom built with mahogany, etched glass and brass fittings.

It will go display when the Museum of London moves to its new building.