She's the brunette beauty who loves to flaunt her sensational figure in skimpy ensembles on Instagram.

And on Monday, Love Island's Margarita Smith wowed in another scantily-clad outfit while enjoying some free time by the pool on her Instagram page.

The aged care worker, 26, stepped out in a strappy fluro pink bikini with a very low neckline and a cut-out detail that showed off her trim and toned torso.



Hot girl summer! Love Island Australia's Margarita Smith (pictured) showed off her ample cleavage in a fluro pink bikini as she took to her Instagram on Monday

Margarita accessorised her look with a matching pink scrunchie on her right arm and oversized straw hat.

In another photo she posted, the brunette stunner posed in a shallow pool to show off the suit's thong detail.

Her Love Island co-stars were quick to comment underneath the snap.

If you've got it, flaunt it! The aged care worker, 26, stepped out in a strappy fluro pink bikini with a very low neckline and a cut-out detail that showed off her trim and toned torso

Blake Williamson wrote: 'Love that bloody hat'.

Meanwhile, Jessie Wynter, who also appeared on the Channel Nine show commented with a series of heart-eyed emojis.

On Saturday, Margarita flaunted her backside in another post, showing off her pert derrière.

That's cheeky: In another photo she posted, the brunette stunner posed in a shallow pool to show off the suit's thong detail

The raunchy snap comes after eagle-eyed fans busted Margarita for editing some of her Instagram photos.

In her recent blunder, the brunette took to Instagram with a photo of herself and co-star Jessie Wynter at a fashion event in Melbourne earlier this month.

Her followers were quick to notice the unnatural 'warping' around her figure and in the background the image - a tell-tale sign of Photoshop.

Earlier this month, her savvy fans called her out for editing her snaps in another photo where she modelled activewear.

What's going on here? Margarita (R) suffered a Photoshop fail in a recent photo with co-star Jessie Wynter (L). In the snap, the vertical lines in the background appear to be warped around her bicep area