She was making her last appearance before the Christmas break.

And Lisa Snowdon left Ruth Langsford seething during Thursday's This Morning, after her husband Eamonn Holmes playfully dragged the fashion guru onto his knee.

After learning that he wouldn't see her again until the New Year, Eamonn grabbed Lisa's hand and dragged her over to sit at his side, and Ruth feigned outrage by moving to another chair as she jokingly said: 'Carry on you two!'

Hilarious: Lisa Snowdon left Ruth Langsford seething during Thursday's This Morning, after her husband Eamonn Holmes playfully dragged the fashion guru onto his knee

As ever Eamonn and Ruth were presenting the fashion segment, as Lisa gave viewers suggestions on pyjamas for the festive season.

Ruth thanked Lisa for hosting the segment, which led Eamonn to point out: 'We won't see you before Christmas, have a lovely Christmas.'

Feigning upset, Lisa responded: 'I won't see you guys!' before leaning across Ruth to grab Eamonn's hand.

The Irish broadcaster then dragged Lisa across to briefly perch on his knee, before she sandwiched herself between him and Ruth.

Tragic: Lisa feigned devastation when she learned it was the last time she would see Eamonn and Ruth until the New Year

Cheeky: Eamonn then dragged Lisa across to briefly perch on his knee, before she sandwiched herself between him and Ruth

Ruth also poked fun at the moment, by pretending to be outraged, as she added: 'I'll go sit over here and carry on you two.'

The stars all seemed to take the moment in festive humour, as Lisa planted a cheeky kiss on both Eamonn and Ruth's cheeks, and embraced the pair as they cut to a commercial break.

As ever Lisa also cut a stylish figure as she hosted the segment, teaming a purple satin midi skirt with a classic rainbow striped jumper.

Eamonn and Ruth's hosting comes following reports that they are in the midst of a feud with fellow This Morning presenter Phillip Schofield.

Funny: Ruth also poked fun at the moment, by pretending to be outraged, as she added: ' I'll go sit over here and carry on you two'

It is claimed eight different ITV presenters have broken their silence regarding Phillip's attitude.

A report by The Sun stated the situation behind the scenes at This Morning had become 'toxic' in recent months, with employees too scared to speak out publicly for fear of backlash.

The Mail On Sunday revealed relations between Phillip, Ruth and Eamonn are said to be so bad that the couple snubbed the show’s Christmas party to avoid him.

Cute: The stars all seemed to take the moment in festive humour, as they counted down to Christmas Day

Chic: As ever Lisa also cut a stylish figure as she hosted the segment, teaming a purple satin midi skirt with a classic rainbow striped jumper

Hitting back at the reports, a spokesperson for ITV said: 'It’s deeply disappointing and unfair for Phillip to be the target of this sort of malicious gossip.

'Phillip is a much respected broadcaster and colleague and this is absolutely not a description of This Morning that we recognise.

'Holly and Phil are great friends both on and off screen and are popular among viewers and colleagues alike.'

This Morning airs weekdays from 10:30am on ITV.