Salvador Martinez-Romero, 20, killed a woman and stabbed three people in Portland

A 20-year-old attacker who stabbed a woman to death and wounded three others has been pictured for the first time.

Salvador Martinez-Romero, 20, killed one woman and critically injured another when he launched an attack at Wells Fargo bank in a Murray Hill Marketplace shopping center, Beaverton suburb, Portland.

He then stabbed a man in a gym car park at 11am yesterday before stealing his car and driving to the Tigard suburb, where he stabbed a woman and took her car.

Police officers from both areas gave chase and managed to capture Martinez-Romero after he jumped out of the vehicle.

He has been arrested on suspicion of murder, attempted murder and robbery.

'This was a horrific crime, and our hearts go out to those victims and their families,' Beaverton Police Chief Ronda Groshong told reporters.

'This is an ongoing investigation with several crime scenes. ... It's going to take a while to process.'

A woman was stabbed to death and another seriously injured at Wells Fargo bank in Murray Hill Marketplace shopping center, Portland, Oregon

People are pictured outside the first crime scene, which remained closed as a forensic investigation was carried out

A bystander reported seeing a badly wounded woman with her face covered in bandages 'like a pillow' being carried out of the bank

The surviving stabbing victims were rushed to hospitals for treatment. There is no word on their conditions at this time.

Beaverton police identified the alleged attacker as Salvador Martinez-Romero, according to OregonLive.

It wasn't immediately known if he has a lawyer. Police didn't release any details about the motive for the attack.

Noushin Luluvachi from nearby Bella Salon told the newspaper that police cars flooded the plaza and authorities ordered businesses to keep their doors closed.

Police say the suspect stole a car from the parking and fled but was later arrested

Dillon Prickett, 35, said he pulled up a coffee shop next to the bank and saw officers going inside past a visibly shaken employee.

'She looked at me and she was crying,' Prickett recalled. 'All of the mascara was coming down her face.'

Prickett, from Aloha, later saw a badly injured woman being brought out on a stretcher.

'She had so much bandaging on her face it looked like an airplane pillow,' he told OregonLive.

Murray Hill Marketplace is home to several businesses, including a bank, a fitness center, Safeway and Starbucks

The bank and salon are part of a shopping center that also includes a credit union, Planet Fitness, Safeway and Starbucks, among other businesses.

Beaverton is known for being Nike's headquarters.

Washington County dispatchers told Fox12 Oregon the call began as a report of a bank robbery in the 14000 block of Southwest Teal Boulevard.