Married At First Sight star Martha Kalifatidis' brother Nickolaos has been pictured clearly for the first time, as mystery surrounds the young sibling.

Whereas Martha's mother Mary, father Theo and sister Sophie all feature heavily in the 31-year-old's Instagram posts, Nickolaos, 21, is never present.

However, in early 2018, Mary shared a rare shot of the entire family of five together.

Secret sibling! Married At First Sight star Martha Kalifatidis' brother Nickolaos (seen here) has been pictured clearly for the first time, as mystery surrounds the young man

As Martha took centre stage in the picture, Nickolaos stood in the background.

In May, Martha's mother Mary shared a birthday tribute to Nickolaos to her own 16,700 followers, but this has since been deleted.

During Martha's TV wedding to Michael Brunelli in January, the long-haired sibling was sat on a row behind his parents, and barely appeared on camera.

Can you see the resemblance? In January 2018, the Kalifatidis family posed for a rare picture together. Pictured L-R: Father Theo, mum Mary, sister Sophie, Martha and Nickolaos

Mystery! Whereas Martha's mother Mary, father Theo and sister Sophie all feature heavily in the 31-year-old's Instagram posts, Nickolaos, 21, is never present

Many of Martha's 296,000 fans have been baffled by Nickolaos's lack of presence, and regularly comment on her posts asking for information about him.

Although Nickolaos has a barely-active Instagram, his face is not featured in any of the images, and he does not have a Facebook account.

In recent weeks, both Martha and Michael have fueled the mystery by purposely sharing pictures of the sibling, while hiding his face in each of them.

Back row! During Martha's TV wedding to Michael Brunelli in January, the long-haired sibling (circled) sat a row behind his parents, and barely appeared on camera

'Where's Nick?' Many of Martha's fans have been baffled by Nickolaos's lack of presence, and regularly comment on her posts asking for information. Pictured: Martha and mum Mary

Tease! In recent weeks, both Martha and Michael have fueled the mystery by purposely sharing pictures of the sibling, while hiding his face in each of them

Michael recently revealed that unlike Martha, Nickolaos is not a fan of taking photographs of himself.

'Imagine a Kalifatidis that doesn't believe in selfies... Meet Nick,' joked Michael.

Not much is known about Nickolaos, except the fact he's a keen sportsman, big fan of golf and was once rumoured to be dating Ines Basic.

'Imagine a Kalifatidis that doesn't believe in selfies... Meet Nick,' joked Michael last week, explaining that unlike Martha, Nickolaos does not like taking pictures of himself