Mohammed Shah Subhani, 27, known as Shah, was reported missing on May 7 when he failed to return to his home in Hounslow, west London

Detectives have found the remains of a father-of-one who disappeared eight months ago.

Mohammed Shah Subhani, 27, known as Shah, was reported missing on May 7 when he failed to return to his home in Hounslow, west London.

His car was found with bullet holes in it weeks later, leading detectives to declare the case a murder investigation which led to eight different arrests, including a 68-year-old woman at Heathrow airport on suspicion of perverting the course of justice.

The grisly discovery follows a massive forensic search which began two weeks ago in remote countryside beside the M40 motorway near Beaconsfield in Buckinghamshire.

Detective Chief Inspector Noel McHugh, from Specialist Crime, who is leading the investigation, said: 'Today we can confirm that we have recovered Mohammed Shah Subhani's remains. I met with Shah's family and I broke this awful news to them, something that I hoped I would never have to do. This has been devastating news for Shah's family at this truly unimaginable time. Shah had everything to live for and was loved by everyone; not only was he murdered, he was prevented a decent and dignified burial.'

It is understood that Shah had travelled to Acton police station on May 7, where according to police, those responsible for his death believed he had £3,800 returned to him along with a set of number plates and two mobile phones.

The grisly discovery of his body follows a massive forensic search which began two weeks ago in remote countryside beside the M40 motorway near Beaconsfield in Buckinghamshire

He drove his white Audi Q3 to a business premises in Hounslow where he was due to collect £5,000. Police say he entered but did not leave the premises, while his Q3 was taken to Camden and stored with false registration plates.

DCI McHugh also confirmed that his team has now ruled out the possibility that Shah was in his own car at the time it was shot at - the vehicle was recovered with bullet damage on Wednesday, 19 June in Camden.

DCI McHugh said: 'I believe that Shah's discovery is something that his killer(s) were confident would never happen and whilst the worst possible news for his loved ones, it presents a significant springboard for our investigation. I believe this area is known to a small group of people.

'However, as I have said before, we have a substantial amount of land left to search and it is very challenging terrain. Officers, police staff and experts have been forced to build bridges and walkways, and divert significant volumes of water.

'This area is fairly isolated and you would probably have to know it existed, as opposed to it being stumbled across. It is not visible to a passing motorist. But a car parked up would possibly appear out of the norm to locals.

'The wooded area has evidence of spent shotgun cartridges, these are not connected to Shah's death, but I would be keen to speak to people who use this area, particularly on or after 7th May.

'This is painstaking and complex work as we search for evidence and we are likely to be here for several more weeks while we complete this important task.'

His car was found with bullet holes in it weeks later, leading detectives to declare the case a murder investigation

Reacting to today's announcement, Shah's sister Quirat said: 'We kept our faith high and believed our beloved brother will return. It broke our hearts and shattered our world when we were told Shah's body was discovered in an abandoned woodland 15 miles from home.

'Someone maliciously killed the apple of our eye, turned our world upside down and dumped him in an isolated woodland for his body to decompose and for us to be left with nothing but his bones, this will haunt us for a lifetime.

'Someone must know something... they must come forward and help us get justice for Shah. Our hearts will never heal but what our brother does deserve is for justice to be served. We need the public's help to think back seven months and try to remember anything that can help.'

DCI McHugh said: 'And we know that one of the suspect vehicles, a stolen black BMW X5, was seen here in the days after Mr Subhani vanished on 7 May, so we need to hear from anyone who saw that vehicle with two people in it parked up or moving around Hedgerley Lane.'

Scotland Yard had offered a £20,000 reward for information leading to Mr Subhani's whereabouts, as well as to the arrest and prosecution of anyone connected with his death.

Detectives arrested seven people in connection with Mr Subhani's disappearance.

A 22-year-old man arrested on suspicion of murder on December 9 was bailed to return to a police station at a later date.

Another six people who were arrested since the former courier's disappearance have all been released under investigation.

Two men, aged 22 and 25, were held on suspicion of murder, kidnap and perverting the course of justice, while a 23-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of perverting the course of justice.

A 20-year-old man and a 19-year-old were both arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to commit murder and kidnap. The 20-year-old was also arrested on suspicion of perverting the course of justice.

Another 22-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to murder and a search warrant was executed at a residential address in west London.

Anyone with information can call police on 101 quoting Operation Rockton, or to remain anonymous contact Crimestoppers on 0800 555111 or online.

A 68-year-old woman who was arrested at Heathrow Airport on Tuesday, 17 December on suspicion of perverting the course of justice, assisting an offender and making a false statement has been bailed pending further enquiries.