Boris Johnson faced the fury of trade unions and Labour today as he signalled his intention to put protecting and improving the NHS at the heart of his Tory majority government.

The Prime Minister set out plans to enshrine in law a major funding boost for the beleaguered health service, which was one of the public's key concerns along with Brexit at the election last week.

He also unveiled plans to offer free hospital parking to 'those in greatest need', a group including regular outpatients, relatives of the gravely ill and NHS staff working unsociable hours.

But Unison general secretary Dave Prentis said: 'After years of playing Scrooge, the Conservatives now want to cast themselves as Father Christmas and the saviors of the NHS.

'But trying to claim credit for generosity, when all they're doing is loosening the tight grip they've held on resources for almost a decade, won't fool many.

The Prime Minister set out plans to enshrine in law a major funding boost for the beleaguered health service, one of the public's key concerns along with Brexit at the election last week

The Queen's Speech also included plans to offer free hospital parking to 'those in greatest need', a group including regular outpatients, relatives of the gravely ill and NHS staff

'Simply writing into law plans to continue funding the NHS way below what's needed will make under-investment the new normal.'

And Labour's John McDonnell added: 'This is more pomp and ceremony – the second Queen's Speech in three months – from a Government hopelessly out of touch with the needs and hopes of people in this country.'

'There is nothing new in this Queen's Speech for our NHS and public services or people struggling this Christmas, except for strong suggestions that this Government wants to slash regulations on its way to making the UK a Trump-supporting tax haven.'

Mr Johnson's proposed NHS Funding Bill forms the centrepiece of his new Queen's Speech which he will now be able to deliver in full after crushing Labour at the general election.

The funding bill will for the first time ever legally commit a government to delivering a pledged multi-year funding increase to the health service.

It means that the NHS budget will increase by £33.9billion in cash terms by 2023/24.

It is a direct attempt by Mr Johnson to permanently seize control of the NHS from Labour as a political issue, paving the way for potential future election victories.

When delivered, the funding increase will represent the largest cash settlement in the history of the health service.

The government said: 'The Government is committed to increasing investment to deliver a world-class health service that provides high quality care for all.'

Mr Johnson's NHS plans also include his oft-repeated promise to deliver 50,000 nurses as well as 6,000 more doctors and 6,000 more primary care professionals in general practice.

Unison general secretary Dave Prentis said: 'After years of playing Scrooge, the Conservatives now want to cast themselves as Father Christmas and the saviors of the NHS'

It comes as the latest statistics from NHS England painted a bleak picture of the winter pressures beleaguering hospitals.

The number of ambulance delays exceeding an hour have almost tripled in a year, from 1,491 in 2018 to 4,469 in the week up to December 15.

Attendances at A&E have risen compared to last year, to just under 100,000 in the same week, and increasing numbers of patients are staying in beds for a week or longer.

At the same time, 892 beds were closed due to norovirus - almost double the number this time last year.

Responding to the statistics, Labour's shadow health and social care secretary Jonathan Ashworth said: 'The Tories have the great responsibility of fixing the crisis in the NHS which 10 years of their underfunding has created.

'Boris Johnson has an 80-seat majority - he has no excuse for not getting a grip of this NHS crisis and putting patients first.'

The Queen's Speech also includes the PM's commitment to fund and build 40 new hospitals over the next ten years - a claim which has been questioned by Labour.

Meanwhile, there will also be 50 million more appointments in GP surgeries every year so that waiting times are slashed.

The government will also deliver free car parking at hospitals for 'those in greatest need'.

That is likely to apply to frequent outpatient visitors, visitors who have relatives who are gravely ill and workers on the night shift where public transport is not available.

The Queen's Speech also contains a cast iron guarantee that the NHS is 'not, and never will be, for sale' in a move to kill off a key Labour attack line that dominated the general election campaign.

It also states unequivocally that the price of NHS drugs will not be 'on the table' during post-Brexit trade talks - a claim repeatedly made by Jeremy Corbyn.

'As the UK leaves the EU, we will forge strong new trade deal with countries around the world,' the government said.

'However, the NHS is not, and never will be, for sale. The government is committed to the guiding principles of the NHS - that it is universal and free at the point of need.

'The price the NHS pays for drugs is not on the table.'