She's the former Bachelorette who is passionate about musicals.

And Georgia Love was beaming on the opening night of Chicago in Melbourne on Thursday along with her fiancé Lee Elliot.

The Channel 10 journalist, 31, stepped out for the event in a white vest, with a deep V-neckline, and shorts by Mossman.

White hot! Georgia Love beamed on the opening night of Chicago: The Musical in Melbourne alongside her fiancé Lee Elliot on Thursday. Pictured: the couple

She accessorised her look with colorful pendant earrings and a pearl headband by Roxy Jacenko accessorises and completed the ensemble with a white mini purse and dusty pink mules.

The brunette beauty kept her makeup simple with a flawless base, peachy cheeks, lashings of mascara and a nude glossy lip.

Lee looked handsome in his navy blue ensemble, paired with a white tee and sneakers alongside his love-of-three-years.

Perfect pair: The Channel 10 journalist, 31, stepped out for the event in a white vest, with a deep V-neckline, and shorts. While Lee looked handsome in his navy blue ensemble, paired with a white tee and sneakers

Rare night out! Comedian Dave 'Hughesy' Hughes, 49, and his wife Holly, 39, dressed up for the opening night

Comedian Dave 'Hughesy' Hughes, 49, and his wife Holly, 39, dressed up for the opening night.

Hughesy opted for a blue tailored suit with paisley shirt and black leather shoes.

His wife Holly, who is a journalist, wowed in a black silk shirt, a high waisted pink and bronze skirt and tan platform sandals. She accessorised her look with flower earrings with a black and brown purse.

Renowned interior designer and Block judge Shaynna Blaze, 56 , flaunted her sensational frame in a figure hugging houndstooth dress.

Elegant: Renowned interior designer and Block judge Shaynna Blaze, 56 , flaunted her sensational frame in a figure hugging houndstooth dress

The blonde beauty accessorised her look with a pair of tassel pendant earrings, a silver chain necklace and black heels to round out her ensemble.

Neighbours newcomer Jemma Donovan, 19, beamed on the red carpet ready to watch her father, Jason Donovan, take to the stage.

She looked angelic in a light blue frock that featured pleated sleeves and skirt.

Angelic: Neighbours newcomer Jemma Donovan, 19, beamed on the red carpet ready to watch her father, Jason Donovan, take to the stage

Red carpet ready: Longtime Neighbours actor Alan Fletcher stepped out on the red carpet with his journalist wife Jennifer Hansen

Her deep blonde locks cascaded down her outfit which she teamed with a small white purse and sandals.

Jemma's co-star and longtime Neighbours actor Alan Fletcher stepped out on the red carpet with his journalist wife Jennifer Hansen.

He looked dapper in a maroon checked blazer with a navy shirt and trousers.

Jennifer wowed in a stunning sequin gown which she teamed with a silver clutch that contrasted with her blonde tresses.

Loved up: Rob Mills, who also stars on Neighbours, hit the red carpet with girlfriend Georgia Tunney who looked effortlessly chic in a navy blue top, black slacks and platform heels

Beaming beauty: Neighbours star Rebekah Elmaloglou opted for a chic black look with a blazer, silk top trousers and heels, accessorised with a yellow purse

Rob Mills, who also stars on Neighbours, hit the red carpet with girlfriend Georgia Tunney who looked effortlessly chic in a navy blue top, black slacks and platform heels.

Meanwhile, the actor looked suave in his grey and black suit ensemble, which he paired with a sleek tie.

Fellow Neighbours star Rebekah Elmaloglou opted for a chic black look with a blazer, silk top trousers and heels, accessorised with a yellow purse.

Date night: Stefan Dennis, who plays Erinsborough businessman Paul Robinson on Neighbours, also attend the event accompanied by his wife Gail (pictured)

Family bonding: Australian entertainment icons Bert and Patti Newton stepped out for the event with their daughter Lauren who brought her daughter Eva (left) to the opening night

Stefan Dennis, who plays Erinsborough businessman Paul Robinson on Neighbours, also attend the event accompanied by his wife Gail.

Australian entertainment icons Bert and Patti Newton stepped out for the event with their daughter Lauren, who brought her daughter Eva to attend the opening night.

Actor Stephen Curry also cut a dapper figure for the red carpet alongside his glowing mother Helen.