Spirits were high as Amanda Holden made her latest exit from Global Radio studios in London on Thursday, shortly after recovering from a broken leg.

The presenter gave onlookers a beaming smile while making her way across London's Leicester Square after co-hosting her latest Heart morning show with Jamie Theakston.

Opting for a distinctive silk dress with a plunging front, Amanda, 48, caught the eye eye as she prepared for the journey home.

Upbeat: Spirits were high as Amanda Holden made her latest exit from Global radio studios in London on Thursday, shortly after recovering from a broken leg

The presenter added to her look with a sweeping black winter coat, while on-trend black ankle boots rounded things off.

Amanda appeared to have a spring in her step after damaging her leg and subsequently relying on a scooter to navigate Leicester Square while she recovered.

The presenter snapped her fibula in two places when she slipped on a children's obstacle course in the middle of the sea while holidaying in Cyprus.

Here she comes: The presenter gave onlookers a beaming smile while making her way across London's Leicester Square after co-hosting her latest Heart morning show with Jamie Theakston

Looking good: Opting for a distinctive silk dress with a plunging front, Amanda, 48, caught the eye eye as she prepared for the journey home

Amanda revealed she was 'showing off' on a family trip with her husband Chris Hughes and youngest daughter Hollie, seven, when the accident occurred.

On her return to work, she said: 'It was like an inflatable assault course, like Wipe Out, my eldest daughter [Alexa, 13] was on a school trip so Hollie was with me and Chris and she was desperate to get on this thing.'

Admitting she had to step in as the more athletic parent on the trip, she added: 'If you've seen my husband's hair, it's fabulous, so he didn't want to get his hair ruined, so he was standing on the side.

Finishing touches: The presenter added to her look with a sweeping black winter coat, while on-trend black ankle boots rounded things off

'So I said I won't read my book, I'll try and be a good mother. So I ended up going on the assault course and went round and round on my hands and knees like the geriatric I am.'

Before her full recovery, Amanda jokingly used a knee scooter to whizz around the office at Heart.

In a clip posted to the station's social media accounts, the TV and radio personality rested her broken limb - which was supported by an orthopedic cast - on the seat of her ambulation aid while moving around with confidence to Chamillionaire's hit single Ridin'.