Today's Birthday, December 20: American actor Jonah Hill (1983 - )

Jonah Hill was set to play one of the DC Universe's most iconic villains, but pulled out after he was unable to reach a deal with the studio.

Warner Brothers, which owns DC, is re-invigorating its Batman franchise after a series of movies tanked in cinemas and received less than favourable press coverage.

Hill, who made his name in Hollywood after his breakout role in teen comedy Superbad, was set to play either Riddler or the Penguin in the upcoming films.

But according to movie insider website Screen Rant, the studio pulled the plug on the actor after protracted negotiations, instead offering the Penguin role to Colin Farrell and the Riddler role to Paul Dano.

The roles would have given the actor a chance to star along Robert Pattinson, who has taken over the role of Batman from Alec Baldwin.

Jonah Hill Feldstein was born and grew up in Los Angeles, California.

From a young age he was involved in showbusiness, with his mother a costume designer and his father a tour accountant for Guns n' Roses.

Growing up in the wealthy LA neighbourhood of Cheviot Hills, he attended the Crossroads private school in Santa Monica, where her met Dustin Hoffman's son Jake.

Together they use to make prank calls and Hill once even managed to convince a motel to install a tank for a pet seal on behalf of actor Tobey Maguire, according to Business Insider.

Hoffman took a shine to the young Hill and helped him get the role in 2004 film I Heart Huckabees, which led to his role in The 40-Year-Old Virgin.

But it wasn't until three years later that Hill made a name for himself in Hollywood as a sex-obsessed teenager called Seth in Superbad.

Hill was typecast for a long time in Hollywood as the awkward, overweight, funny man, but has recently remade himself as a theatrical force to be reckoned with.

Starting with his Academy Award-nominated role in sports drama Moneyball in 2011, the actor has starred in a number of serious roles.

His ascendancy from fat funnyman to serious director culminated this year with feature film Mid90s, which he wrote, produced and directed.