This is the hair-raising moment a snake owner's 14-foot-long reticulated python slithered its way up a staircase bannister - after having a soak in the bath.

Eve Wellard, who owns 21 other snakes, filmed two-year-old Izzy taking the opportunity to 'stretch out' in the safety of her home.

The footage was recorded at their home in Plymouth, Devon.

'[Izzy] was on the banister exercising after having a soak in the bath,' Eve told the Sun.

'It's important for big snakes to have opportunities to exercise and stretch out because when they are too sedentary their risk of health issues increases.'

Having to spend most of her day confined to a tank, Izzy appeared relaxed as she pushed herself up the staircase by gripping it with her body.

Izzy is the largest reptile in Eve's collection, which also includes a Burmese python and a Brazilian rainbow boa constrictor.

Izzy the 14-foot-long reticulated python is filmed slithering her way up a staircase bannister - after having a soak in the bath at owner Eve Wellard's home in Plymouth, Devon

She also owns various other exotic species such as a savannah monitor lizard and a gecko, which in the wild could be prey for some of Eve's larger snakes.

Reticulated pythons are some of the longest species in the world, with an average length of 10 to 20 feet, but are allowed to kept as pets.

Eve isn't the only reptile enthusiast taking care of extraordinarily long snakes.

'[Izzy] was on the banister exercising after having a soak in the bath,' said Eve, who 21 other snakes as well as several other exotic pets

'It's important for big snakes to have opportunities to exercise and stretch out because when they are too sedentary their risk of health issues increases'

Marcus Hobbs, 31, from Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, keeps an 18ft python in a tank in his three-bedroom, having bought it when it was only eight inches long.

Massive Hexxie is believed to be the world's biggest ever Burmese python and it feeds on rabbits, stillborn deer, calves, goats and pigs supplied by local farmers.

Richard Wiper, 33, from Ipswich kept 113 exotic pets including 45 snakes until they all disappeared in the middle of a row with his partner Nick Powell, 39.