The mugshot of Bryant Budi, 28, a North Carolina man, convicted of trying to purchase radioactive material for the purchase of killing his roommate, will spend more than six years is prison

A North Carolina man convicted of trying to purchase radioactive material to put into his roommate's food to kill him has been sentenced to six years in prison.

Bryant Budi, 28, also tried to hire a hitman to murder the unnamed victim before trying to buy the poison.

'I can't apologize enough,' Budi wrote in a hand-printed letter in late November to U.S. District Judge Robert Conrad. 'It was risky, senseless behavior, and I realized it as soon as the authorities prevented my intended misdeed. I truly thank God that no physical harm has occurred,' the Charlotte Observer reported.

Budi becomes the first person in the United States to be convicted of trying to buy radioactive materials to commit murder or cause serous bodily injury, the U.S. Attorney's Office said.

Budi and his 30-year-old roommate had been at odds for more than a year before he went online to hire a hit man in spring 2018, court documents revealed.

He said he wanted to kill his roommate, a friend who had become homeless and moved in with him, because the man threatened to kill Budi's family if he didn't give him money, an affidavit from Christopher Nasca of the Department of Homeland Security showed.

Budi began shopping for the gunman in late April on a website that serves as a marketplace for illegal drugs, counterfeit goods and weapons, as the affidavit states.

However, unbeknownst to Budi, he was negotiating with an undercover Homeland Security agent in New York. The two went back and forth on what it would take to have Budi’s enemy killed, the Charlotte Observer said.

Budi first offered $4,000 to an undercover investigator posing as a hitman, prosecutors said.

Bryant Budi told a federal judge,''I can't apologize enough. It was risky, senseless behavior, and I realized it as soon as the authorities prevented my intended misdeed. I truly thank God that no physical harm has occurred'

'The previous person I hired didn’t do the job and left with my money,” the Observer said, citing the affidavit. 'So I am just making sure that I am not getting into the same hole again.'

'My enemy that I am trying to get has been making my life a living hell and extorting me for a year now,' Budi said in an April 2018 email to the agent. 'Basically make it look like robbery went wrong,' he added.

Another time Budi allegedly wrote to the Homeland Security agent, painting a picture of the person he wanted killed.

'He is 30 years old. lives in apt in Charlotte, NC. goes only to dollar tree and gas station (doesn’t go anywhere). doesn’t know fighting skill.' Budi wrote, according to the affidavit. 'basically make it look like robbery went wrong. don’t care what weapon you use, as long as you get it done.'

At the same Budi searched online for radioactive material himself, prosecutors said.

'do you sell ricin as well? basically I want to use it for you know ... how much is a lethal dosage?' Budi wrote on April 26, the Charlotte Observer said. 'how long would it take for a person to die if he/she ingest that? how much could I get for $500.'

Another undercover FBI employee posing as a seller shipped him a placebo powder.

Budi also admitted in emails he tried to poison the roommate before but the man had thrown it up.

In June 2018, federal agents arrested Budi. He pleaded guilty to attempted possession of radioactive material with intent to cause death or serious bodily injury to another person. The maximum sentence was life in prison.