Advertisement

From Brad Pitt's crumbling wall to Micheal Douglas's rubbish-strewn gardens, these pictures reveal the state of megastars' multi-million-euro Majorcan holiday homes.

Also seen is tennis star Boris Becker's €10.5 million (£8.9m) home in Arta, which once boasted a pristine tennis court and sauna but is now occupied by squatters.

Pieces from the stone wall outside Pitt's mansion can be seen falling onto the pavement and his neighbour said that although the actor bought his home more than three years ago, he has not yet stepped inside.

Another villa which looks like it could do with some love is Hollywood star Michael Douglas's 250-acre estate which was listed for a reduced price of €29.9 (£25.3) million in June, having originally been on the market for €50 million (£42.2m).

Pieces of the outside wall of Brad Pitt's home in Majorca, which he bought in 2016, have fallen into the road and neighbours said they've never seen the Hollywood star at the property

Parts of the broken stone wall, pictured right, have fallen onto the road and the black fence appears to have moved as well

According to real estate agent Alessandro Proto, Brad Pitt fell in love with the sun-soaked area after shooting film Allied.

Proto said: 'Brad Pitt fell in love with the Balearic Islands after filming his movie in the Canaries, and he tasked us with finding him a house in Mallorca.'

The 55-year-old actor purchased the €3.5 million (£2.9m) home in June 2016 in the trendy port area of Port D'Andratx while he was splitting up from his wife Angelina Jolie.

But the next door neighbour said he's never see Pitt at the property - and this is a growing trend of celebrities on the island who've left their estates to stand empty.

A section of Pitt's fence and outside wall also appear to have broken and it looks as though he's never set foot on the place with the curtains closed and the pool unused.

Brad's abode still looks tidy but the curtains are closed and the pool unused, with a neighbour saying it hasn't been occupied

Some other parts of the stone work leading up to the drive have also started to chip with little pieces falling off the wall

Although having a prominent chip in the driveway and marks on the road, Brad's gates are still perfectly painted black

Debris from the wall covers some of the pavement outside the Hollywood star's home, right on a hill and the broken wall left, with larger chunks resting in the road

Meanwhile, bankrupt tennis star Boris Becker's €10.5million (£8.9m) home in Arta is occupied with squatters and is in the hands of administrators who were trying to sell it - but have now given up and taken it off the market.

The 12-bedroom property was being sold by Balearic Properties and the Prestige Property Group, but it no longer features on either website.

Since May 2018, the property has been taken over by German Georg Berres and his hippie squad called the 'Intergalactic Health and Rescue Team’, after Becker was made bankrupt owing tens of millions.

Squatters are living in bankrupt tennis star Boris Becker's €10.5million house in Arta on the island (Becker is pictured golfing while on holiday in Majorca in 2009)

Part of a trim inside the pool filled with murky water can be seen barely hanging on at either end

Land around Becker's home is overgrown with dozens of weeds and a play set looking very worse for wear with faded paint

Georg Berres, pictured, is squatting in the once grand home which includes a swimming pool filled with green water

Paint has peeled off one of the walls which also has mould on it, left, while two planks of wood are placed over a bath, right

Berres, pictured at the villa, claimed glamorous images of the property which were displayed on a Spanish listings website are also more than 10 years old

A building by the run-down pool looks faded and weeds grow freely around the once grand swimming spot

Since moving into the sprawling holiday home, squatters have put up a hammock on one of the stone verandas

The front of Becker's holiday home looks worn out with dark stains running down from the windows and marks on the floor

In its current state, the property looks nothing like the glamorous images once used on property websites, which were ten years old, according to Berres - who says the property is worthless.

Speaking in a previous interview, he said: ‘They still want to sell this, the price is over 10 million Euros, this is ridiculous, try to find anyone who wants to have it for a million, a cent, you won’t find anyone'.

When the property was up for sale, the listing said nothing about the wretched state of the twelve bedrooms and bathrooms, gym, swimming pool, basketball court, tennis court, and horse stables.

Instead it stated: ‘The main residence is outstanding for its exotic pieces of furniture, originating from Morocco, India and other corners of the world.

Weeds grow around the swimming pool that has faded after years of being left uncared for (pictured is squatter Berres)

A kitchen area inside is covered with bottles and jars of food, used by the squatters, while cobwebs hang from the ceiling

The Becker home was put on the market for 10 million euros but it is now thought that administrators have given up and taken it off the market. Pieces of rubbish are pictured on the property while leaves gather around bushes

Rubbish and large plastic bags are seen pushed to the corner inside one of the rooms that is covered in a layer of dirt

A dog strolls freely around the once-grand property, which is now being lived in by German squatters

A large scratch is seen on the wooden floor and basic furniture has been left inside one of the many rooms of the home

A wooden lounger is discarded by some bushes in the overgrown land on Boris Becker's Majorcan holiday property

'The Moroccan style pool house is next to the 30-metre swimming pool, and offers an ideal area for resting and relaxing. A sauna, a steam bath, a gymnasium and a changing room complete this splendid wellness area.'

The glamorous images of the property which were displayed on a Spanish listings website are also more than 10 years old, Berres claimed.

The property advert boasts of a 'magnificent setting' which could serve as a 'most ideal location for dinner parties, barbecues and grand celebrations of all kinds' for a large number of guests.

However, when estate agents came to visit the property they could not believe what they were seeing when they arrived to take pictures, the German said.

He said: 'We've had people at the gate introducing themselves as real estate agents wanting to take pictures. They get on the ground and say: "What the f*** happened here?'"

According to an old property listing, the 'very special tennis court' (pictured) has the same surface as the one used in the Australian Open, and the net and supports come directly from Wimbledon

A layer of dust covers the stairs while marks have appeared on a mirror left inside this room at Becker's former holiday home

Outside walls at the home have become dirty and marks have appeared on the brick floor after the home was left empty

Glass in the bathroom doors is smashed and mould is spread across the entrance to the sauna, left, while dirt and grime can be seen around one of the house's sinks, right

The German squatter pets a white horse that has wondered onto the property, which Boris Becker bought in the 1990s

Weeds are growing at the corners of Becker's holiday home tennis court and black marks also stain it

Two horses, who appear to roam freely around the property, are seen in the overgrown grass around the property

'No one knew what it was like, as they have these 10-year-old perfect pictures, where it had a nice English lawn.'

Squatter Berres has previously told reporters that he would leave if Spanish authorities asked him to, but there has apparently been no such request so far.

According to an old property listing, the 'very special tennis court' has the same surface as the one used in the Australian Open, and the net and supports come directly from Wimbledon.

However the court is now full of weeds and cracks, while the net is threadbare and being held up by metal wire tied to the fence.

While the brochure shows off a homely kitchen and living area, the recent pictures reveal barren and uninviting rooms cluttered with rubbish.

Becker bought the estate with his former wife Barbara in 1997 but has been trying to sell it for a decade, with it now thought to be off the market

Inside the rooms are now lived in by the squatters, who have bought along belongings including musical equipment

Becker's front gates are firmly padlocked with several stickers now covering them as well

A broken chair and huge lantern sit in one of the rooms which has dirt and bits of rubbish covering the orange floor

A spacious room is now largely empty apart from a grey blowup bed and some bedding screwed up in a pile

Squatter Berres said that when estate agents came to visit the property (pictured a spa room) they could not believe what they were seeing when they arrived to take pictures

A living room area is covered with rugs and brown marks are clearly seen on the white walls (a squatter is pictured sitting)

The finca is reportedly now in the hands of the Spanish administrator Convenia Profesional SLP after Becker’s company Goatbridge SL - which looked after the house- was declared bankrupt in July 2017.

Becker bought the estate with his former wife Barbara in 1997 but has been trying to sell it for a decade.

The legal battle over his bankruptcy took an unlikely turn when he claimed that his status as a minor attache for the Central African Republic gave him diplomatic immunity.

Becker said he had a passport at the embassy in Brussels but the CAR foreign minister and a presidential spokesman denied that such a document existed.

Last December he dropped the claim and an auction of his memorabilia which was held earlier this year raised nearly £700,000.

Dozens of weeds have popped up on the property and the orange paint has faded on the building around the swimming pool

An air mattress and a handful of a squatter's belongings are seen inside another of the large home's spacious rooms

Miscellaneous items including a BBQ and green netting are left to rot in an outbuilding at Becker's old holiday home

A huge lantern has smashed panes of glass and doesn't appear to fit together anymore, left, while in the sauna room, right, pieces of broken blue tiles cover the floor

Six mattresses are piled up inside an outhouse at the Becker mansion, with some ripped open along the edges showing the foam inside

Squatter Borres stands on the stained tennis court, which still has its nets despite not having been used properly for years

Piles of animal droppings are seen on a wooded walkway around the house, which looks out onto an overgrown garden

A woman poses on the windowsill inside Becker's bathroom which appears to have been well kept, with all the tiles still in place

Meanwhile, Michael Douglas has been trying to sell his sprawling 190-acre estate called S’Estaca, in Valldemossa, for the last five years, reducing it from €50 million (£42.2m) to €26 million (£22m).

In October 2018 the actor took his home off the market, but in June this year it was reported that the estate was back up for sale at the lower price of €26m (£22m) and he even released a video of the home.

The Hollywood star narrates over spectacular drone footage on his S’Estaca estate, reports Homes And Property.

But what the video didn’t show was the mansion's rubbish-strewn gardens and it’s thought that he and wife Catherine Zeta-Jones haven’t set foot on the property for years.

He bought the stunning 250-acre property in Majorca with his then wife Diandra Luker in 1989 for just $3.5 million (£2.9m). Even after they split up eleven years later, they have shared the property for six months each of the year.

Michael Douglas' home has also been left in a state of disrepair with the star having tried to sell it for five years, most recently dropping the price to €26 million (He is pictured with wife Catherine Zeta-Jones in Majorca in 2010)

Building materials such as bricks are seen on the Douglas' estate as well as a black bin lid sitting int the middle of the space

A fence around the home looks faded and slightly unstable as it bends back towards the Douglas holiday home

The estate has been left looking rather unkempt since it was placed on the market, with yellow grass covering much of the land and rubbish piled up in some spots.

The shutters on the windows are also firmly closed and neighbours on the white isle say they haven’t seen the residents for months and only on the odd occasion in the last decade.

Broken tiles and bricks have also been left on the grounds and old wood fires haven’t been cleared away, but despite this the home's exterior paint still appears to be in good condition.

In the past, the stunning Spanish retreat has played host to the likes of Tom Cruise, Nicole Kidman, Michelle Pfeiffer and Jack Nicholson.

The property boasts two cottages, five apartments, 10 bedrooms in total, 11 bathrooms, home theater, outdoor heated pool, library, games room, outdoor kitchen, wine cellar and vineyard.

Douglas bought the stunning 250-acre property in Majorca with his then wife Diandra Luker in 1989 for just $3.5 million

The property boasts two cottages, five apartments, 10 bedrooms in total, an outdoor heated pool, wine cellar and vineyard

Although some of the grounds aren't up to scratch, the views over the sea from the estate are stunning

It's thought that Douglas's wife Zeta-Jones, 49, prefers their other holiday homes they have dotted around the world, including an apartment in Manhattan, summer home in Bedford, New York, and a ranch in Bermuda.

The property supposedly holds only bad memories for Zeta-Jones because it's co-owned by Luker, 62, in a bizarre and awkward timeshare pact.

Douglas and Zeta-Jones have it from January to June, Luker from July to December, and they even change the fixtures, fittings and furniture. The Welsh beauty has almost never been seen at the house since they tied the knot in 2000.

The Hollywood power couple own over $100 million (£84.9m) in real estate all over the world, and the Welsh-born Oscar winner admits: 'Like people collect art, we collect homes. We love architecture. It's like a passion.'

In the past, the Spanish retreat (part of the gardens pictured) has played host to the likes of Tom Cruise, Nicole Kidman, Michelle Pfeiffer and Jack Nicholson