It may be party season but if you're feeling the burn out of constant festivities, a manic schedule, Christmas shopping and prepping for the big day, then you might just fancy staying in.

Well, the good news is, staying in is the new going out.

So say a polite no to all invitations, grab a blanket, throw on a hoodie, put on the fire and stock pile mince pies.

We're staying in until further notice.

1. The clothes

If you're like us then you'll LOVE changing out of your work clothes the second you walk in the door, swapping them for something a lot more comfortable.

You know the kind of thing; joggers, sweatshirts, hoodies, long sleeve tees, slippers, cashmere socks, oversized cardigans and leggings.

We'd rather be in loungewear than tottering around in skyscraper heels and a tiny mini dress.

L-R: Rainbow Draw Cord Hoodie (£12.50) and Tapered Jogging Bottoms (£10) at Matalan

L-R: Heat Holders Thermal Socks (£6) and Pom Pom Faux Fur Slipper Boots (£10) at Matalan

2. No crowds

Unless you invite a LOT of people over, your home will be free of crowds and by this time of the year, we're pretty much done with busy high streets and hectic seasonal shindigs.

So get away from all those people and just gather your most special people around you instead.

3. You'll save money

Going for a big night out = spending a lot of money.

And in the run up to Christmas you've no doubt spent even more money than usual on presents, cards and festive socialising. So give yourself, and your wallet, a break and stay in for a cheap and cheerful evening.

4. The food

No finger food, no salads; just delicious warming, wintry comfort food. Whether you opt for a takeaway or cook up a tasty lasagne, you can indulge in all your favourites and feast on the left overs, all from the cosy comfort of your sofa.

5. The conversation

So, first off you won't need to shout over loud music to make yourself heard or to hear what the person next to you is saying.

And secondly, you won't need to make small talk with people you've only just met. When you're at home you can have proper conversations with your family and friends, reconnecting at a manic time of the year.

6. The quality time

In a similar vein, when you hunker down as a gang you can really make the most of the time together.

Play games, talk, bake, watch a film; these are the moments memories are made of.

7. The self-care

If you happen to have the place to yourself then practice a bit of self-care.

That can mean different things to different people but you might want to light some candles, put on some relaxing music, take a long bubble bath, read a book, fill out a journal; whatever floats your boat.

It might be dancing around the kitchen to insanely loud rock music or doing a bit of cross-stitch. Or both. But staying in means you can do more of what makes you happy.

L-R: Plum & Warm Amber Destinations 3 Wick Candle (£8) and Bath and Body Gift Set (was £15, now £8) at Matalan

8. TV is really good...

Let's be honest, from box sets to celebrity talent shows to on-demand programmes, television is really, really good right now.

So, snuggle up and binge on your favourite shows old and new this season and revel in the chance to stay in!