Newly elected northern 'Blue Wall' Conservatives have been branded 'male, pale and stale' by social media users.

An image of the Tory MPs, who were seized control of former Labour heartlands in the north of England in the general election, was met with a furious backlash by voters.

The photograph, posted by Jake Berry, the MP for Rossendale and Darwen, was slammed for its 'utterly depressing' lack of diversity.

The Northern Powerhouse minister had uploaded the image on Twitter as new Tory MPs, elected in the traditional Labour voting areas, made their way to Westminster.

They have dubbed themselves the 'Blue Wall', a reference to Labour's 'red wall' which crumbled after Boris Johnson's election landslide.

Jake Berry, the MP for Rossendale and Darwen, was hit with a backlash from furious voters who slammed the image as 'male, pale and stale'

Mr Berry posted the image with the caption: 'Welcoming some of the new blue well of northern Conservative MPs to parliament.'

He added: 'Working together we'll hunt like a pack to get a brilliant deal for people across the Northern Powerhouse!'

But the tweet provoked an angry response over the lack of diversity as users pointed out how similar they all looked.

One said: 'Gosh - 'male, pale and stale' has a new poster, boys' another said: 'Totally and utterly depressing in 2019.'

The tweet provoked an angry response over the lack of diversity as users pointed out how similar they all looked

Emma Kennedy said: 'What an amazing vision of diversity' and another added: 'Are you not even slightly embarrassed by this? Seriously? No women, no people of colour. It's 2019 FFS,'

Others said it appeared the Tories are 'stuck in the stone age' and coined the hashtag '#whitemalewall' as another said the image looked like 'one Tory dude in a room full of mirrors.'

One joked: 'Blown away by the diverse mix of ethnicity, age and gender here.

'As a white, liberal northern girl I really feel old white upper class men will have my back thanks guys #bluewall.'

Labour MP Angela Rayner, who is tipped to replace Mr Corbyn as leader, said there's 'not much diversity going on here'.

Mr Berry, minister of state for the Northern Powerhouse was met with a furious backlash after posting the image on Twitter

She tweeted: 'Wow Jake not much diversity going on here, is it a new men only commons Tory social club? I know you Tories are way behind the times, 'Hunt like a pack'?

'Is it a new branch of the Bullingdon Club?'

Not pictured in the group was Dehenna Davison, the 26-year-old who became the first ever Tory elected as MP in Bishop Auckland, Country Durham. S

She shared her colleague’s picture, tweeting: ‘Gutted not to be with you last night but we have such a great bunch of northern MPs.

‘We will be a strong, united force fighting for the very best for the #NorthernPowerhouse.’

Others said it appeared the Tories are 'stuck in the stone age' and coined the hashtag '#whitemalewall'

In the north-east, north-west and Yorkshire and Humber 26 seats switched from Labour to Conservative.

Mr Berry said: 'Northern MPs are going to hunt like a pack in this new Parliament.

'The balance of power has shifted North and we're going to make sure towns and cities across the North see real, tangible benefits.'

He added: 'Millions of northerners put their faith in the Conservative Party last week and we will do everything we possibly can to repay people's confidence.

'We won't take you for granted and we won't let you down.'