She's been tipped as Caroline Flack's replacement on Love Island, with sources claiming she'll even host ITV's AfterSun spin-off series with her boyfriend.

But Laura Whitmore brushed aside the mounting speculation as she left a cheeky comment under her beau Iain Stirling's snap, posted to his Instagram on Wednesday.

Looking as sharp as ever, the dating show's voiceover, 31, posed in a crisp brown suit, with an amused Laura, 34, focusing her attention on the form-fitting nature of his attire by sharing emojis of a camel and a toe.

Flirty: Laura Whitmore brushed aside mounting speculation she could be the new Love Island host as she left a cheeky comment under her beau Iain Stirling's snap on Wednesday

The comedian - who has been dating the Irish beauty for nearly three years -appeared in great spirits as he uploaded the picture from his dressing room.

Iain joked about garnering attention from his fans in the image caption: 'A funny caption to lessen the absolute thirst of this post! EDIT: reading your comments, glad my penis is finally getting the attention it deserves.'

In the work department, Laura is the odds-on favourite to replace Caroline, 40, as the host of Love Island after she stepped down as the host of season six on Tuesday after her assault charge following a row with her boyfriend Lewis Burton.

On Wednesday, MailOnline revealed ITV is gearing up to announce the former E4 host will present the winter edition as bosses are 'keen to keep it in the family.'

Reports: The Irish beauty, 34, has been tipped as Caroline Flack's replacement on the show, and might even host ITV's AfterSun spin-off series with her boyfriend, 31, (pictured in August)

Moreover, ITV want the blonde beauty and her funny partner to co-present the spin-off show, Aftersun, on Sunday nights as they have a great dynamic, meaning he will get a bigger role.

No doubt Laura, who has a squeaky clean image, is a safe choice for the channel who won't want to take any risks with who they hire.

The pair met in 2016 but it wasn't until the following summer that things turned romantic between them.

Iain said last year during an appearance on the Chris Ramsey show: 'I’ve got someone who’s like me, but much, much better. And Laura’s got someone who’s like her, but much worse. I’ve done well out of it, but I’m dead happy because she’s lovely and stuff.'

Long-term: The comedian and the presenter have been dating for nearly three years (pictured last month)

Keeping her seat warm? Clean-cut Laura is good friends with Caroline, 40, and she already knows the crew well through boyfriend Iain (pictured together in January)

They will already have to pay for costly reshoots after Caroline had already filmed promotional material in South Africa for the show which will begin on January 12.

The talks come a year after Holly Willoughby, 38, was chosen to step in for embattled Ant McPartlin, 44, on I'm A Celebrity when he took a year off to battle his personal demons.

Holly is close friends with both Ant and Declan Donnelly, also 44, which meant there was a sense that she was keeping his seat warm, rather than taking over or causing any sort of rivalry.

On Tuesday, it was reported that Laura met with bosses in secret to discuss the possibility of the role , following Caroline's decision to quit.

Drama: The ITV star stepped down as the host of season six on Tuesday after her assault charge following a row with her boyfriend Lewis Burton (pictured in October)

She reportedly 'had a chat' with producers about hosting the upcoming debut winter series in January, with an insider claiming she was 'open' to the idea almost as soon as Caroline announced her departure.

Common assault according to the UK Sentencing Council Common assault (section 39, Criminal Justice Act 1988) A person is guilty of common assault if they either inflict violence on another person – however slight this might be – or make that person think they are about to be attacked. They do not have to be physically violent – for example, threatening words or a raised fist could lead the victim to believe they are going to be attacked – and that is enough for the crime to have been committed. Other acts like spitting at someone may also classed as common assault. The offence covers both intentional and reckless acts. For example, the offender may not have intended to cause the victim to think an attack was imminent but if they behaved in way that was likely to make the victim think they were about to be attacked, and they didn't care what effect that behaviour would have, the offender is guilty of the offence. If violence is used in a common assault, it is called a 'battery' and the perpetrator would be charged with 'assault by beating'. This does not however, mean that the victim was actually 'beaten up' or even hit or kicked – it could be that they were pushed, grabbed or spat at. The victim may not therefore have suffered any physical injury, and if any injury was caused, it would need to be quite minor to fall under common assault. The maximum sentence allowed by law for common assault is six months imprisonment, and cases can only be heard in the magistrates' court. If the assault is racially or religiously aggravated, the maximum sentence is two years imprisonment and cases can be heard in the Crown Court as well.

A source had told The Sun: 'It's an amazing job, every TV presenter in Britain wants it, so of course Laura was open to speaking to bosses about it.

'She's already had a chat about it – as soon as Caroline quit, they needed to sign someone up asap.

'Laura already knows the production crew from when she goes out to visit Iain on location, and bosses from her previous jobs on ITV.'

A spokesperson for Love Island told MailOnline: 'This is speculation and as such we won’t be commenting.'

Laura is no stranger to presenting a Love Island-esque reality show for ITV, as she presented Survival Of The Fittest in January 2018.

Figures released by Boylesports tipped the star as the bookies favourite to take over the job, with odds of 11/8.

Joining Laura as a frontrunner were Maya Jama, 24, and Emily Atack, 29, with odds on the stars emerging mere minutes after Caroline announced her exit.

Presenter Caroline broke her silence on Instagram and wrote: 'There have been a significant number of media reports and allegations in regard to my personal life.

'While matters were not as have been reported I am committed to co-operating with the appropriate authorities and I can't comment further on these matters until the legal process is over.

'However Love Island has been my world for the last five years, it's the best show on telly. In order not to detract attention from the upcoming series I feel the best thing I can do is stand down from Series 6.

'I want to wish the incredible team working on the show a fantastic series in Cape Town.'

Caroline continued: 'And on a really personal level. I have never experienced such kindness and love in my whole life.

'Not just from friends and family who are always the greatest but also from total strangers who send messages to me offering help and understanding... Please know that I see them and my boyfriend Lewis. I love you x.'

Near-miss? Fans had been sharing their views on who should take over from Caroline, with another option being Maya Jama (pictured in November)

Taking time out: Caroline broke her silence on Instagram over leaving her £1.2million a year job

An ITV spokesperson told MailOnline shortly after her post: 'ITV has a long standing relationship with Caroline and we understand and accept her decision.

'We will remain in contact with her over the coming months about future series of Love Island.'

The former X Factor host is expected to appear on bail at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court on Monday, December 23.