Kate Hudson stays warm in a thick fur coat while getting some shopping done in Aspen with her son Ryder.

The 40 year old actress was seen shopping with her 15 year old son, at one point holding a bag from the fashion label Rag & Bone.

She wasn't seen with her husband, Danny Fujikawa, who she's been married to since 2017.

Staying warm: Kate Hudson stays warm in a thick fur coat while getting some shopping done in Aspen with her son Ryder

Hudson was wearing a thick white fur coat which she wrapped tightly against her as she walked in the chilly Aspen elements with her son.

She had a pair of black sunglasses perched atop her head, as she walked through the streets of Aspen in comfy black and white checkered PJ pants.

She completed her look with a pair of black boots as she had some retail therapy with her oldest child.

Coat: Hudson was wearing a thick white fur coat which she wrapped tightly against her as she walked in the chilly Aspen elements with her son

Winter wear: She completed her look with a pair of black boots as she had some retail therapy with her oldest child

Her son Ryder, who she had with The Black Crowes frontman Chris Robinson, stepped out with a red Nike hoodie.

He also wore stone-washed blue jeans with pristine white sneakers and a white stocking hat to keep warm.

Hudson also took to Instagram on Saturday to share a fashion shot, captioned, 'Pacifier jewelry is trending...so are fanny packs. And what do you travel in #HappyHolidays.'

Ryder's look: Her son Ryder, who she had with The Black Crowes frontman Chris Robinson, stepped out with a red Nike hoodie

Insta: Hudson also took to Instagram on Saturday to share a fashion shot, captioned, 'Pacifier jewelry is trending...so are fanny packs. And what do you travel in #HappyHolidays'

Hudson hasn't appeared in a movie since 2017's Marshall, but she has two new movies in post-production.

She stars in the musical drama simply titled Music, with Maddie Ziegler, Tig Notaro and Leslie Odom Jr., which marks the writing and directing debut of singer Sia.

The actress also stars in Mona Lisa and the Blood Moon, the latest from indie director Ana Lily Amirpour (The Bad Batch), starring Ed Skrein and Craig Robinson.

Movie star: Hudson hasn't appeared in a movie since 2017's Marshall, but she has two new movies in post-production

New role: She stars in the musical drama simply titled Music, with Maddie Ziegler, Tig Notaro and Leslie Odom Jr., which marks the writing and directing debut of singer Sia

First date: Hudson met Danny Fujikawa when she was 23, through friends Sara and Erin Foster, but they didn't have their first date until December 2016

Child: The actress announced in April 2018 that she was expecting her first child with her husband

Kids: Her daughter Rani Rose Hudson Fujikawa was born in October 2018

Hudson met Danny Fujikawa when she was 23, through friends Sara and Erin Foster, but they didn't have their first date until December 2016.

The actress announced in April 2018 that she was expecting her first child with her husband.

Her daughter Rani Rose Hudson Fujikawa was born in October 2018.

Siblings outing: Later in the day, Kate headed out for more Christmas shopping as she visited Ralph Lauren with her brother Oliver