Boris Johnson provoked howls of anguish from Remainers today by announcing that the Brexit department will be abolished after Britain leaves the EU.

Opposition MPs accused the PM of trying to 'avoid scrutiny' by winding up the department - as there will no longer be a Commons committee dedicated to addressing the issue.

The Queen's Speech has put the UK firmly on track to be out of the bloc by the current January 31 deadline.

It will also be enshrined in law that the 'standstill' transition period must not be extended beyond the end of 2020.

And a government spokesman said this afternoon: 'The Department for Exiting the European Union will be wound up once the UK leaves the EU on 31 January.

'DExEU staff have been spoken to today. We are very grateful for all their work and we will help everyone to find new roles.'

Boris Johnson (pictured at Parliament today) has provoked howls of anguish from Remainers by announcing that the Brexit department will be abolished after Britain leaves the EU

SNP MP Joanna Cherry QC accused the Prime Minister of 'avoiding scrutiny'

SNP MP Joanna Cherry QC said: 'Another Johnson move to avoid scrutiny as this will mean no Brexit select committee. Welcome to the new order.'

Mr Johnson repeated his 'get Brexit done' mantra throughout the general election campaign and it resonated with voters as the Tories secured a massive 80-seat majority.

With 365 MPs and total control of the House of Commons, Mr Johnson will now be able to deliver on his promise.

Today he took another step towards making Brexit a reality as he published his EU (Withdrawal Agreement) Bill - the legislation needed to implement the PM's EU divorce deal.

Mr Johnson managed to get an old version of the so-called WAB initially approved by MPs earlier this year but a row over how much time should be spent discussing it derailed progress and ultimately forced the election.

The updated version of the WAB will now be re-introduced in the Commons with MPs due to vote on it for the first time tomorrow afternoon.

They will then break for Christmas before returning in January to finalise the passage of the legislation.

The passage of the WAB into law is now viewed as a formality after Mr Johnson's crushing election victory.

As well as formally taking the UK out of the EU by January 31 the WAB will also enshrine the terms of a Brexit transition period which will last until December 31.

The Queen set out the government's agenda in a scaled back ceremony in the House of Lords, without the usual pomp. She was accompanied by Prince Charles

The transition period is when the EU and the UK will try to thrash out and agree the terms of a future trading relationship.

Mr Johnson has ruled out an extension to the standstill period which means negotiators will face a tight timetable to get everything agreed.

Critics, including officials in Brussels, are deeply sceptical that it will be possible to strike a complex trade agreement in such a short amount of time.

The government is also going to bring forward a Fisheries Bill to provide the 'legal framework for the UK to operate as an independent coastal state after Brexit, no longer bound by the Common Fisheries Policy'.

This will allow the UK to 'take back control of our waters' after Britain splits from Brussels - another key pledge of the Leave campaign in 2016.