Boris Johnson has been warned his new points-based immigration system must be 'simple' as he vowed to bring EU freedom of movement to an end by 2021.

Mr Johnson today used the Queen's Speech to commit to bringing forward laws which will finally deliver on pledges he made during the 2016 Brexit referendum to allow Britain to take full control of its borders.

The Immigration and Social Security Co-ordination (EU Withdrawal) Bill will formally stop free movement and allow the government to replace existing border control measures with Australian-style arrangements.

Boris Johnson, pictured during the Queen's Speech today, has committed to introducing a points-based immigration system in 2021

It will mean that EU citizens who can currently come to the UK to live and work without having to pass any tests or meet any specific requirements will be subject to the same treatment as non-EU citizens.

This will 'enable the government to deliver a single global immigration system based on people's skills'.

The new points-based system will see people who want to move to the UK rated on their skills and on the contribution they could make to society.

There has already been a point-based arrangement in place for arrivals from outside the EU since 2010, but free movement rules within the bloc meant it could not be applies to those citizens.

How does the Australian immigration system work? The Australian immigration system has been designed to allow people into the country who the government believes will contribute to the economy and fill skills shortages. Skilled worker visas are available to people if they score enough points across a number of categories in a points-based assessment with 60 the magic number. One of the key categories is age, with all applicants having to be under 50. Younger applicants are automatically awarded 30 points while those approaching the age of 50 get zero, making it much harder for them to be accepted. Another key category is the ability to read and write English to a satisfactory level. Points are awarded to people who are particularly 'proficient' while even more are awarded to those deemed 'superior'. Then there are qualifications and skilled employment history. This is where people must get most of their points from. For example, five years of skilled work outside Australia is worth 10 points and a PHD qualification receives 20 points. The Migration Watch think-tank has warned there is little evidence the Australian-style scheme would address public concern over immigration levels. It said: 'This statement just ducks all the key issues. There is no mention whatsoever of reducing net migration, let alone how it might be achieved. 'The UK has had a points-based system for almost ten years and it hasn't worked.'

The government believes the new system will allow Britain to attract the 'brightest and best people from the whole world' to come and live and work in the UK after Brexit.

However, CBI policy director Matthew Fell warned that the system must be 'simple'.

'It's clear what's weighing on businesses minds is uncertainty about the new immigration system,' he said.

'Whatever the final shape, it needs to be simple from its first day of introduction.'

The legislation will represent a hammer blow to pro-EU campaigners who have urged the government to allow free movement to continue.

Mr Johnson's plan will see the end of free movement of EU citizens enshrined in UK law.

Meanwhile, the new laws will also include measures to guard against skill shortages in critical industries.

New visa schemes will be introduced so that roles can be quickly filled. This will include a 'fast-track' visa for qualified people from overseas who want to fill jobs in the NHS.

The health surcharge - the amount of money which has has to be paid by migrants to access the NHS - will also be increased to 'ensure it covers the full cost of use'.

The exact mechanics of the new points-based system will be set out in the New Year after the independent Migration Advisory Committee has published a report in January with its own recommendations.

The Australian immigration system has been designed to allow people into the country who the government believes will contribute to the economy and fill skills shortages.

Skilled worker visas are available to people if they score enough points across a number of categories in a points-based assessment with 60 the magic number.

One of the key categories is age, with all applicants having to be under 50.

Younger applicants are automatically awarded 30 points while those approaching the age of 50 get zero, making it much harder for them to be accepted.

Another key category is the ability to read and write English to a satisfactory level. Points are awarded to people who are particularly 'proficient' while even more are awarded to those deemed 'superior'.

Then there are qualifications and skilled employment history. This is where people must get most of their points from.

For example, five years of skilled work outside Australia is worth 10 points and a PHD qualification receives 20 points.

The Migration Watch think-tank has warned there is little evidence the Australian-style scheme would address public concern over immigration levels.

It said: 'This statement just ducks all the key issues. There is no mention whatsoever of reducing net migration, let alone how it might be achieved.

'The UK has had a points-based system for almost ten years and it hasn't worked.'