Prince Casimir Sayn-Wittgenstein-Sayn and Princess Alana of Germany have sent thank you cards to royal fans following their wedding.

The German prince, 41, and his American-born model girlfriend, 29, tied the knot at the 12th Century Schloss Sayn castle in Bendorf, Germany, in June.

The couple sent out cards to royal fans who had sent their congratulations, alongside a stunning unseen photo from the big day.

Prince Casimir Sayn-Wittgenstein-Sayn and Princess Alana of Germany have sent thank you cards to royal fans following their wedding. They shared this wedding photo with the note

The hand-written message read: 'Many thanks for your kind note', and was signed by the couple. This card was addressed to royal watcher Katharine, who shared a photo online

The hand-written message read: 'Many thanks for your kind note', and was signed by the couple.

It was accompanied by a formal shot of the couple posing in the grounds of the castle at their wedding.

Alana, who looked stunning in a long-sleeved gown, is seen holding her bouquet of white flowers as she turns towards her proud husband, who was dapper in a morning suit.

The German prince, 41, and his American-born model girlfriend, 29, tied the knot at the 12th Century Schloss Sayn castle in Bendorf, Germany , in June, pictured

The couple met in London four years ago and announced their engagement in June 2017. Pictured, the newlyweds share a kiss following the stunning royal wedding ceremony in June

Royal watcher Katherine, who runs the katsroyalletters Instagram account, shared a photo of the card online yesterday.

She wrote: 'Received this beautiful wedding reply today from Prince Casimir Sayn-Wittgenstein-Sayn and his wife Princess Alana. So happy about it.'

Royal fans were delighted with the post. One wrote: 'Congratulations I also have this reply I love it.' Another added: 'Beautiful photo.'

Alana looked stunning in a long-sleeved gown and a tiara as she arrived for the wedding

Alana was born on October 2, 1990 at Laguna Beach, California and is the daughter of Brady Bunte and Angela Lopez. Pictured, the American bride on her wedding day in June

Prince Casimir, an Austrian descendent of England's King James II, met Alana in London four years ago and announced their engagement in June 2017.

Prince Casimir divorced from his first wife Corinna zu Sayn-Wittgenstein in 2005. He had been dating Real Housewives of New York City star Tinsley Mortimer, 43, but their relationship fizzled out following an alleged string of furious public rows.

Alana, born in Laguna Beach, California, is the daughter of Brady Bunte and Angela Lopez and has reportedly modelled for Vogue.