Jasmine Stefanovic (née Yarbrough), 35, has all but confirmed her pregnancy to Today show host husband Karl Stefanovic, 45.

The shoe designer did little to hide her burgeoning bump while visiting a beach during a family holiday in New South Wales' Byron Bay this month.

In photos published by New Idea on Monday, Jasmine was simply glowing in a black one-piece, as her changing figure was evident in the form-fitting swimsuit fabric.

It's official! Pregnant Jasmine Yarbrough dressed her baby bump in a black swimsuit with husband Karl Stefanovic at the beach this month in Byron Bay (Pictured: Jasmine NOT pregnant in November 2016 )

Woman's Day had also claimed Jasmine was four-months pregnant, by saying Karl and Jasmine expected to welcome their bundle of joy in May, 2020.

In the recently-published photos, Jasmine was certainly in high spirits alongside her TV personality beau, Karl.

The happy couple splashed about in the shallows, and took their dog Chance The Yapper for a beach-side walk.

Going for minimal makeup during the casual outing, the Mara & Mine co-founder looked positively radiant with her wet blonde locks swept back off her face.

Speculation: Woman's Day had also claimed Jasmine was four-months pregnant, by saying Karl and Jasmine expected to welcome their bundle of joy in May, 2020

Bump watch: Speculation of a pregnancy has been rife since a 'friend' of Jasmine confirmed the couple were expecting a child together in an interview with The Daily Telegraph this month

The pair were joined by Karl's son River, 12, and daughter Ava, 13. It's unclear if Karl's son Jackson, 19, joined the pair on their summer holiday.

The outing comes after a 'friend' of Jasmine confirmed the couple's pregnancy to The Daily Telegraph this month, saying that 'Jas and Karl are over the moon' to be starting a family.

The couple, who are yet to make a formal pregnancy announcement themselves, are believed to be keeping the news under wraps.

Ouch! Karl was dumped as the Today show co-host in December 2018, while on his honeymoon with new wife Jasmine

Karl was dumped as the Today show co-host in December 2018, while on his honeymoon with new wife Jasmine.

At the time, his personal life was making headlines after his high-profile split with ex-wife Cassandra Thorburn, who he shares three children with.

He's now set to make his return to the Today show on January 6 and will host the program alongside Allison Langdon.

The new-look Today will feature the pair alongside entertainment presenter Brooke Boney, newsreader Tracy Vo, weatherman Tim Davies and sports reporter Alex Cullen.

Both Karl and his new co-host Allison assured viewers that the revamped show 'won't be boring', after the program's ratings plunged in 2019 while being hosted by all-female team, Deborah Knight and Georgie Gardner.