High street retailers had their worst month in over a year as British consumers reined in spending in the run-up to Christmas, new official figures have shown.

Retail sales fell 0.6 per cent between October and November, with the quantity of products bought falling in every category, except for food stores.

Annual growth slowed to just 1 per cent, the lowest since April 2018, the Office for National Statistics said.

Festive shopping: Britons reined in spending in November, according to the latest ONS data

'Today's UK retail sales figures show the affect that Brexit and the December election have had on consumer purse strings,' said Emma-Lou Montgomery at Fidelity International.

'In a climate of uncertainty spending has clearly taken a back seat.'

Sales of non-food items fell 1.1 per cent compared to November last year, suggesting that early Black Friday discounting by some retailers failed to tempt shoppers.

'The weakness of retail sales in November strongly suggests that consumers were waiting for the Black Friday sales and promotions,' said Howard Archer, chief economist at EY Item Club.

'However they do appear to have been more careful in their spending recently amid elevated uncertainties which were at a peak in November.'

Sales of non-food items fell 1.1 per cent compared to November last year, suggesting that early Black Friday discounting by some retailers failed to tempt shoppers

As the ONS and some economists have pointed out, November's figures were distorted by the fact that the bulk of Black Friday sales were not included, while they had been in previous statistics.

With the statistics covering the four-week period between 27 October and 23 November - and Black Friday falling out of it, on 29 November - only early promotions would be included in this year's numbers.

In spite of this, the situation on the High Street remains grim, with separate research showing that that Britons are staying away from stores.

The number of visitors to Britain's high streets over the past six weeks was 'significantly' down on last year, according to recent figures provided to The Mail on Sunday by data firm Springboard.

They show that the number of visitors to retail parks, shopping centres and high streets fell by 3.5 per cent in the six weeks from November 1 to the end of last week.

The number of visitors to Britain's high streets over the past six weeks was 'significantly' down on last year, according to separate, recent figures

Lisa Hooker at PwC says next month's retail sales figures will give a better picture of the state of the high street.

'With today's retail sales figures not capturing the late Black Friday, and the ONS' seasonal adjustments not covering key categories like fashion, where we know some of the biggest bargains were to be had, all eyes will be on next month's numbers, which will include both Black Friday and the critical run up to Christmas.

'Looking ahead to December, the election and other distractions heralded a slower start to the month, so all eyes will be on this weekend's 'Super Saturday' when we expect a last minute rush to the shops, and potentially some big bargains for patient consumers.'

However, the December CBI distributive trades survey, also out today, does little to inspire confidence of a sharp jump in the festive period sales.

The sales balance rose to an eight-month high, but was still only flat while a balance of 31 per cent of retailers said sales were poor for the time of year despite discounting in the run up to Black Friday and Cyber Monday - both of which fell within the survey period.