Advertisement

A hideaway recording studio that featured on the cover of Oasis' first single Supersonic has hit the market just in time for Christmas.

The 'magical riverside property' in Monmouth, South Wales could be the perfect gift for that special someone this festive season.

A string of rock gods have turned up at Monnow Valley Studio including The Stone Roses, Stereophonics and Pulp, with other artists such as Led Zeppelin and Black Sabbath also having recorded at the space.

The studio was started in 1975 - and was the spot where Oasis recorded their debut album Definitely Maybe.

The 1,200 sq ft live room also featured on the cover of the band's first single Supersonic and the studio is currently in a partnership with three-time Grammy award winner Andrew Scheps who has worked with artists such as Adele and Beyonce.

Owner Jo Riou is selling the studio and its attached guest house complete with all the equipment.

Other famous acts to have used the space include Tom Jones, Simple Minds, Manic Street Preachers, Joss Stone, The Charlatans, Levellers, Editors, Biffy Clyro, Robert Plant, Marti Pellow, Feeder, Busted, Laura Marling, Iggy Azalea, Idles and the Kaiser Chiefs.

The property (pictured above) has one of the biggest live rooms in Europe and is set in idyllic residential accommodation in Monmouth, Wales

A large pair of double doors (pictured above) leads to a room which is currently home to a piano, with the artist being able to play and look out at the stunning countryside

Oasis are pictured on the cover of Supersonic (above) which they recorded at the studio in December 1993. They released it in April 1994

The studio was started in 1975 - and was the spot where Oasis recorded their debut album Definitely Maybe which went on to be an iconic album

The drum kit (above) can be used by the artists who pay to use the space. The studio is currently in a partnership with three-time Grammy award winner Andrew Scheps

Make yourself at home! The recording studio (pictured above) features plush sofas as well as all the kit a budding musician would need

A gorgeous setting to make music! Musicians will be able to look out onto the stunning Welsh countryside when making their masterpieces

It is being sold by specialist recording studio real estate broker MJQ - with a price only revealed on application to would-be buyers.

Hamish Jackson, director of MJQ, said: 'Unless there is a buyer to take the studio as-is - with or without all its equipment of vintage royalty, by end of February - plans will be put in motion to redevelop this magical riverside property.'

The property sits in 2.5 acres of land in Monmouth, South Wales, and has a live room, control room and two kitchens.

The guest house has ten bedrooms, eight bathrooms, two living rooms, a dining room and two kitchens.

Mr Jackson added: 'The sale of the house includes the title, business, website and all related copyrighted material.'

The studio (pictured above) is set in the heart of the Welsh countryside and is an ideal spot for artists to hone their musical craft

Many artists usually opt for a residential option to preserve costs and to help them focus with their creative projects. The room above has everything a band would need to record their next hit album

The plans of the building show just how much space a band or recording artist would have to roam around the spacious studio

The mixing deck pictured above, could be used to create the next hit album by an up coming band or artist

While many joke than pianists go to the 'Florida Keys' for their holidays, you don't need to look any further than South Wales to get the full music studio experience

The studio currently has a partnership with American producer Andrew Scheps. He is a three time Grammy award winner and has worked with the likes of Justin Timberlake and U2.

He first worked at the studio in 2007 and previously said he 'fell in love' with the rooms and the property. When he decided to move to the UK he knew he wanted to work at Monnow Valley.

One of the best things about the studio is the fact that it is also able to host the artists with its residential accommodation, which has previously been known to boost creativity and productivity.

After Scheps arrived the packages were upgraded and the co-manager of the site Megan Manning was quoted as saying: 'Our clients love the home from home vibe at Monnow Valley.

'We have seven lovely bedrooms, a spacious lounge and dining room, a gym, plus 3 acres of gardens and the beautiful River Monnow (including a mile of game fishing) on our doorstep.'

The seven bedrooms include three doubles all with en suites, three twin roons, with one en suite and one single bedroom, allowing the site to accommodate up to 14 people.

Everything you need and more! The piano above could be the sound of the next best rock song. The studio is popular in the music industry

The studio's website states that 'a residential recording studio can provide a more homely, relaxed and private atmosphere than staying in a city hotel'. The bedroom above looks cosy and has all the amenities you would need

Leisure facilities at the studio include wireless broadband access for those looking to keep up with their emails, as well as a pool table and tennis tables for artists wanting to wind down.

It also includes fitness equipment such as a multi-gym with Smith machine for press and squats, cross-trainer, exercise bike, mini-trampoline, 100kg of free weights and dumbells.

But if you prefer to get out and about in the great outdoors then the site is also home to a three acre garden, for those wanting to keep their fitness up while looking out at a beautiful setting.

For those who would rather lose themselves in the virtual world, the site also includes an Nintendo Wii and X-Box 360 including large selection of games such as Rock Band, FIFA, Tiger Woods, supplied by EA Games.

The above doors featured on the single cover of Oasis' Supersonic track which was released in April 1994 and is one of the band's most iconic hits

Ready to rock! Artists are able to feel right at home in the studio which has all their basic needs and can ever get catering staff in