Leeds Rhinos great Rob Burrow has been diagnosed with motor neurone disease.

Burrow, 37, spent his entire career at Leeds and made 492 appearances and also won 15 caps for England and five for Great Britain.

He retired after winning his eighth Super League Grand Final in 2017 and is currently the club's reserve team head coach.

Burrow confirmed he has been diagnosed with MND, which has two to five year prognosis, in an emotional statement today.

It read: 'Regrettably, today I am confirming that I have been diagnosed with motor neurone disease.

'I would like to thank everyone for the support I have received already since being given my diagnosis.

'I know I have a big challenge in front of me but knowing that I have the love and support of so many people will give me inspiration and strength. I am very positive about the situation and intend to battle the condition as I still feel fit and well.'

Leeds Rhinos legend Rob Burrow has been diagnosed with motor neurone disease

The 37-year-old enjoyed a glittering career with the Rhinos - winning eight Super League titles

He added in a statement on the Leeds Rhinos' website: 'I would like to ask for privacy at this time so I can adjust to the battle I have ahead and so that I can spend time with those closest to me ahead of Christmas and New Year.'

A crowdfunding page set up to help Burrow's wife and three children in the months to come has already raised £45,000.

It reads: 'We need your help. Leeds Rhinos legend Rob Burrow has announced he has been diagnosed with motor neurone disease (MND).

'A fund will be set up to support Rob in his treatment and his family of a wife and three young children under 8 in the years ahead.'

Burrow currently acts as head coach of Leeds' reserve team following a two-year spell overseeing the Rhinos' academy.

He won the Challenge Cup in 2014 and 2015, as well as three World Club Challenges and three League Leaders Shields.

Burrow pictured in 2017 with wife Lindsey (left) and friends James and Charlotte Broughton

He posted this picture on December 19, 2017 with his wife and two daughters Macy and Maya

As well as their two young daughters, the Burrows also have a son called Jackson

Burrow's former club and international team-mate Kevin Sinfield has expressed his heartache at the news.

'This has been devastating news and heart breaking for Rob and his young family,' Sinfield - who is now Leeds' Director of Rugby said.

'The thoughts of everyone at Leeds Rhinos and, I am sure, throughout the Rugby League family is with Rob and his wife Lindsey. Throughout his career, Rob overcame the odds to become a legend of the game and I know he will tackle this challenge with the exact same positive determination.

'As a club, Rob will receive our full support and we will be working with him to chart the way forward.'

Kevin Sinfield (second right) has expressed his heartache at the news about his close friend

Sinfield said that Scotland rugby union great Doddie Weir has spoken to Burrow about MND

Sinfield also thanked Scotland rugby union great Doddie Weir for speaking to Burrow about the disease. Weir, who won 61 caps for his country, was diagnosed with the illness in June 2017. The same disease claimed the life of former Rangers defender Fernando Ricksen in September.

'I would like to thank Doddie Weir for taking time out recently to meet with Rob and talk about his own personal experiences with MND,' Sinfield continued.

'The news has been a massive shock and I know it will be similar for his many former team mates, friends and fans in the game. We will be developing ways we can best support Rob and his family in the future over the next few weeks and will be hoping to announce plans as soon as possible in the New Year.

'In the meantime, I would ask you all to keep Rob and his family in your thoughts over the Festive period.'

Leeds have announced that the testimonial for Jamie Jones-Buchanan against Bradford Bulls on January 12, 2020 at Headingley will now be a joint-fundraiser for both players.