Two-time Oscar nominee Laura Dern did some last-minute holiday shopping with her teenage daughter Jaya at the celeb-favorite Brentwood Country Mart in Los Angeles on Sunday.

Rocking all-black, the 52-year-old Big Little Lies star clutched a to-go drink from Farmshop alongside her curly-haired 15-year-old sporting a grey Chateau Marmont sweatshirt.

The mother-daughter bonding session came a day after Laura crashed Jaya's TikTok dance video to LA rapper-singer Doja Cat's new song Say So.

Family bonding: Two-time Oscar nominee Laura Dern did some last-minute holiday shopping with her daughter Jaya at the celeb-favorite Brentwood Country Mart in LA on Sunday

Twosome: Rocking all-black, the 52-year-old Big Little Lies star clutched a to-go drink from Farmshop alongside her curly-haired 15-year-old sporting a grey Chateau Marmont sweatshirt

Dern popped into frame in front of her privileged princess and showcased her 'cool mom' moves with a hilarious deadpan expression on her face.

More and more celebrities are popping up on the video-sharing social networking service, which was launched in 2017 by a Beijing company, ByteDance.

The longtime Lynch muse is preparing to spend Christmas with Jaya, her 18-year-old son Ellery Walker, and her Oscar-nominated parents Diane Ladd and Bruce Dern.

'Mom takeover!' The mother-daughter outing came a day after Laura crashed Jaya's TikTok dance video to LA rapper-singer Doja Cat's new song Say So

Shake it! Dern popped into frame in front of her privileged princess and showcased her 'cool mom' moves with a hilarious deadpan expression on her face

Next big thing? More and more celebrities are popping up on the video-sharing social networking service, which was launched in 2017 by a Beijing company, ByteDance

Happy holidays! The longtime Lynch muse is preparing to spend Christmas with Jaya (L), her 18-year-old son Ellery (M), and her Oscar-nominated parents Diane Ladd (2-R) and Bruce Dern (R, pictured November 28)

It's over: The 5ft10in blonde finalized her divorce from her children's father - three-time Grammy winner Ben Harper - in 2013 after seven years of marriage (pictured in 2012)

The 5ft10in blonde finalized her divorce from her children's father - three-time Grammy winner Ben Harper - in 2013 after seven years of marriage.

Last Monday, Laura finished recording her role as matriarch Sue Murphy in the fourth season of animated sitcom F Is for Family, which streams next year on Netflix.

Dern will next play 1868 New England mother-of-four Marmee March in Greta Gerwig's remake of Little Women, which hits US theaters December 25 and UK theaters December 26.

'I hope Netflix is proud of me!' Last Monday, Laura finished recording her role as matriarch Sue Murphy in the fourth season of animated sitcom F Is for Family streaming next year

93% on Rotten Tomatoes! Dern will next play 1868 New England mother-of-four Marmee March in Greta Gerwig's remake of Little Women, which hits US theaters December 25 and UK theaters December 26

For her role as attorney Nora Fanshaw in Marriage Story, the LA native is up for the best supporting actress in a motion picture trophy at 77th Golden Globe Awards, which air January 5 on NBC.

Laura faces heavy competition against Richard Jewell's Kathy Bates, The Report's Annette Bening, Hustlers star Jennifer Lopez, and Bombshell's Margot Robbie.

Dern is also nominated for two trophies - best supporting actress (Marriage Story) and best ensemble (Big Little Lies) - at the SAG Awards, which air January 19 on TNT/TBS.

Inspired by Laura Wasser: For her role as attorney Nora Fanshaw in Marriage Story, the LA native is up for the best supporting actress in a motion picture trophy at 77th Golden Globe Awards, which air January 5 on NBC