Australia is in danger of losing billions in Chinese investment and almost 650,000 jobs unless the nation keeps quiet about alleged humans rights abuses.

That was China's ambassador Cheng Jingye's veiled threat to Australia when he hosted a rare media briefing at the Chinese embassy in Canberra on Thursday.

Australia has been vocal in opposing China's mass detention of Uighurs and other Muslim minorities and of the detention of Australian-Chinese writer Yang Hengjun, which have sparked tensions between the trading partners.

Australia's biggest and most important trading partner was hugely responsible for the Federal Budget returning to surplus ahead of schedule, according to the Chinese ambassador.

China's ambassador Cheng Jingye (pictured) issued a chilling threat to Australia on Thursday

Mr Cheng issued a dire warning that Australia's economic success could be at risk if diplomatic relations between the partners continued to deteriorate.

Australia exported $124 billion in goods to China in the first 10 months of 2019.

The Chinese ambassador also claimed credit for Australia's jobs boost.

'Australian jobs depend on trade so if we take this theory, Chinese-Australian trade helped create some 640,000 jobs in this country,' he said.

'I want to emphasise the importance of pragmatic cooperation and exchange between the two countries and the benefits for both sides ... as I said earlier I would like to see this continue.'

'I think it is important ... to look at each other's development as an opportunity, rather than a threat.'

Australia has been critical of the detention of Australian-Chinese writer Yang Hengjun (pictured with his wife). He has been detained for 11 months but is yet to be formally charged

He described the relationship between China and Australia this year as mixed but expects it to be 'back to normal with the efforts of both sides'.

Mr Cheng used the press conference to refute claims that at least one million Uighurs are being detained in China, which he described as 'utterly fake news'.

He also gave an update on Chinese-born Australian writer Dr Yang, who has been detained in China for almost a year on suspicion of espionage.

Mr Cheng refuted Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne's recent claims that Dr Yang was detained in 'unacceptable' conditions, saying his health was 'in good condition'.

'We do not accept the allegations made by Australia's side,' Mr Cheng said.

He also confirmed Dr Yang is yet to be formally charged as Chinese authorities continue to investigate.

'In due time you will know the details,' Mr Cheng said.

Australia is at threat of losing billions in investment from China, its biggest trading partner

Ms Payne hasn't backed down from recent claims.

'The Australian government has made clear and consistent statements regarding our concerns over the treatment of Australian citizen Dr Yang Hengjun and human rights abuses in Xinjiang. Those statements continue to reflect our position,' she told The Australian after the ambassador's briefing.

Acting prime minister Michael McCormack said Australia had made strong representations to China about Dr Yang and still had concerns about his health.

'We don't have any details about what Dr Yang is accused of and, of course, we ask that he be released,' Mr McCormack said.

'He is an Australian citizen and we want him to be released and we will continue to pursue that.

Yang Hengjun's (pictured with wife) health was 'in good condition', the ambassador claimed

Federal opposition leader Anthony Albanese said Australia shouldn't confuse economic interests with human rights values.

'That's why we should be prepared to speak up on human rights, to do it in a way that is straightforward. We should never be frightened of doing that,' he told reporters in Sydney.

Mr Cheng acknowledged it could have been better year for relations with Australia, but he expects it to be 'back to normal with the efforts of both sides'.

Dr Yang was detained in January 2019 after flying into China from New York where he had been a visiting scholar at Columbia University

The former official in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Beijing went on to become a pro-democracy campaigner. He became an Australian citizen in 2002.