A government document has revealed Sydney's $3billion light rail project was supposed to travel its route twice as fast as it currently does.

The 2012 document titled Sydney's Light Rail Future touted the 'significant role' the new line would play in easing traffic congestion.

Premier Gladys Berejiklian was Transport Minister at the time and said the light rail would provide reliable services and drive economic development.

A government document from 2012 shows the NSW Government expected the new light rail line (pictured) opened last weekend to travel up to twice as fast as than it currently is

The document shows the government expected the trip between Circular Quay and Central Station to take 15 minutes and 20 minutes between Central Station and Randwick, currently it is taking almost 50 minutes to complete the trip

The document also touted how the new line would 'transform Sydney'.

'Light rail in the CBD will be the step-change needed to transform Sydney. It will unlock the streets,' the document read.

'(And) open the CBD’s capacity and be the catalyst for creating a liveable and globally competitive city.'

The document stated the three kilometre route between Circular Quay and Central Station would only take 15 minutes with a 97 per cent service reliability.

The 6km trip between Central Station and Randwick was expected to take 20 minutes and between Central Station to Nine Ways at Kingsford just 24 minutes.

But after launching last weekend the light rail was taking up to 15 minutes longer to travel its route than the buses it's expected to replace.

Engineer Greg Sutherland, a former New South Wales government light rail adviser, blamed the two-minute stops at every tram platform for the slow journey - fearing commuters would abandon the tram unless this was fixed.

'People would expect when they put a lot of taxpayers' money into something that it performs up to its maximum capacity,' he told Daily Mail Australia on Wednesday.

'At the moment, it's not. There are commissioning problems associated with the current format that need to be addressed.'

Premier Gladys Berejiklian (pictured) was Transport Minister at the time of the documents release and said the light rail would provide reliable services and drive economic development

The document (pictured) stated the three kilometre route between Circular Quay and Central Station would only take 15 minutes with a 97 per cent service reliability

NSW Transport Minister Andrew Constance insists the new light rail will become quicker as the network is 'bedded in'.

'We ran it around 45 to 48 minutes today (from Randwick to Circular Quay) and it'll only get better over the next six months,' he told reporters in Sydney.

'The aim here is to try and get it as close to 40 minutes as we can. It's a network that's got to be bedded in, a lot of busy intersections, a busy city, and that's what's being worked towards.'

A breakdown just hours into the opening saw services out of action for some 40 minutes after a tram stopped at a bend in the track just before 2pm, blocking lines in both directions.

The technical issue was caused by a power module and was compounded by someone pushing the emergency handle in a bid to get off the tram.

As the network took its first paying commuters on Monday morning, there were complaints that the trams took longer to get people into the city than buses.

NSW Transport Minister Andrew Constance (pictured) insisted the light rail was a stunning success and it will become quicker as the network is 'bedded in'

The network took its first passengers on Saturday and the opening weekend was not without hiccups with technical however by the following Monday commuter numbers dropped sharply

One commuter tweeted that his journey had taken twice as long but another commented it was a 'much nicer route'.

Opposition transport spokesman Chris Minns said it was quicker to catch the train into the city from Penrith than it was to catch the light rail into the city from Randwick.

'When $3 billion has been spent, which is double what was promised, for a significantly slower journey time, value has not been delivered for NSW taxpayers,' he said in a statement on Monday.

But Mr Constance said the government had never said the light rail was going to be the fastest mode of transport.

He said people wouldn't necessarily catch trams from one end to the other and it was about connecting precinct to precinct.

'It's part of an integrated transport option for people across the eastern suburbs and here in the heart of the CBD,' he said.

'It's going to offer people more options to get into various parts of the city from the east and that's a good thing'

The tram service carried 115,000 passengers well before close on its opening weekend, and had hosted about 15,000 commuters as of 2.30pm on Monday.