Sarah Palin has sold a half-built house in Arizona for $6million after her divorce from husband Todd.

The unfinished four-bedroom and five-bathroom property nestled in Scotsdale, McDowell Mountains, still lacks doors, windows, a roof, and much more.

Yet it was sold on by a company linked to the former Alaskan governor, which may have been set up to protect her privacy, for $5.2million more than was paid four years ago.

Sarah Palin has sold this half-built house in Scotsdale, McDowell Mountains, Arizona, for $6million. When finished, it will have four-bedrooms and five-bathrooms

Former Alaskan governor was able to make $5.2million on what she originally paid two years ago despite the property being uninhabitable

It was sold by Safari Investments LLC, which Palin confirmed she had links to. Wealthy individuals often set up these companies in order to obscure their identity

The 7,660sq-ft building site still requires substantial work, with an infinity pool, spa, and elevator all planned, before it can be turned into a luxurious family home.

Pictures from inside reveal the commanding views it has over the Arizona landscape, but also the scale of the work still required.

Two 7,900sq-ft properties have also been purchased in Scottsdale by Safari Investments LLC, including one with a swimming pool and basketball court, reports the Los Angeles Times.

A $1.7million five-bedroom home in Scottsdale was also brought by the company in May 2011.

A picture from inside the home reveals it still lacks windows, doors, a roof and any furnishings inside. It is one of several that Palin purchased in Scotsdale

Palin shot to fame in 2008 after becoming a 2008 presidential nominee. She is pictured speaking at a conference in Denver, Colorado, in July 2016

When Palin was challenged over the purchase by Fox News, she said: 'You know, many, many Alaskans purchase property in Arizona, Nevada and Texas.

'I think we do that because not only are we good investors, and it's a buyers market, but we like to thaw out once in a while.'

Famous and wealthy individuals set up companies when they make purchases to obscure their identity. Safari Investments LLC is registered in Delaware, meaning the owner does not have to publicly disclose their name.

It comes as Palin revealed her relationship Todd, husband of 31 years, had irretrievably broken down and they were filing for divorce.

Todd Palin filed for divorce from former Alaska governor and 2008 vice-presidential candidate Sarah Palin after 31 years of marriage. The couple are pictured in 2012

The couple had been going through counselling when Palin received a message from her husband's lawyer on June 19 saying that he would file for divorce. Proceedings were started three months later on her husband's birthday.

The filing cited an 'incompatibility of termperament between the parties such that they find it impossible to live together as husband and wife'.

Palin shot to fame after running as a presidential nominee in 2008. She was mayor of Wasilla in Alaska, before becoming the state's governor in 2006.