‘When someone shows you who they are, believe them,’ said the late, great Maya Angelou.

The Washington Post’s Congress reporter and CNN political analyst Rachael Bade certainly showed us who she was with her social media post celebrating President Trump’s impeachment yesterday.

‘Merry Impeachmas from the WAPO team!’ she exclaimed excitedly, alongside a beaming photo of herself partying in a Washington restaurant with a group of co-workers, most of whom are also CNN analysts.

After an immediate deluge of criticism for this startlingly partisan tweet, Bade deleted her tweet and explained it was ‘being misinterpreted by some as an endorsement of some kind..’

No sh*t, Sherlock.

Ill-judged: The Washington Post’s Congress reporter and CNN political analyst Rachael Bade (first left) certainly posted her colors to the mast by celebrating President Trump’s impeachment yesterday

Of course, all it did was confirm what has been self-evident since the day Trump won the 2016 Election: most of America’s mainstream hates him and is absolutely thrilled to see him impeached.

So, of course, are the Democrats, which was obvious when they exploded into raucous cheering in the House of Representatives as their leader Nancy Pelosi solemnly announced Trump’s fate - before she frantically silenced them like a crazed kindergarten teacher.

Pelosi herself was dressed in funereal black and bore a face of unrelenting gravity – with a slash of blood-red lipstick.

As she keeps reminding us, this impeachment brings her no pleasure whatsoever, and she is praying regularly for Donald at this difficult time.

Oh pur-lease…. spare me this pious, disingenuous nonsense.

Solemn: Nancy Pelosi delivered the news of President Trump's impeachment by bringing her gavel down and then admonishing the cheering masses of jubilant Democrats in the House of Representatives

Romping home in 2020: What will surely come to pass is that after being cleared by a Senate trial in 2020, Trump will be cleared of wrongdoing and will instantly go on one of the planet’s longest and most tormenting victory laps. (President Trump is pictured at his Michigan rally last night)

The truth is that she and her party have been plotting this since Trump set foot in the White House.

They couldn’t beat him at the ballot box in 2016 and fear they won’t be able to beat him at the ballot box in 2020.

So, they’ve concluded impeachment may be their only route to stop him.

Yet as I have repeatedly said, it is an act of extraordinary stupidity and self-harm.

And never was this more apparent than in the moment of its happening.

Yesterday was one of the most pointless, farcical days in the history of America’s Congress.

For hour after tortuous hour, the representatives of the world’s greatest superpower filed up to have their moment in the sun.

Or rather, in the glare of TV cameras.

They raged, they sighed, they rolled their eyes, they wiped away fake tears, they invoked every great American historical figure they could think of, they told their personal stories of family courage… and so they banged on, sucking the very life out of the holiday season with every indignant self-aggrandizing breath.

But what did any of it achieve?

The Democrats were always going to win this impeachment vote because they control the House.

All their members ranted against Trump and the Republicans - and all the Republicans ranted in support of him and against the Democrats.

Unlike Bill Clinton’s impeachment, there was no deviation from party ranks.

This was a 100% partisan pleasure-dome, though the only people deriving any actual pleasure from the unedifying spectacle were the politicians lapping up TV exposure to tens of millions of Americans like ravenous parched camels arriving at an oasis after weeks of traipsing across the Sahara Desert.

Meanwhile, their supposed victim was at a rally chuckling to his base: ‘This doesn’t feel like an impeachment to me, does it to you?’

No, frankly.

It feels like a pathetic joke at America’s expense.

A pantomime, in fact.

In Britain right now, it’s peak pantomime season.

Pantos are musical comedy theater shows featuring good guys, bad guys, cross-dressing dames, risqué jokes, and lots of jovial warning chants from the audience of ‘BEHIND YOU!’

They’re ridiculous laughable affairs, yet not quite as ridiculous or laughable as this impeachment process.

Let’s be absolutely clear: Trump’s not going to be convicted.

He’s going to be comfortably acquitted in any trial by a Republican-dominated Senate.

It would take 20 Republicans to flip to find him guilty, and there’s more chance of me being elected Pope than that happening.

And that’s assuming the impeachment even reaches the Senate.

Ms Pelosi has hinted she may not actually both sending it over…so foregone is the conclusion.

This is therefore a staggeringly futile exercise of unprecedented proportions.

Yet that hasn’t stopped all the usual half-witted bunch of obsessive Trump-loathing celebrities exploding with false dawn ecstasy as they proclaim it as the end of their nemesis.

From Bette Midler and Cher to John Legend and Amber Tamblyn, they raced to spew their glee all over Twitter.

To which my response is this: what are you clueless clowns all celebrating?

Are you just too dumb to see what’s actually happening here?

Do you not understand it all ends in a big loss for Trump-haters and a big win for Trump?

All the usual half-witted bunch of obsessive Trump-loathing celebrities exploded with false dawn ecstasy as they proclaim it as the end of their nemesis

This impeachment only plays out one way: if it goes to full Senate trial then sometime in early 2020, Trump will be cleared of wrongdoing and will instantly go on one of the planet’s longest and most tormenting victory laps.

As with the ill-fated Mueller Report into supposed Russia collusion that never happened, Trump will simply proclaim it as another fake news witch hunt.

His base will fire up even more than they already are, the Democrat base will fire down in abject dismay, and all the momentum for the 2020 Election will swing behind the President.

If the US economy continues to roar in the way it’s currently doing, with stock markets hitting record highs and unemployment numbers hitting record lows, then Trump will storm towards another win next November like an unstoppable King Kong.

Impeachment was intended by the Founding Fathers to be the ultimate check and balance on a president gone rogue.

I keep hearing this is the ‘worst’ impeachment in American history, because Trump’s behavior over the Ukraine affair is so overtly terrible.

But it’s really not.

His supposed ‘quid pro quo’ phone call to Ukraine’s new president was reckless and stupid, and he deserves to be criticized for it.

But it wasn’t a ‘high crime’.

Not his biggest fan: John Legend then joined in with the Trump-bashing and even managed to label the President of the United States 'evil'

Not least because the ‘crime’ – Trump withholding US military aid until Ukraine launched an investigation into alleged corruption involving the Bidens - never actually occurred.

There was no investigation launched, and the aid was soon handed over.

The bottom line is that for many Americans, this is a hard-to-understand scandal involving something that didn’t happen involving a leader they’ve never heard of in a country they know little about.

That’s why the latest polls show plunging support for impeachment.

That’s why the Democrats don’t have a cat in hell’s chance of it succeeding.

That’s why Nancy Pelosi will need to keep that black dress and mournful face for next November.

And that’s why Trump’s laughing all the way to re-election.

As he’ll be saying to himself today: Merry Impeachmas!