Jan Vertonghen has called for strong punishments to be handed out in the wake of the racial abuse aimed at Chelsea defender Antonio Rudiger.

The game between Spurs and Chelsea on Sunday was halted after Rudiger reported that home fans had been singing a racist chant during the second half.

It led to three warnings inside the stadium to warn supporters about their conduct and added that 'racist behaviour' was 'interfering with the game'.

Tottenham defender Jan Vertonghen has called for firm action to be taken against racial abuse

It follows a year in which there has been an increase in the number of prominent incidents of racial abuse directed towards players.

And now Vertonghen wants a 'statement' to be made: 'I don't know how you fix these idiots but this is an opportunity for the right people to act strong against them,' the defender said.

'Not just this country. In Belgium, in Holland, in the countries where I watch football, it's a problem everywhere.

'This is another opportunity to make a statement. My general feeling is that in England is that they act strong. Maybe they have to act even stronger.

'Outside the UK – I'm talking about UEFA, the FAs in different countries – they can do better.'

Spurs' meeting with Chelsea was held up after Antonio Rudiger reported hearing a racist chant

Chelsea went on to win Sunday's game 2-0 and while there is a fierce rivalry between the two sides, Vertonghen also took the chance to say sorry on behalf of his club.

He continued: 'I don't know if it is getting worse. It shouldn't be there in any way so... I just can't get my head around how people still do this.

'I've got no words for it. I apologise in the name of Spurs but like I said, these are minority idiots.

'We don't identify with these people.'

Willian, who scored both goals on Sunday, also condemned the behaviour: 'It's a shame, you know? We have to find the solution to stop this kind of thing,' the winger urged.

'I think the people that did this to Toni have to not be in every stadium. I think that they will have to find a solution to stop.'