Boris Johnson will try to make British national security bulletproof by bolstering powers for the secret services as he considers whether to make it illegal for people to secretly work for a foreign power.

The Prime Minister will also examine the case for updating the UK's treason laws and the Official Secrets Act.

The measures are part of a wider plan to make the UK a 'harder environment for adversaries to operate in'.

The moves represent Mr Johnson's attempt to deliver on commitments made following the Salisbury Novichok spy poisoning in March 2018 which the UK blamed on Russia - an accusation denied by the Kremlin.

The proposals were today set out in the Queen's Speech as the PM looks to provide the security services and law enforcement agencies with the tools they need to 'disrupt hostile state activity'.

The most eye-catching of the measures is the commitment to look at introducing a form of foreign agent registration which would force people to disclose if they are representing the interests of a foreign power.

That would effectively make it illegal to work in secret for another country while in the UK with jail terms the likely punishment for anyone who does not comply with registration.

Boris Johnson, pictured leaving Number 10 today, has pledged in the Queen's Speech to bolster the powers available to the security services

Boris Johnson's espionage crackdown at a glance Increase powers for UK security services and law enforcement to tackle evolving threats from hostile states Create new offences to criminalise harmful activity conducted on behalf of states Consider introducing a form of foreign agent registration - this would effectively make it illegal to secretly work for a foreign power Examine the case for updating the UK's treason laws and the Official Secrets Act

There are concerns that the UK's espionage laws are not up to date especially given the recent shift towards cyber warfare.

As a result, Mr Johnson wants to modernise existing offences to 'deal more effectively with the espionage threat' and create new offences 'to criminalise other harmful activity conducted by, and on behalf of states'.

A number of the UK's allies already have a form of foreign agent registration.

The US version requires anybody living there who is representing the interests of another country in a political or quasi-political capacity to disclose that they are doing so. It also forces them to reveal information about their finances.

Disclosing that information allows the government to keep an extensive record of all the people who are acting for another country.

There have been repeated calls for the government to update the UK's treason laws. The existing legislation dates all the back to 1351.

MPs on both sides of the chamber have called for the laws to be updated to make them fit for the 21st Century.

People can still be prosecuted for treason and if convicted they face life in prison but the 1351 Treason Act has not been used since the Second World War.

Sergei Skripal has not been seen or heard in public since he narrowly survived being poisoned with nerve agent in Salisbury alongside daughter Yulia (left) last year

The new espionage measures outlined by the government are in direct response to the 2018 Salisbury spy poisoning

MPs want the 'unworkable' current version of the act to be updated to include 'acts of betrayal' against the UK.

They argue that would better equip Britain to adequately punish people like British citizens who went to fight for the IS terror group.

The Law Commission has been asked by the government to review the Official Secrets Act to see if it needs to be changed or updated.

Travellers' caravans may be seized by police in law and order blitz to clamp down on families who occupy land and set up home without permission

By John Stevens for the Daily Mail

Police will be given the power to arrest travellers and seize their caravans if they set up illegal camps.

In a law and order blitz announced yesterday, it will become a criminal offence to occupy land and try to set up home without permission.

More than 1,000 traveller caravans are on unauthorised sites in England and Wales, according to official figures earlier this year.

The Police Powers and Protections Bill, which pledges a 'police covenant' to protect officers, was among a string of proposed legal changes in the Queen's Speech.

Police will be given the power to arrest travellers and seize their caravans if they set up illegal camps (Pictured: Travellers in a car park in Chingford, east London)

The Counter Terrorism (Sentencing and Release) Bill 'will ensure the most serious violent offenders, including terrorists, serve longer in custody' before they are freed on licence.

It comes less than a month after Usman Khan embarked on a killing spree armed with two knives and wearing a fake suicide vest while attending a prisoner rehabilitation programme near London Bridge.

Khan had been released from prison on licence in December 2018, halfway through a 16-year prison sentence after he was convicted of terror offences in February 2012.

ID documents will be needed to vote By Jack Doyle Laws to require voters to show identification documents at elections were included in the Queen's Speech. Currently, voters simply give their name at a polling station and get a ballot paper once it has been checked. The new rules would require voters to have a passport or a driving licence. They could also apply for a free 'local electoral identity document' from the council. The proposal is designed to combat 'personation' fraud where individuals pretend to be someone else to vote. Ministers are also set to tighten the rules on postal votes. Campaigners will be banned from handling them and a new power will limit the number of postal votes an individual can hand in. Voters in Northern Ireland already have to show proof of ID before they can vote. But critics say having to present an identity document could be a barrier to democracy and disenfranchise thousands of voters. The proposal forms part of the PM's constitutional reform agenda which is designed to 'safeguard' our 'constitution and democratic processes'. Official documents explaining the legislative programme state: 'We will protect the integrity of our democracy and elections, tackling electoral fraud through the introduction of voter ID and banning postal vote harvesting. A trial of voter identification this year was declared a success by the Cabinet Office. Around 800 people were turned away when the system was trialled during local and EU elections in ten areas. But Jess Garland, director of policy at the Electoral Reform Society said: 'Make no mistake – these plans will leave tens of thousands of legitimate voters voiceless. Ministers should focus on combating the real threats to our democracy, rather than suppressing voters' rights. The Government has no examples to justify this 'show your papers' policy. There is simply no evidence of widespread impersonation.'

He was part of an Al Qaeda-inspired terror group – linked to radical preacher Anjem Choudary – that plotted to bomb the London Stock Exchange and build a terrorist training camp on land in Pakistan-controlled Kashmir owned by his family.

In the year to the end of September, there were 44 convictions for terrorism offences, with 17 offenders being sent to jail for between four and ten years, the Government said.

Five were jailed for a decade or more and one was handed a life sentence.

Around 245 convicted terrorists were freed from jail between 2012 and 2019.

In a bid to give the public 'greater confidence' that sentences served by terrorists reflect the severity of their crimes and the 'risk they prevent', the Bill would see the 'worst terrorist offenders' serve a minimum of 14 years behind bars.

Early release would be scrapped for those offenders classed as dangerous and handed extended sentences – in which criminals have to spend longer on licence after leaving prison.

The plan includes a bid to strengthen supervision while a terrorist is on licence.

Terrorists assessed not to be a risk would have to serve two thirds of their sentence before the Parole Board could consider them for release. The legal changes include a Sentencing Bill to abolish the automatic halfway release for the most serious offenders who currently receive standard fixed-term sentences. These include offenders jailed for rape, manslaughter and grievous bodily harm.

A Serious Violence Bill will make public bodies duty bound to work together to 'identify and tackle early factors' that lead to crime and give police powers to easily stop and search 'habitual knife carriers'.

The Queen's Speech sees the return of Helen's Law – the Prisoners (Disclosure of Information about Victims Bill).

Named after 22-year-old Helen McCourt who was murdered in 1988 by Ian Simms, the Bill seeks to deny killers parole if they refuse to reveal where they hid their victim's body.

The Government will also bring back the Domestic Abuse Bill which fell as a result of Mr Johnson's unlawful suspension of Parliament earlier this year.

Boris Johnson lays out his 'blueprint for Britain' as he taunts a sour-faced Jeremy Corbyn over Labour's disastrous election in first fiery Commons clashes

By James Tapsfield, Political Editor for MailOnline, Jack Maidment, Deputy Political Editor for MailOnline and David Wilcock, Whitehall Correspondent

Boris Johnson today promised his Queen's Speech will bring a 'new golden age' for Britain - as Jeremy Corbyngriped that he had won the election through 'gimmicks'.

The PM was cheered to the rafters by the newly-enlarged ranks of Tory MPs as he took to his feet in the debate on the government's legislative programme.

'This is the moment to repay the trust of those who sent us here,' he said.

He said he had never doubted his opponent's 'convictions', but taunted that rather than admitting their hard-Left campaign had failed, Labour now wanted to 'dissolve the electorate'.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson speaking during a debate after the State Opening Of Parliament in the House of Commons today

Minutes earlier, Mr Corbyn claimed to have 'shifted the terrain' in politics - a week after leading Labour to its worst defeat since the 1930s.

In an excruciating rant, he dismissed the Queen's Speech as 'miserably weak' - and suggested the government was not listening to voters.

He raged that Mr Johnson - handed a majority of 80 by voters last week - was putting forward a 'pale imitation' of Labour's policies.

The Queen sits in the chamber ahead of the State Opening of Parliament, in the House of Lords, today, before giving the Queen's Speech with details of Boris Johnson's new legislative agenda

He received little cheering from either side of the House as he finished.

Mr Corbyn also plainly failed to see the funny side when a Tory MP gently ribbed that he was 'chained and regretful' like Old Marley in A Christmas Carol - sparking laughter in the chamber while the Labour leader sat stony faced.

The defiant speech came after the PM unveiled his 10-year plan to seize the benefits of Brexit.

The Queen's Speech laid out a blizzard of legislation - from an NHS funding bonanza to a new immigration system.

Police numbers will be bolstered by 20,000, stop and search powers beefed up to help tackle knife crime, and terrorists will lose rights to early release as ministers crack down on crime.

There are also moves to drive house-building, and make the market fairer - a key demand for younger voters - including offering 30 per cent discounts for people buying properties in the area where they grew up.

In a nod to the working-class voters in Leave-leaning seats whose support was critical to the defeat of Labour, Mr Johnson said the 'ambitious' package would 'spread opportunity to every corner of our United Kingdom'.

But taking to his feet in the Commons, Mr Corbyn said: 'There can no longer be any doubt that austerity has caused unnecessary suffering for millions of people all across this country.

Mr Corbyn claimed to have 'shifted the terrain' in politics - a week after leading Labour to its worst defeat since the 1930s

'The communities to whom the Prime Minister made his promises will now judge him on whether he keeps them.

'In this Queen's Speech the Government has tried to mimic some of the priorities and, interestingly, much of the language of Labour policy but without the substance - on austerity, on investment, on regional inequality and on the National Health Service, we can see how we forced the terrain to shift.'

At this point, one Tory MP shouted: 'It's all blue.'

Mr Corbyn went on: 'They say imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, even when it's a very pale imitation, but I fear those swayed by the Prime Minister's promises will be sorely disappointed.'