A British firm has made the world's first 'hyperscooter' — which has a top speed of 38 miles per hour and is steered by the strapped-in rider's limbs and body-weight.

The electric scooter comes in both three and four-wheeled varieties, can travel up to 28.5 miles on a single charge and can even follow the user as they walk.

The Dragonfly hyperscooter, which can be collapsed for storage, will first go on sale in the US in the summer of 2020.

In the UK, however, electric scooters remain illegal to ride in public, both on the road as well as on pavements and footpaths.

The firm developing the hyperscooter, D-FLY, is hopeful that British authorities may change regulations to allow such green mobility devices in the future.

Scroll down for video

A British firm has made the world's first 'hyperscooter' — which has a top speed of 38 miles per hour and is steered by the strapped-in rider's limbs and body-weight

The electric scooter comes in both three and four-wheeled varieties, can travel up to 28.5 miles on a single charge and can even follow the user as they walk

HYPERSCOOTER SPECS Motors: Dual, 1,800 Watts per wheel Max speed: 38 miles per hour Range: Up to 28.5 miles per charge Weight (3 wheel): 32 lbs Weight (4 wheel): 36 lbs On-board display: 4.5 inch high-def Connectivity: Bluetooth Navigation: GPS when paired Price: $5,000–6,000 ($3,816–4,580)

The hyperscooter is the brainchild of British inventor Jeremy Williman, 52, who was also the mind behind the Tensator — the retractable queue barriers used across the world in airports, event venues and nightclubs.

'The Dragonfly Hyperscooter is the urban-mobility equivalent to the supercar, and we’re very proud of that. The future’s arrived in style,' Mr Williman said.

'This is beyond everything else that is out there,' he told The Times.

We called it a hyperscooter because it is unfair to classify it against any other scooter — because it simply isn’t like any other scooter.'

'You are completely connected and locked into this vehicle and all your movements have a direct effect on the steering,' he added.

'Compare that to a scooter with this one-dimensional left and right, and there is no comparison.'

D-FLY, Mr Williman's company, has been granted a patent on this three-dimensional steering system — which they have dubbed 'Full-Tilt Technology'.

The designers — a team with backgrounds at Formula 1, Range Rover and assorted aerospace and technology firms — say that the hyperscooter acts to self-right and self-centre its deck to assist the rider in staying balanced on the machine.

The electric scooter comes in both three and four-wheeled varieties, can travel up to 28.5 miles on a single charge and can even follow the user as they walk

The hyperscooter will first go on sale in the US in the summer of 2020. In the UK, however, electric scooters remain illegal to ride in public, both on the road as well as on pavements

The hyperscooter is the brainchild of British inventor Jeremy Williman, 52, who was also the mind behind the Tensator — the retractable queue barriers used across the world

The deck and handle of the scooter are built with a frame of carbon fibre, aerospace-grade aluminium and reinforced wood.

It also sports puncture-resistant tyres, automobile-grade LED headlights, front and rear turning indicators and an anti-theft system.

The handle features a 4.5 inch display which enables users to pair their phones with the scooter, use GPS-based navigation software and even play music from a Bose stereo speaker system — which can also make noises to alert pedestrians.

'The Dragonfly Hyperscooter is the urban-mobility equivalent to the supercar, and we’re very proud of that. The future’s arrived in style,' Mr Williman said

D-FLY, Mr Williman's company, has been granted a patent on the hyperscooter's three-dimensional steering system — which they have dubbed 'Full-Tilt Technology'

The designers — a team with backgrounds at Formula 1, Range Rover and assorted aerospace and technology firms — say that the hyperscooter acts to self-right and self-centre its deck to assist the rider in staying balanced on the machine

The deck and handle of the scooter are built with a frame of carbon fibre, aerospace-grade aluminium and reinforced wood

Price tags for the hyperscooter begin at around $5,000 (£3,816) for the three-wheeled version and around $6,000 (£4,580) for the four-wheeler.

According to Mr Williman, the price is a necessary consequence of the quality of the product.

'The reality is if you want a high-end bicycle with carbon fibre, that can easily be $10,000, and it’s the same for a high-end electric bicycle.'

'Unfortunately, because of the relative numbers of production, because of the high end materials and the development, invariably this not a comparative cost with a piece of steel with low end engineering, it’s just the nature of the beast.'

The hyperscooter also sports puncture-resistant tyres, automobile-grade LED headlights, front and rear turning indicators and an anti-theft system

The handle features a 4.5 inch display which enables users to pair their phones with the scooter, use GPS-based navigation software and even play music from a Bose stereo speaker system — which can also make noises to alert pedestrians