Conor McGregor has blasted his bitter rival Khabib Nurmagomedov as a 'little scurrying rat' and warned him that he is 'coming' as he looks to avenge his loss.

McGregor lost to the Russian by a fourth-round submission when they fought in an explosive encounter at UFC 229 in Las Vegas on October 6, 2018.

That was the Irishman's last appearance in the Octagon to date, but he is preparing for his comeback against Donald Cerrone at UFC 246 on January 18.

Conor McGregor took to Instagram to blast Khabib Nurmagomedov as a 'little scurrying rat'

They fought in October 2018, with McGregor (right) losing by submission in the fourth round

And it appears that McGregor is already looking past that bout as he seeks a rematch with Nurmagomedov.

Taking to his Instagram, the 31-year-old posted on his story a message to the UFC lightweight champion.

Accompanied with a picture of himself, McGregor wrote: 'Little scurrying rat I'm coming'.

Just a few days, Nurmagomedov shot down of a possible rematch in 2020 with McGregor due to fact the The Notorious' hasn't been victorious in the sport since he defeated Eddie Alvarez in 2016 and as a result has dropped down the pecking order.

'I think Cerrone has lost seven or eight of his last 10 fights and the other one (McGregor) is going into his fourth year with no victories,' he said.

McGregor is targeting a rematch with his bitter rival next year after fighting Donald Cerrone

'It's like the minor leagues - it really doesn't matter who wins there.

'I'm surprised that Dana White is saying that if Conor beats Cerrone and I beat Tony Ferguson that there will be a rematch. I decide who I fight next.

'To fight me he has to cut weight first, down to 70kg, and then win 10 fights in a row like I did, then we'll think about a rematch.

'But for now he can fight second-rate fighters who lose seven out of 10 fights at 77kg, but to think he deserves the lightweight belt... well I'm champion so that won't happen, don't worry.'

The undefeated champion will defend his lightweight title against Tony Ferguson in April, and should both he and McGregor win their fights, UFC president Dana White has said the rematch will be next.