Katie Price’s on-off boyfriend has denied threatening a police officer following a row with paparazzi.

Kris Boyson said Price became emotional while being “hounded” by two photographers outside his home, and he went to ask them to delete their pictures.

Following the altercation, 31-year-old Boyson is accused of telling a police officer: “I am going to break your f****** jaw,” a court heard.

The incident unfolded outside the fitness expert’s home in Haven Close, Gravesend, Kent, while Price was in a vehicle nearby.

Kris Boyson said then partner Katie Price had called him for help when the alleged incident occurred (PA)

Boyson originally appeared at Medway Magistrates’ Court in Chatham on November 28 but the trial was adjourned until Thursday.

The personal trainer walked up to the court wearing a brown blazer with blue trousers and shoes with no socks.

He denies a charge of using threatening, abusive or insulting words or behaviour with intent to cause fear of or provoke unlawful violence, relating to an incident on October 11 last year.

Sitting in the witness box, Boyson told the court Price had just left his home when she phoned him.

He said: “I got a phone call from Katie crying her eyes out saying she needed some help and saying there was people outside and she wanted me to go out there.”

He said he found two photographers outside his home and told them: “It ain’t fair what you are doing.”

Boyson told the court: “I didn’t think it was right that they were hounding her.”

Pc Paul Blundell and a colleague later arrived at the scene, and the officer claims Boyson threatened him.

Boyson denied threatening the policeman (PA)

Defence solicitor Paul Macauley asked Boyson: “Did you shout ‘get that phone off him’?”

Boyson said: “No. I asked him to identify himself as a police officer.

“He said I am a police officer I can do what I want.

“I could clearly see that he was deleting the pictures as he was walking over to me.”

Mr Macauley asked Boyson if he ever threatened to break Pc Blundell’s jaw.

Boyson said: “I never said anything of the sort.

“I just asked him to get out of the road.”

Prosecutor Piers Restell suggested to Boyson that he was being the “aggressor” by stepping towards the officer and being threatening and abusive.

Boyson said: “I have never been threatening or abusive to anyone, let alone that guy there.”

The trial continues.