Mary Cathleen Haley, 32, sent this photo of herself with black eyes to a friend shortly before she was reported missing

A woman sent a photo of herself with black eyes to a friend and claimed she had been beaten by her estranged husband just days before going missing.

Mary Cathleen Haley, 32, was reported missing by family in West Virginia on Monday, having last made contact with friends on Friday morning to say she was 'doing fine'.

Krissy Musallam, a friend from a domestic-violence support group who is leading search efforts, said she became concerned for Haley after she received the picture later the same day.

She told Fox News that Haley claimed she had been 'beaten pretty bad' by husband William Scott a week earlier.

The following day multiple friends say they received a series of cryptic messages saying she 'fell in the lake' and 'tried to kill herself'.

Police have questioned Scott, who is said to have separated from Haley around August this year, but have not arrested him in this case.

Sheriff Scott Van Meter said Scott - a 25-year veteran of the police force - has been fully cooperating and claimed not to have seen his wife in months.

However, police did confirm that Scott was arrested on December 11 after turning himself over to officers following a claim of assault by Haley.

Haley was reported missing Monday, almost a week after friends she was staying with said she drove down to Florida to try and find work

Courtesy of WSAZ

Musallam said she encouraged Haley to go to a women's refuge after getting the photo of her with black eyes, before receiving another message complaining that officials were refusing to take her complaints seriously.

Her account then went silent until the following day, when someone claiming to be Steven Vaught - a close friend who had helped Haley after she left her husband - suddenly began sending messages to Musallam.

According to Musallam, the messages said that Haley 'is fine' and 'is unstable' and that she is 'in bed asleep'.

The person claiming to be Vaught also talked about Haley going swimming, and said she got her black eyes after she 'fell down the stairs acting crazy'.

Sheila Vaught - Steven's wife - confirmed that Haley had been staying with them for around a month before she left for Florida, while trying to divorce Scott.

She said that Scott had refused to sign the papers, and Haley feared for her life.

However, she said that Haley had left their house Tuesday - a full three days before messages purporting to be from her husband were sent - and the pair had not seen her since.

Police say they have questioned husband William Scott, a 25-year veteran of the force, saying he is cooperating and they have not arrested him in this case

Sheila confirmed that Haley had made several meetings scheduled in Florida on Friday, but missed one in the Pensacola area that evening.

A barrage of messages were then sent to several of Haley's friends on Saturday, claiming that she had died.

The posts included 'she’s at peace bro,' 'she is where she needs to be,' and 'she fell I didn’t kill her.'

Several male friends also told how they had received messages over the weekend asking to meet up.

On Monday, Haley's account sent out a final message reading 'washing hair and will call back later' before going offline. No messages have been sent or received since.

Police said they began investigating Monday after Haley was reported missing, before discovering that she was also wanted on a warrant for grand larceny, dated December 10.

Investigators say there have been several reported sightings of Haley, but nothing of hers has yet been found.

A search party is being organized for Mary Haley with help from Acadian Search and Rescue. Individuals that would like to help can contact Allyson Hottinger or Krissy Musallam