A stranger who replied to a parent's plea online for a kidney donor to save their gravely ill toddler's life has revealed she was inspired to help by her own children.

Surinder Sapal, 36, from Leeds, appeared alongside Joety Kandola, 34, from Newcastle, on This Morning, to discuss the reason she donated her kidney to save Joety's daughter Anaya, two.

Joety revealed that when Anaya desperately needed an emergency kidney transplant, doctors had warned that because they were an ethnic minority it was unlikely they'd ever find a match.

But after appealing on Facebook, Surinder spotted the mother's appeal and said she felt compelled to help the total strangers in order to save the little girl.

Appearing on This Morning, Joety revealed that her two-year-old daughter, who was born ­prematurely with a chronic disease that led to enlarged kidneys, was given months to live before the transplant.

She said: 'The doctors told us that statistically, there's not many donors that register from the back and Asian community. The average waiting list is two and a half years.

'[Doctors said] with our ethnicity, it could be longer and we could never get that call.'

Cuddling her daughter close, Joety revealed: 'She's been through such a rocky journey, time and time again, we've had to face challenges. She had a stroke at 6 months and they gave us 48 hours.'

Toddler Anaya was given just months to live, with doctors warning she may never find a kidney donor because of her ethnicity

Surinder Sapal, 36, from Leeds, appeared alongside Joety Kandola, 34, from Newcastle, on This Morning, to discuss donating her kidney to save Joety's daughter Anaya, 2, (pictured left, Joety and right, Surinder)

She added: 'She was going to die, she had no kidneys in her. it was literally a dialysis machine that was keeping her alive.'

And Joety was devastated to learn that she and her husband Amrik, 33, weren't matches for the little girl.

She said: 'We were tested but we weren't a match. She had so many transfusions that her tissue type changed, so we weren't a viable match anymore hence why we resorted to a Facebook plea. We were desperate.'

The couple put out an appeal on Facebook, Hope4Anaya, in a last ditch attempt to save their daughter's life, which stranger Surinder spotted online.

Joety felt she had no other option but to search for a donor online in order to save her daughter's life

She said: 'I remember it was last Christmas, I was trying to finish off a university assignment and I delved into the story.

'I saw her video plea for someone to give the gift of life, and I just wanted to investigate even more.'

But host Eamonn Holmes was quick to comment: 'Wanting to investigate and wanting to donate are two different things.

'We would all hear her story but...I have to hold my hand on my heart, I don't think i would have donated for someone you don't know.

WHAT IS INVOLVED IN A KIDNEY TRANSPLANT? The kidneys have several important functions in the body including filtering waste out of the bloodstream and eliminating excess water or toxins in the urine. People need a kidney transplant if they have severe kidney disease or if the organ is failing. To determine if someone is a match to donate a kidney, they have to have matching blood types with the receiver. If this isn't possible, doctors can lower the antibody levels in both people to see if the organ can still be a match. Tissue typing tests (HLA) are taken to also determine if the body will reject or accept the intended donor organ. Parents and siblings are 50 per cent likely to match with someone who needs a donation. The numbers drop for people outside of the family. But the most common way that people receive a kidney donation is from someone who has died. And many people struggle to find a match that is suitable for them. People can spend years on the transplant list and on dialysis while waiting for a donor match. Like most surgical procedures, a kidney transplant can cause short-term risks such as blood clots and infection. Long-term risks can be weight gain, high blood pressure and an increased risk of cancer.

'My own child maybe...but it's a massive thing to do for someone you don't know. You must be an amazing person.'

Surinder explained: 'I'm a mother myself, I think - I think I put myself in Joety and Amrik's shoes, and if I was in their shoes, I too would go outside and look for a match for my child.

'Why can't I be a stranger and help another mother make her child better?'

Joety said the women were complete strangers before the donation, saying: 'We didn't know who they were, we didn't know where they were from.'

Joety said they now felt like 'family', while Surinder said meeting Anaya was like 'giving birth to a new child'

And Surinder said her work in the health service as a radiographer allowed her to prepare for the operation, saying: 'Because I work in the health service, I was able to research what it was all about, what was involved.'

'People are born with one kidney, people live happily with one kidney. You can lead a healthy lifestyle.

'Obviously I'm from an ethnicity where high blood pressure and diabetes can be a common occurrence, but I have to make sure I live a healthy lifestyle.'

The little girl was overjoyed when Eamonn presented her with a Peppa Pig toy as a Christmas gift

And the little girl was overjoyed when Eamonn presented her with a Peppa Pig toy for Christmas.

The women went on to explain they were now 'like a family', with Joety saying: 'Surinder saved my daughter's life and we're forever grateful of her.'

Surinder said: 'Looking at Anaya makes me feel amazing, the first time I saw her it was like giving birth to a new child, those kind of emotions hit you.

'Seeing how well she's doing, it's really, really amazing.'