The Duchess of Sussex has been 'smart' to befriend high-powered celebrities because they have become her outspoken supporters, a royal expert has claimed.

Speaking to Vanity Fair, royal biographer Andrew Morton noted that Meghan, 38, invited stars like Oprah and George and Amal Clooney to her wedding to Prince Harry, 35, in May last year, despite not knowing them well.

However all three have since publicly defended the Duchess against criticism.

The Duchess of Sussex has been 'smart' to befriend high-powered celebrities because they have become her outspoken supporters, royal biographer Andrew Morton told Vanity Fair. Pictured, Meghan, 37, at the Festival of Remembrance at the Royal Albert Hall in November

Mr Morton said: 'Meghan is smart and she showed her purpose at her wedding by the people she invited.

'She invited people she didn't know well – Oprah, George and Amal Clooney the big Hollywood hitters.

'It was a clever move, because they are the ones who have stood up for her when she has been attacked.'

Mr Morton noted that Meghan, 38, invited stars like Oprah and George and Amal Clooney (pictured) to her wedding to Prince Harry, 35, in May last year, despite not knowing them well. The couple have spoken out in support of Meghan in the months since

George Clooney, 58, made headlines in February when he spoke out to defend Meghan, saying she was being 'pursued and vilified' by the press.

The actor and human rights lawyer Amal, 41, are understood to have grown close to Harry and Meghan.

The couples, who live just 30 minutes away from each other, reportedly enjoy lunches, dinners and play dates with their children.

Oprah, 65, has offered public words of support for Meghan on a number of occasions this year. Pictured, the media mogul arriving at the wedding of Harry and Meghan in May 2018

Meanwhile Oprah, 65, has offered public words of support for Meghan on a number of occasions this year.

Speaking to Entertainment Tonight in May, the media mogul said: 'To be able to stand up and say this is what I really want for my baby and my family and now I'm going to do it a different way when it's been done that way for a thousand years? I'm just so proud of her.

'Who is ready to walk out and stand before the world and put that face on, you know, a day after you've had a baby?'