She's set to hit TV screens in the New Year as a judge on new entertainment show The Masked Singer.

And ahead of her debut, Rita Ora showed off her quirky sense and joked her co-star Jonathan Ross didn't make for a good partner in crime because he kept on guessing the wrong names.

The Anywhere singer, 29, joined Jonathan on his chat show in a bizarre trouser suit costume which boasted a HUGE ruffle collar and glittering jewels.

Quirky: Rita Ora, 29, joined Jonathan on his chat show in a bizarre trouser suit costume which boasted a HUGE ruffle collar and glittering jewels

The singer was on the show alongside David Tennant, David Oyewolo, Rylan Clark-Neal, Sharon Osbourne, Bec Hill and Jamie Cullum.

But it was Rita who stood out with her outlandish and bold costume.

As well as the standout collar, it boasted rows of patterned jewels on the trousers and its sleeves.

To accompany her outfit, Rita added a pair of silver sandal heels, while her hair was styled in neat brades.

Wow: As well as the standout collar, it boasted rows of patterned jewels on the trousers and its sleeves

As well as Christmas, talk soon turned to Jonathan and Rita's new ITV show, which sees the panel attempting to guess the singers hidden beneath elaborate costumes.

However, despite forming a close bond during filming, Rita didn't think Jonathan's guessing skills were up to scratch.

She told the host: 'I have to admit, you [Jonathan] weren’t the best partner in crime. You kept giving me the most random names!'

Speaking of being 'stuck' with the TV star, 59, she added: 'I got stuck with you at the end of the table.

Below par? Rita joked her The Masked Singer co-star Jonathan Ross didn't make for a good partner in crime as he kept on guessing the wrong names

'The whole time, he was like, "I think it’s this person"… I’d say it out loud and he’d say, "It isn’t that person!"'

To which Jonathan quipped back: 'I didn’t make you say it.'

However, the presenter got his own back as he reveal what it was like sitting next to Rita, complaining that her hands smelt.

He explained: 'Throughout the whole show, Rita Ora was snacking on Pickled Onion Monster Munch!'

Awkward: She told the host: 'I have to admit, you [Jonathan] weren’t the best partner in crime. You kept giving me the most random names!'

Confession: She said, 'The whole time, he was like, "I think it’s this person"… I’d say it out loud and he’d say, "It isn’t that person!"'

Jonathan then revealed that he found a picture in his pocket that Rita had drawn of him and laughed: 'What’s horrible is you can see it’s meant to be me.

To which Rita joked: 'this wasn’t for the public!'

Jonathan added: 'I think there’s a genuine talent there, it’s being used for a force of evil.'

Meanwhile, Rylan Clark-Neal, who joined them on the sofa, credited Rita (who was an X Factor judge during his time on the show) for his success.

Complaint: However, the presenter got his own back as he reveal what it was like sitting next to Rita, complaining that her hands smelt

Co-stars: Rita sat alongside fellow celebrities, (L-R) Rylan Clark-Neal, Sharon Osbourne, David David Oyewolo and Jamie Cullum

He gushed: 'I love Rita to bits. If it wasn’t for Rita saying yes, I genuinely wouldn’t have got through.'

Speaking of putting him through the next round of the competition, Rita said: ‘I don’t know if singing is your thing, but you my friend are a star... You made it on your own, my darling!'

The pair then did an impromptu duet of All I Want For Christmas is You, much to the delight of the audience.

Putting him through: She told Rylan: 'I don’t know if singing is your thing, but you my friend are a star... You made it on your own, my darling!'

The scenes will be aired on Christmas Eve at 9pm on ITV.

Rita is currently sunning herself while on a festive break to St.Barts with her family -including mother Vera, father Besnik, sister Elena and brother Don, 22.

She's set for a busy 2020 when The Masked Singer airs January 4. As well as Jonathan, Davina McCall and Ken Jeong also judge.