She is gearing up to welcome her first child with husband Hugo Taylor.

And Millie Mackintosh declared her 'baby girl is getting big' as she displayed her bump in a black and white underwear snap posted to her Instagram story on Thursday.

The former Made In Chelsea star, 30, revealed her unborn daughter is now the size of a mango as she kept her followers updated on her pregnancy journey.

Radiant: Millie Mackintosh, 30, looked nothing short of sensational as she displayed her growing baby bump in a black and white underwear snap

Millie, who is due in May 2020, shielded her face with her phone in the stunning snap where she donned a sports bra and black shorts.

The mother-to-be posted a shot of a mango for Week 19 of her pregnancy from an app which told her the baby is roughly 300g in weight and 25.6cm in length.

Alongside the snap, she wrote: 'Baby girl is getting big!'

It is an exciting time for Millie and Hugo, 33, who are yet to reveal what names they are considering for the tot.

Growing: Millie also revealed her baby is now roughly the size of a mango during her 19th week of pregnancy

While she is looking forward to become a mother, Millie recently admitted she has been suffering with 'severe anxiety' during her pregnancy in an emotional post.

Alongside a throwback snap from when she was 13 weeks, the TV star explained: 'My pregnancy journey so far...... I’m not going to lie it’s been a bit of an emotional roller coaster.

'Bursting into tears for no apparent reason has become a weekly occurrence (sorry Hugo!) coupled with nausea, vomiting (not just in the morning - the evening sickness was worse for me).

'Heartburn, breakouts, headaches, mood swings, bloating, insomnia, seriously sensitive boobs, tiredness, cravings, sciatica and a constant metallic taste in my mouth which makes everything taste disgusting!'

First-time parents: Millie is expecting her baby, a girl due in May 2020, with her husband and fellow former Made In Chelsea star Hugo Taylor, 33

The media personality went on to explain how gestation has had a challenging effect on her mental health, and she has been combating her negative thoughts with meditation.

She elaborated: 'Trying to keep on top of my mental health is proving a little tricker than usual. I’m still practicing mindfulness and daily meditation (as I normally would) but have had moments of severe anxiety on multiple occasions.'

Millie also detailed her fears about her unborn baby's health, childbirth and stepping into the role of a new mother.

She wrote: 'I have found over the last few month that I have unexplainable fear which constantly switches from "something is wrong with the baby" to "how I will cope when the baby arrives" and don’t get me started on the "BIRTH"!'

Candid: The socialite revealed her journey to motherhood has been 'an emotional rollercoaster' as she discussed her struggles with her health, both mentally and physically

Reality star Millie ended her post by asking fellow mothers about how to minimize her worries.

She shared: 'I’m sure all new mums go through this and I am no different but would be great to hear from any of you who have been through similar things or have any suggestions on how to lessen these worries.

'Recommendations for good books & podcast always welcome (photo taken at 13 weeks) #happyhumpday #18weeks #babygirl.' [sic]

Millie told of her excitement at becoming a first time mother during an interview with Hello! magazine earlier this year.

'Recommendations are welcome': Millie said she has been experiencing 'unexplainable fear' about childbirth and becoming a parent as she bravely sought advice from new mothers

She shared: 'I'm so excited it's a girl. I would've been delighted with either, but when I found out we were having a girl, I suddenly realised this is what I really wanted.'

Millie and Hugo, 33, tied the knot in June 2018 at his uncle's country estate Whithurst Park, in West Sussex, one year after he proposed during a holiday to the Greek island of Mykonos.

The couple briefly dated during their Made In Chelsea days back in 2011 and reunited in May 2016 shortly after Millie's split from her first husband, rapper Professor Green, 35.

Millie was married to the musician, real name Stephen Manderson, for two-and-a-half years before they announced their split in February 2016.