Advertisement

Gruesome photos show crowds of women and children watching on as a buffalo is slaughtered in the name of a goddess during a Hindu festival.

More than a thousand people watched the ritual killing of 16 animals to appease Hindu goddess Durga in Rani Village in Guwahati, India, in October.

Images show a buffalo being tied up and wedged into a rudimentary scaffold to face its fate before it is decapitated by a man wielding a razor-sharp Bengali sword.

A villager swings his Ram-dao, a special curved sword, as he beheads a buffalo as part of the Hindu festival Durga Puja in Guwahati, India

The creature tries to resist and escape as it is placed in the stocks ahead of the slaughter in front of the large crowds

Durga triumphed in her epic battle of good versus evil and is celebrated every year with thousands of animal sacrifices - supposedly to show the deity due reverence

Attendees can also be seen rushing forward to put their fingers into the blood of the slain creatures.

Photojournalist David Talukdar's photos capture devotees and priests preparing a buffalo for immolation at the Buri Goshani Durga.

After the animal is blessed, it is rammed into a stock and held in place with ropes and poles. It is then swiftly beheaded with a curved sword called a Ram-dao, specifically designed for the task.

Goats and chickens are also involved in the ritual slaughter, but buffaloes form the centrepiece for the showcase.

The buffalo is tied up and wedged into a rudimentary scaffold to face its grisly fate when it is decapitated by a razor-sharp Bengali sword

Goats and chickens are also involved in the ritual slaughter, but buffaloes form the centrepiece for the showcase

Before the slaughter, the creature is blessed. Durga Puja, or the annual celebration of goddess Durga, is one of the most important Hindu festivals

Durga Puja, or the annual celebration of goddess Durga (depicted in a representation above), is one of the most important Hindu festivals and is typically celebrated in eastern states such as Bengal and Assam

After the decapitation takes place, spectators rush forth to dip keepsakes or their hands into the spilled blood, believing it will bring them good fortune.

Durga Puja, or the annual celebration of goddess Durga, is one of the most important Hindu festivals and is typically celebrated in eastern states such as Bengal and Assam.

It is a multiple-day celebration held in September and October and commemorates the victory of the goddess over a demon called Mahishasura.

As told by Hindu mythology, the demon was set out to wage war against the gods and it was up to Durga to slay him and protect earth.

Indian photojournalist David Talukdar's photos capture devotees and priests preparing a buffalo for immolation at the Buri Goshani Durga

The festival is a multiple-day celebration held in September and October and commemorates the victory of the goddess over a demon called Mahishasura

As told by Hindu mythology, the demon was set out to wage war against the gods and it was up to Durga to slay him and protect earth

More than 1,00 people, including many children, queued to watch the brutal slaughter of the 16 animals including goats and chickens

She triumphed in her epic battle of good versus evil and is celebrated every year with thousands of animal sacrifices.

Talukdar, 35, visited the Rani Village during their celebrations in October to witness the spectacle.

He was taken aback by the cruelty the animals suffered during the five-day festival.

He said: 'As a photojournalist, I travel a lot to different festivals, during my travels I heard about the animal sacrifice in that Rani village.

Talukdar captured the gruesome moment the buffalo was decapitated as crowds of people watch on during the festival

The buffalo's decapitated head is carried away during the gruesome festival which attracts crowds of well over a thousand

After the decapitation takes place, spectators rush forth to dip keepsakes or their hands into the spilled blood, believing it will bring them good fortune

'After speaking with the event organiser, I started taking pictures. It was so cruel. It was disturbing, and even a little embarrassing, to shoot this festival.

'But it is my job to show the world for what it is so I forced myself to relax, concentrate and capture what I could see.

'I saw sixteen animals killed during my time there and the crowd often swelled to over a thousand people. Some people celebrated each death, even the children, but there were others who couldn't face it who walked around the temple instead.

'People who have seen these photos are usually disturbed by the content.'