Lauren Goodger has stepped out for the first time since it emerged she was duped into promoting cyanide in a BBC sting.

The former TOWIE star, 33, smiled broadly in spite of the scandal as she delivered Christmas presents near her home in Essex on Thursday morning.

The television personality sported a hoodie bearing a cryptic 'more self love today, sis' slogan, which she teamed with black gym leggings, a Chanel quilted handbag and Balenciaga trainers.

Scroll down for video

What scandal? Lauren Goodger was seen for the first time on Thursday after being duped into promoting cyanide in a BBC sting

The reality star styled her brunette locks into a high ponytail as she added a slick of glamorous make-up to run her festive errands.

It comes after Lauren returned to plugging companies on Instagram just hours after her shocking cyanide drink scandal.

The former TOWIE star shared a video of her dog trainer with his company tagged, hours after it was revealed that she had been duped into promoting a poisonous drink containing hydrogen cyanide in a BBC sting.

Having recently adopted two new Cavalier King Charles pups, named Lady and Prince, Lauren has been struggling with toilet training yet on Wednesday she took to Instagram to tag K9 Dogs UK as she shirked the scandal.

Stepping out: The former TOWIE star, 33, appeared in good spirits despite the shocking scandal as she beamed to photographers in Essex

Cryptic: Lauren wore a cryptic 'more self love today sis' grey hoodie which she teamed with black gym leggings, a Chanel quilted handbag and Balenciaga trainers

Lauren tagged her pal Sam's company in the post for the dog trainers, where prices can tip up to £2,500 for a training course with the professionals.

Prior to the post, Lauren was secretly filmed during a meeting where she was asked to promote a fake diet drink named Cyanora on her Instagram.

In the BBC Three documentary Blindboy Undestroys the World, Lauren was asked to advertise the drink despite it not even being ready for production.

It was part of an investigation by the show into whether celebrities actually consume the products which they are paid to promote to their followers on social media.

Oh dear: It comes after Lauren returned to plugging companies on Instagram just hours after her shocking cyanide drink scandal (pictured during the BBC sting)

The drink was said to contain hydrogen cyanide, a deadly chemical used in both world wars, including at the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp in the 1940s.

Lauren's fellow The Only Way Is Essex star Mike Hassini, 25, and Love Island contestant Zara Holland, 24, were also filmed during the sting.

They were told among the ingredients of the new drink was hydrogen cyanide - which was used as chemical weapon by the French during the First World War.

The chemical was also used by Nazi Germany during the Second World War for disinfection and pest extermination on ships, before they used it in gas chambers.

Looking after him: Lauren tagged her pal Sam's company in the post for the dog trainers, where prices can tip up to £2,500 for a training course with the professionals

In the show, Lauren talks about her promoting another product called Skinny Coffee, which she previously claimed had helped her lose 12lbs in three weeks.

But her agent tells the seller: 'Half these posts you see that people do, they're not even trying them half the time.' She adds: 'I never tried Skinny Coffee.'

The seller then adds: 'Because we were a bit worried that maybe you'd want to, you'd need to try it, before you mention it - no, not bothered?'

Shocker: Prior to the post, Lauren was secretly filmed during a meeting where she was asked to promote a fake diet drink named Cyanora on her Instagram (pictured)

But Lauren replies: 'No. 'I've even had my own friends message me Laur, can you get me some of that Skinny Coffee, does it work?

'I'm like, do you not know this by now? And they're actually going and buying it, and I'm like, you know how this works.'

The reality star went on to film a video clip for the fake drink, which saw her struggling to pronounce the product name, calling it 'hydrone cydnide'.

Shocker: In the show, Lauren talks about her promoting another product called Skinny Coffee, which she previously claimed had helped her lose 12lbs in three weeks

Shock: Love Island contestant Zara Holland, 24, also agreed to promote the product without trying it, before her agent stepped in and said she wouldn't promote it without trying it first

A representative for Lauren told MailOnline: 'Lauren was asked to go to an audition by her old management to attend a meeting to appear in an advert for a new water.

'There was no mention of what the water contained before the meeting. The money on the table was quite a large sum which was offered.'

While Lauren told MailOnline: 'I was asked to read a script which I did to screen test me for the job. This script was given to me at that precise moment. No deals were signed and it was an audition.

How hydrogen cyanide was used to kill one million Jews in WWII Hydrogen cyanide is a deadly chemical which was used in both world wars. The compound was first employed as a chemical warfare agent by the French in the First World War, although no deaths were ever reported at the time. Metal canisters of Zyklon B, the brand name for hydrogen cyanide, pictured at the Auschwitz concentration camp It was then used in Germany before and during the Second World War for disinfection and pest extermination in ships, buildings and machinery. It was then utilised at the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp for sanitation and pest control until August 1941, when the Nazis tried experimenting with it as an agent for mass murder. They then began using it routinely, and it was supplied to the camp under the name Zyklon B from a Frankfurt-based firm called Degesch in sealed metal canisters because its volatility brought a risk of accidental poisoning. More than one million Jews were killed using Zyklon B, mostly at Auschwitz. This is around a sixth of the total number of Jews killed in the Holocaust. Hydrogen cyanide has also been used as an execution method on death row in the US, with the last case in 1999 being when Arizona used clouds of hydrogen cyanide to execute an inmate who took 18 minutes to die.

'As with any audition you people please and say what they want to hear. They asked me would I promote the drink without using it. In the heat of the moment I said yes and also said I hadn't tried skinny coffee in the hope of getting the job.

'Of course I would never promote anything that contains poison and proper checks would have been made before any promotion. I also have never said I lost two stone using skinny coffee. That is a complete lie and I'm unsure where that has come from.

'I would never promote anything on my Instagram that I don't feel is right for my followers and that I haven't used. The sit down meeting after the audition was filmed undercover without my knowledge.'

Her agent's company also told the programme: 'Our client no longer represents Ms Goodger.

'Our client would not endorse the promotion of products that contained harmful or suspect ingredients, or without knowing the contents. Our client was told the product was still in development.'

Mike Hassini, meanwhile, who has reinvented himself as fitness guru, was also caught in the sting as he overlooked the poisonous ingredient in his audition.

He said he was happy to promote the product without trying it, adding: 'That's absolutely fine. That's not a problem at all. From what I know, that all looks pretty natural.'

Zara Holland also agreed to promote the product without trying it, before her agent stepped in and said she wouldn't promote it without trying it first.

In a response to the programme, Zara said: 'Although I had read out the ingredients which included hydrogen cyanide, I did not immediately know what this was at the time.

'My agent did state that I would not promote a product without trying the product first, and we needed to be provided with more details.

'I would never deliberately mislead my followers or promote a product that was dangerous.'

Blindboy Undestroys the World is available on BBC Three, only on iPlayer.