Kanye West had creative changes afoot for his opera Mary - including an appearance from Akon and more kids in the cast - ahead of its second performance slated for Sunday at David Geffen Hall at New York City's Lincoln Center.

The 42-year-old star, in leading up to the second Mary performance, conducted a rehearsal at the nearby David H. Koch Theater, TMZ reported Sunday, and many children were seen preparing for the performance.

Akon was also spotted around the rehearsals, sources told the outlet, and is slated to direct the choir in West's opera.

Collaboration: Kanye West, 42, had creative changes afoot for his opera Mary - including an appearance from Akon, 46, and more kids in the cast - ahead of its second performance slated for Sunday at David Geffen Hall at New York City's Lincoln Center

The Grammy-winner will use children alongside adults (from his Sunday Service) in the choir for the opera's sophomore effort, according to the outlet.

Kids were seen at the Koch facility practicing singing and time cues for the opera, which he debuted earlier this month in Miami during the Art Basel. In that show, according to the outlet, the Jesus Is King artist worked with a scaled-down crew of a choir and extras.

Kanye earlier this month was seen in Miami for the first performance of Mary, sporting a bizarre and unique look for the production, wearing a baggy silver outfit with silver face paint covering his entire head.

West also wore matching silver socks and silver slides as he arrived at the event, which was held at Miami Marine Stadium on the final day of Art Basel.

Making his mark: The Grammy-winner was seen performing in Gotham on Sunday evening

Master of the stage: Akon was snapped in Spain in November for the MTV EMAs

Silver Ye: West was seen earlier this month in Miami for his new opera Mary, where he was spotted with a bizarre and unique look

Ye's cast: He was also seen with a number of other performers all decked out in silver from head to toe

Kanye's look: West was wearing a baggy silver one-piece that covered him from head to toe, with silver paint covering his face and hands

Mary is West's second opera, following his debut Nebuchadnezzar, which earned several rave reviews. West served as the narrator of Nebuchadnezzar, Sheck Wes, the titular Babylonian king Nebuchadnezzar, which featured musical performances by singer Peter Collins and Infinity’s Song.

West and Akon, the 46-year-old artist of hits such as Smack That and I Wanna Love You, were linked in the headlines last month after Akon was asked about Kanye's past sentiments he'd be interested in running for president in 2024.

Akon, who himself has pondered a campaign for the Oval Office, was asked on The Real about his friend's chances at a move into the political arena.

Final day: He also wore matching silver socks and silver slides as he arrived at the event, which was held at Miami Marine Stadium on Sunday afternoon at the final day of Art Basel

Opera: West took to Twitter on Thursday for a rare tweet where he promoted the opera, which was directed by Nicole Beecroft with music by the Sunday Service choir

Bible: The tweet also included a bible verse Luke 1:30-31, which read, 'And the angel said unto her, fear not, Mary: For thou hast found favour with God. And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shallt call his name Jesus'

'I need him to run,' Akon said. 'I want him to because it’s like this - Kanye’s not crazy. He’s just been awakened. My belief, because from a spiritual state, I just feel like he’s awake now. He understands his audience - but he’s definitely not crazy.'

Akon called West the 'most amazing marketer in the world' and thinks a Kanye presidential campaign would be 'great for the culture.'

He added: 'Now, whether or not you think he’s fit is another thing, that’s why you got me as another choice.'

New album: Back in October, West released his album Jesus is King, a Christian hip hop album that set a unique Billboard sales record

Barge: The Mary opera was performed on a large barge outside of the Miami Marine Stadium

West is also slated to return to the Big Apple next year when he joins televangelist Joel Osteen as part of his annual Night of Hope at Yankee Stadium in May 2, 2020.

Earlier this month, TMZ reported that West is teaming up with the Houston televangelist yet again, as part of his multi-city tour known as America's Night of Hope.

Back in October, West released his album Jesus is King, a Christian hip-hop album that set a unique Billboard sales record. It became the first album ever to simultaneously top the Billboard 200, Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums, Top Rap Albums, Top Christian Albums and Top Gospel Albums.

Kanye's cast: Kanye West takes a bow with his cast

Mary cast: The cast of Kanye West's Mary opera

On a boat: Kanye West's Mary cast performs on a boat

Praise: Kanye West is all smiles for his Mary opera

Hugs: Kanye West hugs the actress who plays Mary in his opera

Set: The cast of Kanye West's Mary opera