The six-year-old boy seriously injured after being hurled 110ft from the viewing platform of the Tate Modern has started to speak again in time for Christmas, his family has revealed.

In a post on a GoFundMe page, which has raised more than £143,500 for the boy's treatment and rehabilitation, his relatives said he was also regaining sensation in his limbs.

The French youngster, who cannot be named due to his age, was attacked by autistic teenager Jonty Bravery, 18, at the art gallery in London on August 4.

The victim, visiting the London museum with his French family, plunged 110ft on to a roof five floors below (pictured, the aftermath)

In a post on the boy's GoFundMe page last month, his family said their 'little knight' was progressing well with his rehabilitation

In the GoFundMe post, the family said: 'We have very good news to share with you. Our little knight begins to speak!

'He pronounces one syllable after another, not all of them, and most of the time we have to guess what he means but it's better and better. It's a wonderful progress!'

The family added the return of movement in his limbs has been a very painful experience for the child.

They said: 'He also begins to move his four limbs now. It is very difficult to see it concerning his left arm and hand, but it's really slowly beginning to move.

'However, as he begins to move, sensations come back and he feels more pain, above all during the night, which is very exhausting for everybody, but he is very courageous and we stay strong for him.'

Jonty Bravery (left and right in a court sketch) is accused of throwing the six-year-old boy from a 110ft balcony at the Tate Modern

The victim fell from the observation balcony of the Blavatnik Building at the art gallery

In the message to generous supporters, the family thanked everyone who has contributed to the fund and said it gave the boy the best chance at recovery.

The statement added: 'Your help makes it possible to offer our son the best rehabilitation, and for us to take care of our little boy everyday, to stay with him as long as he needs with the best doctors and therapists.

'Thank you also to keep us strong with all your kind messages. You can't imagine how much it is helpful.'

Bravery admitted a charge of attempted murder earlier in December at the Old Bailey in London and will be sentenced next February.