They're taking to the roads of Morocco for a festive edition of their Road Trip series.

But Gordon Ramsay wasn't impressed by Gino D'Acampo's attempts to spread some festive cheer as the Italian chef tried to give his pal a smooch in a hilarious clip from their Christmas Road Trip special with First Dates concierge Fred Sirieix.

In a first look at the show, set to air on Monday, Gino, 43, grabs some mistletoe and leans in to kiss a shocked Gordon, 53, while he awaits a fork of food, before the This Morning star jokes: 'I'm missing my wife!'

Smooch: Gordon Ramsay wasn't impressed by Gino D'Acampo's attempts to spread some festive cheer as the Italian chef tried kiss him in a clip from their Christmas Road Trip special

In the short video, the three stars sit down for a delicious meal in the North African sunshine, but ensure there is a festive twist by donning classic Christmas jumpers.

After Fred offers Gordon a drink called a Desert Crossing, they toast to the special season.

Having prepared a delicious tajine, acid-tongued restaurateur Gordon says: 'What comes to mind, what are your first impressions?'

An impressed Gino enthuses: 'It's super tender... it must because all of the spices and the slow cooking.'

Cheeky: In a first look at the show, set to air on Monday, Gino, 43, grabs some mistletoe and leans in to kiss a shocked Gordon, 53, while he awaits a fork of food

Pals: The dynamic duo are joined by their close friend First Dates concierge Fred Sirieix in the seasonal edition

In the spirit: In the short video, the three stars sit down for a delicious meal in the North African sunshine, but ensure there is a festive twist by donning classic Christmas jumpers

When the media personality asks Gordon for him to close his eyes and taste some cauliflower, he cheekily holds out mistletoe before leaning in for a playful peck.

The Ramsay's Kitchen Nightmares star is left recoiling in horror, with Gino quipping: 'I'm missing my wife!'

In a press release, Gordon gushed he's delighted to reunite with his two pals for the Christmas special.

The Hell's Kitchen star explained: 'It's amazing to be back - believe it or not I've actually missed those two!'

Playful: When the media personality asks Gordon for him to close his eyes and taste some cauliflower, he cheekily holds out mistletoe before leaning in for a peck

'We are lucky to have an incredible bond and share a great motto, "Work hard, play harder!" Although don’t get me wrong, it is like having two more young sons, what with Fred's moods and Gino's games!'

He also enthused he's excited to spend his first Christmas with his baby Oscar, who he welcomed with wife Tana in April.

The father-of-five - who also shares Megan, 21, twins Jack and Holly, 19, and Matilda, 18, with his partner of 23 years - said: 'This Christmas will be extra special with the arrival of Oscar. A baby’s first Christmas is pretty magical.

Funnyman: The Ramsay's Kitchen Nightmares star is left recoiling in horror, with Gino quipping: 'I'm missing my wife!'

Together again: In a press release, Gordon gushed he's delighted to reunite with his two pals for the Christmas special

'It’s always time for family and food, of course! All the family will be home, all the kids together and it will be a really amazing special time, I can’t wait!'

Gino, meanwhile, will be ringing in this new year in his home back in Sardinia with his wife of 16 years Jessica, and children Luciano, 18, Rocco, 15, and Mia, seven.

He shared: 'I will be in Sardinia in my home with my family because I think that is the best way to spend Christmas.

'No distraction, just being in Italy eating a lot of seafood. I will be baking sea bass in salt as usual, I do that every year, lots of clams and mussels and prawns. Smoked salmon, it’s very fish orientated, I have to say.

'I don’t do much Christmas prep as Italians don’t have the brussels or the veg or the turkey, so prep is very little as everything is cooked then and there.

'If we do marinated vegetables, roasted vegetables we do them a few days before. One thing I will do is drink a lot of Prosecco, that is what I usually do.'

Galvin manager Fred shared the group were planning to go Jerusalem, but opted for a 'random' trip to Morocco instead.

He added: 'It was my first time to Morocco. We were supposed to go to Jerusalem, Gino was supposed to buy the tickets but he got his cousin to buy them and because they were cheaper to Morocco, he bought tickets to go there.

'It's going to be special': Gordon has enthused he's excited to spend his first Christmas with his baby Oscar, who he welcomed with wife Tana in April (pictured earlier this month)

Sun-soaked: Gino, meanwhile, will be ringing in this new year in Sardinia with his wife of 16 years Jessica, and children Luciano, 18, Rocco, 15, and Mia, seven (pictured in February 2015)

'It was a bit random. It is a fascinating country with fascinating landscape, great gastronomy. It was really great to go on a tour and meet all these fascinating people. Morocco is a country like no other.

'It feels almost like a medieval country, especially when you go out in the desert and in the mountains and you meet people who still live in mud houses with almost nothing in their houses.

'They are very happy people and very willing to share everything that they have with you, and that was a real eye opener. It was like the spirit of Christmas that we were looking for, very humbling.'

ITV Christmas Special – Gordon, Gino & Fred: Christmas Road Trip will air on Monday at 9pm.