Working nine-to-five every week could raise your risk of developing high blood pressure, research suggests.

Scientists from Laval University in Quebec, Canada, analysed the health of 3,500 office workers.

Results showed working more than a typical 40-hour week raised the risk of high blood pressure by up to two-thirds.

Employees who worked at least 40 hours a week were 50 per cent more likely to have hypertension – the medical name for high blood pressure – than people who stuck to 35 hours or fewer.

While those who spent more than 49 hours in the office had a 70 per cent greater risk, according to the findings.

Experts said stress, not enough sleep and lack of exercise was to blame because they all put extra pressure stress on the body.

Working more than 35 hours a week in an office increased the risk of high blood pressure, a potentially-lethal condition, by up to two-thirds (stock)

People with high blood pressure have an increased risk of suffering from a stroke, heart attack or developing kidney disease.

The five-year study looked at white-collar employees at three insurance companies in Quebec. It involved three waves of testing - in years one, three and five.

To simulate in-clinic blood pressure readings, participants were given a wearable monitor to check their resting blood pressure three times each morning.

For the rest of the workday, the volunteers wore the blood pressure monitoring device.

It took readings every 15 minutes - collecting a minimum of 20 additional measures over one day.

Average resting readings at or above 140/90 mmHg, and average working readings at or above 135/85, were considered high.

Compared with colleagues who worked fewer than 35 hours a week, working more than 40 hours a week raised the risk of having masked hypertension.

This is when a person's blood pressure gives a normal reading during a clinical test, but is high for the rest of the day.

The study also found nine-to-five workers had a 66 greater risk of having sustained hypertension, when blood pressure is high throughout the day.

If left untreated, both forms of hypertension can lead to heart attacks and strokes.

Working between 41 and 48 hours each week came with a 54 per cent greater risk of masked hypertension and 42 per cent for sustained hypertension.

The findings accounted for other risk factors including job strain, age, sex, smoking status, education and body mass index (BMI).

Study lead author Dr Xavier Trudel said: 'Both masked and sustained high blood pressure are linked to higher cardiovascular disease risk.

'The observed associations accounted for job strain, a work stressor defined as a combination of high work demands and low decision-making authority.

'However, other related stressors might have an impact.

'Future research could examine whether family responsibilities - such as a worker's number of children, household duties and childcare role - might interact with work circumstances to explain high blood pressure.

'People should be aware that long work hours might affect their heart health, and if they're working long hours, they should ask their doctors about checking their blood pressure over time with a wearable monitor.'

The research team noted the study did not include any blue collar workers so the findings may not apply to labourers, or shift workers.

The findings were published in the journal Hypertension.