Olivia Newton-John, 71, has gushed over her former Grease co-star John Travolta, 65, more than 40 years after the film was released.

In a report by New Idea magazine on Monday, the Australian actress described her timeless connection to John, revealing: 'Every time I see him it's like no time has gone by.'

'We just have a connection, he's a wonderful human being,' the star enthused.

'It's like no time has gone by': Olivia Newton-John, 71, (pictured) has gushed over her Grease co-star John Travolta, 65, more than 40 years after the film was released

And the feeling is certainly mutual, with John Travolta also gushing over Olivia.

At the premiere of his film Fanatic last week, the actor heaped praise on Olivia for her strength amid her battle with stage four cancer.

'I'm very happy about Olivia,' he said. 'She looks incredible. She doesn't look any different than she did years ago. I'm proud of her.'

Gushing: 'I'm very happy about Olivia,' John (pictured) said recently. 'She looks incredible. She doesn't look any different than she did years ago. I'm proud of her.'

It comes as Olivia and John reunited to mark 41 years after the film was released, with them performing at a Meet n' Grease movie sing-a-long event in Florida.

Sporting their iconic Grease costumes for the first time since the film's release 41 years ago, Olivia took to the microphone for a special moment on stage with John.

The British-born, Australian-raised performer chose to sing a segment of the movie's ballad Hopelessly Devoted To You.

I got chills: Olivia (L) and John (R) reunited in their iconic Grease costumes for the first time since they appeared in their 1978 film earlier this month

At first appearing hesitant as she held the microphone to her mouth, she told the crowd: 'I have to preface this with I haven't sung in a year, so will you help me?'

Fans could be heard saying 'aww', before cheering and saying 'yes' to encourage the brave superstar.

Olivia revealed earlier this year that she was battling breast cancer for a third time, following diagnosis' in 1992 and 2013.

Then: The pair are pictured as Sandy and Danny in the 1978 film

In October, Olivia Newton-John spoke about her stage-four cancer diagnosis.

Appearing on UK chat show Lorraine in October, the 71-year-old was diagnosed with the disease in 2017 for a third time.

Quizzed about her health, Olivia said: 'I'm feeling great thank you, I was sick earlier in the year but I am doing better now.

'I feel a lot of love from people and a lot of prayers and they really help.'