Housing developer Persimmon have built a brand new 110-home estate precariously close to a collapsing riverbank on the site of an old colliery.

Andrea Lacey, who lives in Aberdare, took a picture of the new-build, on the Golwg Y Mynydd development in Mountain Ash, and reported it to Rhondda Cynon Taf Council on December 16.

The new houses are being built on the left bank of the River Cynon.

The photograph, taken from the opposite side of the river, shows the houses precariously close to the bank which is seemingly eroding with cracks visible in the stone walls.

The photograph, taken from the opposite side of the river, shows the houses precariously close to the bank which is seemingly eroding with cracks visible in the stone walls

RCT council said it was aware of the situation and was in discussions with the developers.

A spokesperson for RCT council said: 'The River Cynon has suffered from a deep scour, which will need remediation works.

'We can confirm that the existing private properties are located a distance away from the river wall and the council is in discussion with the land developers.

'Part of the area has been cordoned off and necessary works will be undertaken as soon as practically possible.'

Miss Lacey was not the first person to be alarmed by the proximity of the house to the bank of the River Cynon.

Persimmon said they have carried out an inspection of the site, and that no remedial work is required

Another local resident said he reported it to the council and Natural Resources Wales in July 2019 after a tree came down in the river.

He was concerned as the new house was near the collapsing bank.

A spokesman for Persimmon Homes East Wales said: 'We have been to the site this afternoon [Tuesday] and carried out an inspection.

'The bank has failed outside of our site as a result of work by others. The local authority is aware. We have no concerns about our nearest property and no remedial work is required.'

A spokesman added: 'The riverbank is owned by a third party and remedial work is the responsibility of the local authority.

'Our houses are set back from the bank and are in no danger of moving or being damaged.'

Natural Resources Wales told WalesOnline the river bank 'needed work' but the responsibility for maintaining the river bank at this location lay with the landowner.

Built on the old Cwm Cynon Colliery, the range of two, three and four bedroom homes in the 'beautiful rural location' typically go for £133,000

A spokesperson for Natural Resources Wales said: 'We do not have any flood risk assets near that development site in Mountain Ash, so it's the landowner's responsibility to maintain the riverbank.

'The developer will need to apply for a Flood Risk Activity Permit from us to ensure the work on the riverbank does not cause or increase flood risk, and to ensure it doesn't harm any fish or wildlife in the river. We have not received an application to date.'

The first residents moved into the first phase of the development, which was approved in 2017, in December last year.

Built on the old Cwm Cynon Colliery, the range of two, three and four bedroom homes in the 'beautiful rural location' typically go for £133,000.

A spokesman for Rhondda Cynon Taf Council said: 'The river wall identified is within the ownership of the local authority and in no way impacts upon the land or properties currently being developed by Permission Homes at Cwn Cynon.

'This part of the area has been cordoned off and necessary works will be undertaken as soon as practically possible in consultation with Natural Resources Wales.'