A couple went nuts after a squirrel jumped down their chimney and went on a 10-minute rampage around the living room and dining area.

Train inspector Mitch Ferguson, 29, and his father Mitch Sr, 53, freed the festive intruder from the fireplace in Canton, Ohio.

Mitch had his finger bitten as they painstakingly tried to capture it while Mitch Ferguson's wife Haylie, 26, hid in the bedroom.

The couple called Mitch's father to help snare the startled squirrel.

Mitch Ferguson, 29, and his father Mitch Sr, 53, chased a squirrel around their living room in Canton, Ohio. The little rodent jumped down Mitch and his wife Haylie's chimney

The men were put through their paces as they tried to rescue the squirrel from inside the fireplace. As they shuffled the electric fireplace backwards, the animal panicked and runs away

Footage shows the two men holding a blanket as they lean over the fireplace to try and catch the squirrel who appears to be doing Santa's work for him.

The two Mitches struggle to hide their amusement as they hold a blanket across the fireplace and open the doors.

Seconds later, Mr Sr shuffles the electric fireplace backwards and the grey-haired squirrel panics and sprints to the sofa.

The animal sprinted to the sofas before running along the top and leading the family into the kitchen

The little animal then leaps on to a curtain as the two family members run circles to try and predict its next move.

They chase it into the dining room and back to the living area while trying to trap it with a blanket.

Haylie said: 'I have no idea how it got in. I just heard something smack against the window of the fireplace.'

The couple were forced to wait until Mitch's father finished work as it 'wasn't a one person job'.

Mitch Ferguson (pictured left) with Haylie and Mitch. The couple waited for the 53-year-old father to finish work as getting rid of the squirrel 'wasn't a one person job', according to Haylie

Haylie was 'freaked out a bit' holding her newborn during the incident.

She said: 'It was crazy for five or ten minutes. I eventually locked myself in the bedroom. They finally caught the squirrel in the basement.

'But then it bit my husband's finger. Luckily he was wearing gloves. It was the biggest squirrel I'd ever seen.'

Mitch held the little rodent while their daughter gave it a stroke before letting it outside.

The Fergusons are happy to state that no squirrels were harmed in the making of this video.