The EU's highest court has ruled that an airline could be held liable if a passenger is burned by hot coffee even if turbulence or other flight-related factor didn't cause the spill.

The European Court of Justice said such injuries don't have to be linked to issues typically associated with air travel to provide grounds for a passenger to seek damages.

The advisory ruling came in an Austrian case seeking financial compensation for a girl who had her father's coffee spilled on her during a flight.

An airline could be held liable if a passenger is burned by hot coffee even if turbulence or other flight-related factor didn't cause the spill (stock photo)

The cup was placed on a fold-up tray during a flight from Palma de Mallorca and it spilled for unknown reasons.

It was not clear if the cup tipped due to a defect in the tray or because of the vibration of the aircraft.

The girl was scalded and her family wished to seek damages.

But the insolvent Austrian airline Niki, established by the late Formula One champion Niki Lauda, claimed that such mishaps needed to be linked to the flying of a plane for airlines to be held responsible.

The airline said it was not liable since the incident was not covered by the Montreal Convention, which governs compensation for the victims of air disasters, for delays and damage or loss of luggage.

The convention does not define the word 'accident'.

The advisory ruling came in an Austrian case seeking financial compensation for a girl who had her father's coffee spilled on her during a flight (stock photo)

The court said on Thursday that the ordinary meaning of 'accident' and the Montreal Convention's aim of balancing the interests of airlines and passengers meant damages should not be restricted to flight-related hazards.

The EU court said in a statement that 'it is not necessary for that accident to relate to a hazard typically associated with flight'.

An airline may be exonerated from its liability by proving that a passenger caused or contributed to the damage.

The outcome of the girl's claim will be decided by an Austrian court.