She was a famous Instagram model long before appearing on The Bachelor.

And on Thursday, Jessica Brody flaunted her incredible figure in a sponsored post for a fashion brand.

The 30-year-old could barely contain her cleavage in a plunging white top that left little to the imagination.

Strawberries and cream! Former Bachelor star Jessica Brody (pictured) posed in a cream top and floral pink pants on Instagram on Thursday

She teamed the top with a pair of pink floral pants and a straw hat for the perfect summer look.

'Ya girl just out here trying to get pollinated,' she captioned the image.

Last week, the brunette beauty added another inking to her appearance, this time by getting a facial tattoo.

She shared a selfie with the tattoo visible, which is of three small dots on her upper cheek, just beneath her eye.

Work of art! The tattooed Instagram model flaunted her new facial ink last week

Captioning the image, she wrote: 'Tats on my face, you say you’re ashamed but deep down I know you love it.'

The caption was a quote from the Summer Walker song Just Like Me.

Jessica appeared on the most recent season of The Bachelor as an intruder, and was previously romantically linked to The Project's Tommy Little.

Edgy: The 30-year-old Instagram model almost has her entire body covered in tattoos

The stunner is expected to return to screens early next year on the upcoming third season of Bachelor In Paradise.

In September, Jess publicly came out as bisexual during an Instagram Q&A with her fans.

When asked if she'd ever date another woman, the stunner said: 'If I met someone that I liked then that's someone I like... I have no preference with gender.'

Superstar! The stunner is expected to return to screens early next year on the upcoming third season of Bachelor In Paradise

She continued: 'Whoever I like I like. I've dated both men and women before.'

Jessica has recently been spotted spending time with Bachelor runner-up Abbie Chatfield, who will also appear on Bachelor In Paradise next year.

During a recent night out in Melbourne, the pair were spotted enjoying cocktails and champagne.