The partner of an inmate at a British category D 'open' prison has revealed how she frequently saw couples flouting rules to have sex during visits.

The woman, known as Millie, from Kent, shared on Instagram her account of seeing prisoners and their visiting partners getting intimate behind the backs of prison guards.

On the @bluebaglife Instagram page, which encourages people to share their stories of addiction, mental health problems and prison life, a woman called Millie, from Kent, revealed how couples would flout rules during prison visits to have sex

Posting on the page @bluebaglife, which encourages people to share their stories on mental health problems, addiction and prison life, Millie revealed she herself had been persuaded to become intimate in a toilet with her partner during a visit, who hadn't had sex for five years, only for the couple to be caught by guards.

Category D prisons, known as 'open' prisons, have minimal security and often let prisoners out on day release to work or receive education.

Millie recalls that the more relaxed atmosphere saw inmates and their visiting partners having sex within prison grounds

In the candid post, she wrote: 'Once Bill moved to D cat I went in to visit him. It was more laid back, prisoners could walk around and there was a garden with pub benches.'

She adds: 'It was so laid back that couples would sneakily have sex in the garden.'

Millie recounts her own 'terrifying' experience after guards banged on the door of the toilet she was in with her partner, saying: 'My heart was pounding, was I going to get arrested for being dragged into this?'

She says the visit was terminated, her partner was told off but no charges were made.

Millie finishes the post, saying: 'I've never been so ashamed in my whole life. I never even wanted sex, I was happy to wait.

'He called later that day and said he had been given a nicking for breaking rules, but it was later thrown out.'

The @bluebaglife account, which has 14,800 followers, was started by Lisa Selby, the girlfriend of recovering heroin addict Elliot Murawski.

Murawski served two years for supplying Class A drugs and was released earlier this year.

The couple, from Nottingham, document his ongoing battle with the addiction and encourage others to share their stories of battling dependency, prison life and mental health problems.