An obese father has managed to lose half his body weight after being shamed into shedding the pounds.

Blake Lewis, 33, from Church Gresley in Derbyshire, who tipped the scales at 23 stone, was left mortified when he was told he was too big to ride an Alton Towers ride with his young daughter.

He'd been visiting the Staffordshire theme park with his wife Laura, 35, and their children Sophie, five, and Toby, six, in May last year.

But as Blake went to climb aboard the Go Jetters Vroomster Zoom roundabout-style ride, in CBeebies Land, he found the the safety bar wouldn't fit over his belly. The father-of-two was then left red-faced as he was then ordered off the ride, for health and safety reasons, leaving his daughter in tears.

The embarrassment led to Blake starting a diet and, in just under 18 months, he lost an impressive ten stone - dropping from a 40 inch waist size to 32.

Before his weight loss, Blake Lewis, 33, from Church Gresley in Derbyshire, tipped the scales at 23 stone

Blake was motivated to lose the weight (pictured now) when he was asked off an amusement park ride for being too fat

Incredibly, Blake did not join any weight loss groups and managed to reach 12-and-a-half stone all by himself after healthy eating and regular exercise.

Blake said about his journey: 'I had always wanted to lose weight, ever since having children, but never had the will power.

'I'd take my children to the park and play with them and thought I could probably run better than a lot of slim people.

'I did hear about some of my overweight friends getting diagnosed with heart disease and type 2 diabetes, but it was not fitting in the ride that did it for me.

The father-of-two's daughter Sophie, five (pictured) got upset when she had to leave the ride with her father after the humiliating moment

'My daughter Sophie didn't understand why we couldn't go on the ride because we had sat down alright.

'I knew I was big but when I couldn't get the belt over my stomach I thought "This doesn't happen to people every day. Something isn't right."

'We were told to get off and Sophie was upset because she had to wait while her brother went on the ride with her mother. There were a few tears.

'There was no nastiness from anyone but from that point I said to myself "I can't let this happen again."

'I imagined other people in the queue were thinking "Oh dear" - I probably would have thought the same.

After Blake got off the ride, only his wife Laura and their son Toby, six (pictured) got to enjoy the ride

Blake said he wanted to lose weight before, but could not find the motivation to do so. Pictured before his weight loss on holiday

The healthy father explained he lost the weight on his own, by swapping snacks and fried food for veggies. Pictured: Blake showing off an old shirt to demonstrate how much weight he has lost

'That's when I thought enough was enough and I needed to do something about my size.'

Blake had piled on the pounds with his addiction to junk food and would often gorge on takeaways, burgers, fries or crisps.

But he reduced his food intake from up to five thousand to a thousand calories a day by cooking healthier meals and freezing them for the week.

Blake also started walking the one-and-a half mile journey to work and set up a homemade gym in his garage.

Blake (pictured with his wife Laura, 35, before the weight loss in 2011) - explains he used to be addicted to junk food

The slim father said he could not resist pies, burgers, fries, and crisps, but went cold turkey and now barely misses them

Blake and Sophie. Being a healthy father, the super slimmer said he had inspired others to do the same (pictured after the weight loss)

He added: 'I saw myself as addicted to junk food, mainly savoury things like pies, burgers, fries, and crisps.

'Now if I see a pork pie I'm not bothered, but before I thought "I've got to have it."

'I could devour three to five thousand calories a day, sometimes more. But now I've gone cold turkey I don't get the cravings anymore.

'It's all about will power, being disciplined and cutting out the rubbish.

'Some of my friends and family say I'm an inspiration and a few colleagues at work who want to lose weight ask for advice.

Before, Blake would snack constantly on savoury treats, which prevented him from enjoying activities with his daughter Sophie (left) but he said he put that being him and now feels better in his skin (right)

'I tell them to do what I did and Google healthy foods and recipes. They key is meal prepping.

'Every Sunday I'd prepare healthy meals and freeze them or put them in the fridge. When I'd come home hungry I'd have one instead of burger and chips.

'I did it completely by myself. I didn't go to Slimming World or Weight Watchers or anything like that.

'Stick at it hard for the first few weeks then you'll be encouraged when the pounds start coming off.

Blake said he feels healthier than ever. Every Sunday, he prepares healthy meals and freezes them or put them in the fridge

'I have a slim blend vanilla milkshake in the morning which replaces breakfast and lunch then lean meat with vegetables in the evening.

'I don't snack and I drink diet coke instead of a litre of full-fat stuff I used to.

'I stopped driving to work and started walking. I run a bit and set up a gym in the garage. My family and friends were very pleased for me.

'Some were concerned that the weight dropped off so quickly that I'd make myself poorly.

'In fact, I've never been healthier.'