If you've put off buying gifts until the last possible moment, don't fret. Luckily there's still time to shop for presents in time for Christmas Day.

Until Sunday December 22, Amazon is offering shoppers the opportunity to discover great gift ideas for less in their Last Minute Christmas Deals event. Better yet, if you're a Prime Member, the last day for one-day delivery isn't until Monday December 23.

Here are some gifts ideas you can grab real quick and chances are they'll arrive before Christmas - if you're quick!

Said to be better than a Dyson, the Shark Lift-Away Upright Vacuum Cleaner could be yours for just £200.07 (20 per cent off the listed retail price), as part of Amazon's Last Minute Christmas Deals event.

The Shark Lift-Away Vacuum Cleaner has claimed the number one bestselling spot in the Upright Vacuums category on Amazon and scored an average star rating of 4.7 out of 5 - which is impressive. The vacuum - which is the same model that cleaning guru, Mrs Hinch uses - has also gained rave reviews.

One Amazon customer wrote: 'I've gone through my fair share of Dysons and other brands, and I can safely say I'll never look back. This machine is 10/10 across the board.'

Buy now on Amazon

Give the gift of great TV shows this Christmas with the Fire TV Stick with 4K Ultra HD, which is now with 20 per cent off.

This streaming stick can turn any old TV into a smart one that can access and play all your favourite videos, movies and shows from Amazon Prime Video, Netflix, BBC, Disney Plus, YouTube, and more in brilliant 4K Ultra HD and Dolby Vision, HDR, and HDR10+.

The Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Ultra HD boasts an impressive average star rating of 4.7 out of 5 with over 15,500 reviews on Amazon. More than 80 per cent of reviewers were extremely happy with their purchase, rating the device five stars and describing the Fire TV Stick 4K is an excellent product for the price.

Buy now on Amazon

After the sell-out success of their Black Friday sales, Amazon has cut the price of the Apple Airpods with Charging Case (latest Model) from £159 to £125, reducing the buds by £34.

Apple AirPods are bud-style in-ear headphones that connect with your phone via Bluetooth. They offer up to five hours of listening time and are convenient, easy to use, lightweight, comfortable and - most importantly - the sound quality is good. The popular headphones are stored inside a small white chase that acts as a charger.

On Amazon, the Apple AirPods have received more than 100 reviews and have an impressive average star rating of 4.5 out of 5.

Buy now on Amazon

Now reduced to £17.53, the number one bestseller and go-to hair treatment for professional colourists is a must-have treatment for dry, brittle, bleached hair, and for anyone who frequently styles their tresses.

Don't just take our word for it. This at-home Hair Perfector treatment has earned cult-favourite status and overall reviews are exceptionally positive on Amazon, with over 1,000 five-star reviews and an average star rating of 4.2 out of 5.

One Amazon reviewer wrote: 'When I say that this product has revived my damaged, almost dead curls - it really did, even from the 1st use.'

Another reviewer added: 'My hair texture has completely changed. It's silky, shiny and feels so much stronger. This is from first use.'

Buy now on Amazon

The Olay Regenerist 3 Point Firming Anti-Ageing Cream Moisturiser is a favourite among skincare lovers. The anti-aging moisturiser from Olay has over 1,750 promising reviews and an average star rating of 4.5 out of 5, making it the number one bestseller in Face Day Care Creams on Amazon.

The gel cream formulation is brimming with skin-loving ingredients such as hyaluronic acid to plump and hydrate, in addition to peptides to help kick start the formation of new collagen.

One reviewer wrote: 'I have used Regenerist on and off for a number of years. Each time a new 'miracle' cream comes out, I try it, but I always come back to this, as this works better than any other at smoothing out my skin.

'Good value for money too as it's much cheaper than on the high street.'

Buy now on Amazon

Amazon subscription deals Amazon Music Unlimited 4 months, now £0.99 (was £9.99 pm) Amazon is giving UK music lovers the chance to stream four months of Amazon Music Unlimited service for under one pound (that’s a saving of nearly £39). You don't need to be a Prime member to take advantage of this amazing deal, but this trial promotion is only available for new subscribers. Offer valid till January 6th 2020. View offer Premier League live on Prime Video 20 Premier League games will be live and exclusive on Prime Video this December. For the first time ever in the UK all games on the 26 and 27 December will be shown. Existing Amazon Prime customers will be able to access these Premier League fixtures for free. Start your 30 day free trial now (£7.99 pm after trial period). View offer

Check out our discount section for Amazon deals and offers.

MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.