A pack of seventeen sausage dogs have celebrated Christmas in style with their very own family photo.

Owner Liam Beach, 20, from Rhondda, Wales decided to dress the dogs in their very own festive jumpers as yuletide approaches and pose up his proud pack for a quick snap.

Pooches Buster, Daisy, Ziggy, Wallie, Zac, Bonnie, Saffie, Duke, Diamond, Ruby, Kizzy, Sammy, Kansy, Kiki, Lottie, Benji and Dudley were all on their best behaviour as they stood on Liam's stairs.

The perfect pack of sausages! Owner Liam Beach lined up the 17 sausage dogs. From top, left to right: Buster, Daisy, Ziggy, Wallie, Zac, Bonnie, Saffie, Duke, Diamond, Ruby, Kizzy Sammy, Kandy, Kiki, Lottie, Benji and Dudley

He said: 'I have done pictures of the dogs previously, dressed up for Christmas on the sofa and thought, "I need to top them". So I thought I'd do it on the stairs this year.

'I thought, "That's a challenge", so I had to go one better to prove people wrong with the dogs all dressed up ready for Christmas. I thought it would be funny to see them all dressed up in their little outfits.

'It took about 45 minutes to get the picture, because when the dogs were dressed in their outfits they thought it was time to go walking and all went crazy running around the house.

'So, I had to calm them down before putting them on the stairs.

A festive snap of Liam's sausage dogs wearing Santa hats from a previous year. The proud owner decided he wanted to up the ante with this year's festive photo

A snap of one of Liam's sausage dogs from a previous year wearing a Santa hat. He said he wanted to prove doubters wrong this year with a more elaborate portrait

'Once they were on the stairs it took ten minutes to get the picture using a squeaky ball and a bag of treats this time around.

'It was a harder picture to get this year because they thought it was walkies.

'After a while on the stairs with their jumpers on they began to fall asleep so I had to work hard at keeping them awake and looking at the camera.

'People are absolutely loving the picture and commenting how amazing it is and how they are envious of me and that I am lucky having so many.'

Liam Beach, 20, with one of his dogs. It took him about 45 minutes to set up the shot this year

Here the sausage dogs are pictured in a previous year. Liam now has 17 Dachshunds and a black Labrador

Last summer, Liam posed up the pack again for a adorable photo on the stairs.

Liam said at the time: 'My friend Catherine challenged me to try to get all of my lot sat on the stairs for a photo.

'She said "I bet you can't pull it off" so I thought "challenge accepted". She also promised me a box of chocolates if I managed it.

'She set me that task on Friday morning and 10 minutes later I had the photo. It took me eight minutes in total. I timed myself.

Last summer, Liam posed up the pack again for an adorable photo on the stairs, but went one step further for Christmas by dressing them up

'My friends think the picture is amazing and my family love it. We are going to get it framed.

'I posted the photo online too and people keep commenting on how much they love it and that they're amazed by how I've managed to get the daxies to sit still.

'It's amazing the amount of positive reactions I've had because sometimes people are judge-y about the amount of dogs I have.

Animal management graduate Liam lives with his mother Cheryl Beach, 59, father Anthony Beach, 58, their 17 dachshunds and their black Labrador Jess, 12.

Lottie, Daisy, Dudley, Wallie, Diamond, Ruby, Benjie, Buster, Bonnie, Ziggy, Sammy, Kizzy, Kiki, Zac, Duke and Saffie were placed on the steps by Liam and told to 'stay'. They are pictured here with their black Labrador sister Jess

Dashchund Diamond, aged one, is pictured with her mother Lottie, four, and her father Duke, two

Sammy quickly inspired a love for the breed and before the Beaches knew it, their dachshund brood was growing

Liam managed to set up and capture the adorable shot of his well-behaved pooches in eight minutes this summer, but the festive version took 45 minutes

The family got their first sausage dog Sammy, eight, after Liam's sister Laura Beach, 35, spotted a local ad for dachshund puppies.

Sammy quickly inspired a love for the breed and before the Beaches knew it, their dachshund brood was growing.

First came the addition of Kizzy, eight, so Sammy had a friend and then the Beaches welcomed Bonnie and Ziggy, both seven.

Four sausage dogs and a Labrador might be more than enough for most but things only 'escalated' when the family started breeding their pedigree pooches.

Despite always planning to see their puppies off to good homes, Liam says his family always get attached and can never say 'goodbye' to every tiny pup.