Advertisement

Prince Charles says his father Prince Philip is being looked after 'very well' on his fourth day in hospital, but he did not reveal whether he would be home in time for Christmas.

The Duke of Edinburgh, 98, has been in hospital since Friday morning and was admitted after a period of poor health, battling a 'flu-like' illness for weeks and suffering a 'bad fall'.

He was flown from the Queen's Sandringham Estate in Norfolk to the King Edward VII Hospital in Marylebone, London amid growing concern for his health.

Speaking about his father to reporters as he visited the flood-hit village of Fishlake this afternoon, Prince Charles said: 'He's being looked after very well in hospital.

'At the moment that's all we know.'

Police officers were pictured outside the hospital where the Duke of Edinburgh is being cared for this afternoon.

Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh sits on a carriage during the Royal Windsor Horse Show, in Windsor in May. Buckingham Palace has insisted the Duke's hospital visit is for a pre-existing condition and is precautionary

Speaking about Prince Philip to reporters as he visited the flood-hit village of Fishlake this afternoon, Prince Charles said: 'He's being looked after very well in hospital'

Sky London, 59, from Marylebone, was outside the hospital on Monday and said: 'I'm worried about Prince Philip because of his age. He's knocking on now.

Royal biographer Ingrid Seward says 'tough as an ox' Philip and the Queen are 'used to spending large amounts of time apart' Royal expert Ingrid described the Duke as 'tough as an ox' in the aftermath of yesterday's helicopter dash. She told the Mirror: 'Philip has always been renowned for being as tough as an ox and ­incredibly active throughout his life. 'It is no surprise the Queen has carried on with her Sandringham plans while he is in hospital. 'Since the early days of their marriage when he was still serving in the Royal Navy they were used to spending large amounts of time apart and have always managed to be very independent of each other while remaining incredibly supporting of one another.'

'Of course everybody's worried about him.'

Buckingham Palace has stressed that he was not an emergency case and was being treated for a 'pre-existing condition'.

A Buckingham Palace statement on Friday said: 'The Duke of Edinburgh travelled from Norfolk this morning to the King Edward VII Hospital in London for observation and treatment in relation to a pre-existing condition.

'The admission is a precautionary measure, on the advice of His Royal Highness's doctor.'

Philip 'doesn't want any fuss' in the wake of his hospital treatment and has told his family to 'carry on as usual' with their festive celebrations.

It comes after a subdued Saturday at the Sandringham Estate in Norfolk, where the Queen is thought to have postponed her normal routine of visiting the Royal stud on the first day of her festive break.

The Queen normally tours the stud on the 20,000-acre estate soon after arriving from London to see her horses and the staff who care for them.

While staff appeared to be preparing for a Royal arrival yesterday morning, the Queen seemingly did not visit.

In another apparent break from routine, there was no Saturday pheasant shoot, despite it being the height of the shooting season.

In recent years, Philip has watched shoots at Sandringham from the warmth of a Land Rover.

Police officers outside King Edward VII Hospital in London today, where the Duke of Edinburgh is being treated, having arrived at the hospital on Friday

The palace has repeatedly insisted that Philip's condition is not considered serious or an emergency.

It has also been said that no senior members of the Royal Family intend to visit the 98-year-old and 'will not be changing long-held plans'.

98-year-old Prince Philip's recent health scares and hospital admissions Prince Philip has boasted excellent health for a 98-year-old and has repeatedly insisted he has not had the flu for more than 40 years. Not to be cowed by his ill health in recent years, he still enjoys an active life and continues with his carriage driving, which he took up in 1971 after retiring from polo. In 1961, the Duke broke a bone in his left ankle in a collision on the polo field. Polo also left him suffering from arthritis in his right wrist, a condition made worse by shaking many thousands of hands at official function. But in recent years he has struggled a little more with illness. These are the recent, most high-profile cases. December 2011: The prince is airlifted to hospital from Sandringham two days before Christmas after suffering chest pains, and undergoes surgery for a blocked coronary artery. June 2012: Philip is taken to hospital after developing a urinary infection during the river pageant to mark the Queen's Diamond Jubilee June 2013: Philip has abdominal surgery for an undisclosed condition and spends 11 days in hospital, including his 92nd birthday. December 2016: Both the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh suddenly cancel plans to leave London for their festive break in Norfolk after they both come down with heavy colds. June 2017: Philip admitted to hospital as 'a precautionary measure' for an infection arising from a pre-existing condition, the Palace said April 2018: The Duke of Edinburgh spends 11 days in hospital following his successful hip replacement December 20, 2019: Philip, 98, left Sandringham to attend the King Edward VII Hospital in London.

Royal sources said that he was expected to remain in hospital for a few days, raising the prospect that he could be discharged in time to join the Queen and other senior Royals at Sandringham on Christmas Eve.

The Royal Family traditionally lay out their presents on trestle tables on December 24 and exchange their gifts at tea time.

On Christmas Day, they attend morning service at the nearby St Mary Magdalene Church.

The duke, who will celebrate his 99th birthday next June, has enjoyed largely excellent health for most of his life, appearing to recover well from a planned hip replacement in April last year.

He even escaped with minor injuries after a car crash near Sandringham in January, which led him to voluntarily give up his licence, but was said to have been left deeply shaken by the incident.

But over the past decade he has been admitted to hospital for abdominal surgery, bladder infections and a blocked coronary artery, which also saw him flown to hospital by helicopter.

The duke has rarely been seen since his retirement from public duties, apart from at the odd family engagement.

He was last spotted over the summer, enjoying the Royal Family's annual sojourn at Balmoral.

Meanwhile, the Prince of Wales arrived in Fishlake, South Yorkshire, to see the impact of the severe flooding that hit the village last month.

Charles, 71, met firefighters, police and soldiers on the outskirts before walking into the village, which was hit by 'biblical' levels of rain.

He will then tour Fishlake, visiting homes and local businesses, including The Old Butcher's Café and Hare and Hounds pub that have suffered because of the floods.

Charles will also meet volunteers and witness the relief efforts in St Cuthbert's Church which has been converted into a temporary goods store and support centre.

Finally, he will attend a reception in the Town Hall with people from Fishlake, Bentley and Stainforth that have been involved in the recovery and rescue work.

More than 1,000 homes and 200 businesses were affected by the horrifying flooding last month, with many of the properties utterly devastated.

The rebuilding process is expected to last well until next year with residents unable to get home in time for Christmas.

Entire ground floors of properties have been destroyed, with homeowners still desperately trying to dry out walls and plasterboard.

Many of the flood-affected villagers have 'emptied their lives' into skips and piles of rubbish lay strewn in people's gardens.

Charles, 71, met firefighters, police and soldiers on the outskirts before walking into the village of Fishlake, near Doncaster. He also provided an update on the health of Prince Philip

The village of Fishlake, Doncaster, submerged under flood water in November after heavy rains devastated the village

Entire ground floors of properties have been destroyed, with homeowners still desperately trying to dry out walls and plasterboard

Josh Knaggs works on his uncle's home in Fishlake, where he is having to strip off sodden plaster down to the mortar so it can be replaced

The inside of the house, showing where Mr Knaggs has stripped off the plaster. Lots more work remains to return the house to its previous condition

Allen Buck, a resident of Fishlake, South Yorkshire, continues the clean up after his bungalow flooded in November

Volunteer Ruth Pridham with products donated to St Cuthbert's Church in Fishlake, South Yorkshire, to help victims of the November flooding

Skips filled with rubble from water damaged homes in Fishlake, South Yorkshire, after the area flooded in November

Fields that were submerged when the River Don burst its banks have been left damaged and previously lush green grass left covered with large patches of mud.

Dramatic drone photographs from the time show the devastation in the village, near Doncaster, as roads and fields were turned into rivers.

Clarence House confirmed that Charles had made donations to flood relief funds in South Yorkshire and Derbyshire.

The donations, made through the Prince of Wales Charitable Foundation, have been made to Foundation Derbyshire's flood relief fund and another to the South Yorkshire Community Foundation.

They have been matched by the Duke of Westminster.