Your daily look at late-breaking news, upcoming events and the stories that will be talked about today:

1. `THE PRESIDENT IS IMPEACHED´ Donald Trump becomes only the third American chief executive to be formally charged under the Constitution´s ultimate remedy for high crimes and misdemeanors.

2. PELOSI STOKES IMPEACHMENT TRIAL UNCERTAINTY The House speaker, dismayed by comments from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, refuses to say when she'll send the impeachment articles to the chamber for the trial.

3. HOW LAST DEBATE OF 2019 IS SHAPING UP The tug-of-war between the progressive and moderate wings of the Democratic party is deadlocked and each of the four front-runners has glaring flaws.

4. WHERE TRUMP WILL GET A BIG WIN The Democratic-led House is expected to overwhelmingly pass a signature trade bill for the president, the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement.

5. BRITISH MONARCH TO UNVEIL NEW GOVERNMENT´S AGENDA Queen Elizabeth II will open a new session of Parliament, with a speech giving the first concrete details of what Boris Johnson plans to do with his House of Commons majority.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of Calif., left, accompanied by House Financial Services Committee Chairwoman Maxine Waters, D-Calif., right, and other House leadership, reviews her speech notes in a private room just off the House floor after the House votes to impeach President Donald Trump, Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019, on Capitol Hill in Washington. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik)

6. INDIA BANS PROTESTS AMID CITIZENSHIP LAW OUTRAGE There are hundreds of arrests too - the legislation has sparked anger at what many see as New Delhi´s push to bring the secular country closer to a Hindu state.

7. PORTRAITS OF RESILIENCE AFTER CLERGY ABUSE For those abused by priests, the violations are spiritual, the damage inflicted not just on the body and mind, but a system of beliefs, AP reports.

8. INCOME GROWTH GREATEST IN TECH HUBS Since 2013, household income grew the most in tech and entertainment centers like Austin, Texas; Nashville, Tennessee; and large chunks of the West Coast.

9. TOYOTA'S HUMANOID MIRRORS HUMAN MOVEMENTS The human-shaped robot T-HR3 now has faster and smoother finger movements because the wearable remote-control device has become lighter and easier to use.

10. HOW ROGER FEDERER VIEWS HIS FUTURE Now 38, the 20-time major champion tells the AP he isn´t sure when he will retire but says leaving on top is not a priority, because he doesn't think "the end, per se, is that important."

President Donald Trump speaks at a campaign rally in Battle Creek, Mich., Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019. (AP Photo/Paul Sancya)

House members vote as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi of Calif., stands on the dais, during a vote on article II of impeachment against President Donald Trump, Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019, on Capitol Hill in Washington. (AP Photo/Patrick Semansky)

House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff, D-Calif., checks his watch on Capitol Hill in Washington, Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019, after the House of Representatives voted to impeach President Donald Trump on two charges, abuse of power and obstructing Congress. (AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin)

Dorothy Small, prays the rosary in her home in Woodland, Calif., on Tuesday, Sept. 24, 2019. What began as bike rides on sunny afternoons turned into forced physical contact and stalking, she said. Still, he was funny and warm and made her feel loved, and so when he bullied his way into her bedroom she froze. "I saw him as a priest," she said, "and I never stopped seeing him as a priest." (AP Photo/Wong Maye-E)

In this Sunday, Dec. 15, 2019 photo, Roger Federer talks to the Associated Press reporter during an exclusive interview in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. (AP Photo/Kamran Jebreili)

Indian policemen baton charge a man during a protest against a new citizenship law in Ahmadabad, India, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. Police detained several hundred protesters in some of India's biggest cities Thursday as they defied a ban on assembly that authorities imposed to stop widespread demonstrations against a new citizenship law that opponents say threatens the country's secular democracy. (AP Photo/Ajit Solanki)

Fight night at the Campanillas cockfighting club, in Toa Baja, Puerto Rico, Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019. The island of 3.2 million people has 71 cockfighting establishments in 45 municipalities licensed by the island's Department of Sports and Recreation. (AP Photo/Carlos Giusti)

An elderly Kashmiri Muslim man prays inside Jamia Masjid in Srinagar, Indian controlled Kashmir, Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019. A call to afternoon prayer has rung out from the central mosque in disputed Kashmir's largest city for the first time in more than four months, ending a virtual ban on religious practice in the Muslim-majority region's biggest mosque. The Jamia Masjid was shut Aug. 5 as part of India's security lockdown after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Hindu nationalist-led government stripped Kashmir of its semi-autonomous status. (AP Photo/Mukhtar Khan)