The festive season is in full swing and the countdown to Christmas is on. But late nights, hectic family celebrations and work deadlines can take a major toll on your skin, leaving it feeling dull, dehydrated and in need of a boost.





Thankfully, we’ve put together a list of handy hacks to help give your skin the TLC it deserves this winter – meaning you won’t have to turn down any social invitations!



From simple lifestyle changes to helpful holistic tips for targeting dreaded dark circles, as well as the hero products helping you to protect, hydrate and recover during festive season, we've got you covered. Read on to discover how to get your glow back, banish telltale signs of tiredness and boost your complexion…

HACK ONE: HYDRATE FROM THE INSIDE OUT

'Tis the season to be jolly: Christmas can cause havoc with our skin thanks to many a celebration and late night, but here are several ways you can stay looking great going into 2020

In order to help balance the temptations of the festive season, make sure you stay hydrated. It's important to do this because your body needs water or other fluids to work properly and to avoid dehydration.

This helps your body maintain a healthy balance and can reduce feelings of tiredness, as well as potentially having a positive impact on your skin.

To help combat tell-tale signs of dehydration, make sure you are drinking plenty of water throughout the day.

You could even make a pact with friends that for every alcoholic drink you consume, you’ll follow it up with a glass of H2O.

Whilst staying hydrated helps support your body's normal functioning, one of the best ways to directly target dehydrated skin is using skincare with ingredients such as hyaluronic acid.

Hyaluronic acid boasts powerful properties; holding 1,000 times its own weight in water, it attracts water to the skin and locks it in.

This can help skin look more radiant and feel more supple because the cells are plump and firm, which is where your new festive wish list products come in…

HACK TWO: REHYDRATE SKIN AFTER A LATE NIGHT

Your next beauty must-have: The award-winning Vichy Minéral 89 Eyes and much-loved Vichy Minéral 89 are minimalist hydrating formulas with clinically proven results

Vichy Laboratoires’ Minéral 89 Hyaluronic Acid Hydration Booster is the perfect ally for when your complexion needs a little extra attention during the hectic festive season.

The fortifying formula is enriched with Vichy's highest concentration of its famous Mineralizing Water along with high molecular weight hyaluronic acid, and works to hydrate and plump skin with moisture.

Your secret weapon after a late night, the minimalist, 11 ingredient-only booster strengthens the skin's barrier function, protecting it from pollution and giving you that much sought-after glow.

Boasting incredible hydrating properties, Vichy Minéral 89 comes in two sizes, 50ml and 75ml, and has a fresh, light gel-like texture that absorbs into the skin immediately, drenching it with moisture for instant hydration.

A perfect first step for every skincare routine, Vichy Minéral 89 acts as your skin's daily dose of strength, fortifying and protecting it against external aggressors for radiant, hydrated, healthy-looking skin.

Backed by clinically proven results (all tested in the Vichy laboratories under dermatological control), and with over 1,500 5* reviews (on Vichy.co.uk*), you don't need to take our word for it!

HACK THREE: DISCOVER THE MAGIC OF MASSAGE

At-home pamper: Get ready to jump-start lymphatic drainage with a massage at home, helping to alleviate any fluid that has pooled beneath your eyes

Often, our eyes are one of the first areas to give away signs of tiredness.

Getting the blood flowing in your face can help give your complexion a much-needed boost, particularly when it comes to this fragile skin around your eyes.

DISCOVER THE POWER OF VICHY MINERALIZING WATER The hero ingredient in Minéral 89 Eyes is its Vichy Mineralizing Water. The natural active water is found deep within the earth in the volcanic Auvergne region in France. Naturally rich in 15 essential minerals, this legendary water boasts an array of skin benefits: strengthening skin's natural anti-oxidant defences, rebalancing pH levels and stimulating cell renewal. This remarkable power is backed up by no fewer than 16 scientific studies!

It is often recommended to try a simple yet effective massage while applying your eye care to reduce puffiness and calm inflammation – and it couldn't be easier to try at home.

Place the ring finger of each hand between your brows, applying a light pressure as you move your fingers in slow, circular motions from the inner corner along underneath the eyes to the outer corners.

This daily pampering trick can help boost lymphatic drainage and can help to refresh the delicate eye area.

For even more of a bright-eyed look this festive season, try combining the movement with a reviving dose of Vichy Minéral 89 Eyes.

Vichy Laboratoires’ award-winning booster Minéral 89 Eyes hydrates, smooths and brightens the whole eye area, helping reduce the appearance of eye bags and fine lines.

Perfect for an instant pick-me-up, the powerful formula is enriched with pure caffeine, high and low molecular weight hyaluronic acid, adenosine and Vichy Mineralizing Water, and absorbs instantly, leaving skin hydrated - but thankfully not greasy, sticky or shiny.

The award-winning product, which was named Best Eye Cream at the Cosmopolitan 2019 Beauty Awards, is also suitable for sensitive skin and contact lens wearers, making it the perfect last minute gift or treat-to-self this Christmas.

HACK FOUR: GET YOUR BEAUTY SLEEP

Sleeping beauty! Getting a good night's sleep is vital as it helps give your skin cells time to rebuild and repair themselves. Stock image

It can be hard enough getting your 8 hours a night when you’re juggling family, social life and work. Throw Christmas into the mix and our schedules become a little chaotic, leaving little time for sleep.

Over 50 per cent of UK women complain of at least one concern over the appearance of their eyes, whether it's dark circles, bags or puffiness – and the main culprits are often lack of sleep and stress**.

Our cells repair and rebuild themselves when we’re asleep, and if you’re not getting enough rest, your body struggles to catch up!

It might not be glamorous, but set enough time aside to rest if you can, whether it’s an early bedtime a couple of nights a week or a lie in. Your skin will thank you for it!

Struggling to get enough slumber? If you can, try gentle exercise such as yoga or meditation before bed to help you switch off and turn your bedroom into a gadget-free zone.

HACK FIVE: THE ART OF DISGUISE

Disguise tell-tale signs of tiredness: Dermablend Fluid Corrective Foundation from Vichy, is designed to camouflage blue veins and under-eye circles, helping you look bright-eyed and bushy-tailed

Make-up artist tips for flawless skin: 1. Layer your foundation: Add coverage bit by bit to help achieve a flawless finish 2. Use a damp sponge: For a smooth and even base 3. Avoid clogging: Choose a buildable coverage foundation like Vichy Dermablend Fluid Corrective Foundation 4. Choose your coverage: If you’re looking for light coverage, mix a small amount of moisturiser with your foundation for a more sheer finish 5. Set your make-up: Finish your base with a powder such as Vichy Dermablend Setting Powder to set your makeup and help it to stay fresh for longer!

We all need a little extra help sometimes - and concealing the tell-tale signs of tiredness can be key to surviving the festive season!

Cheat your way to a flawless finish with Vichy Dermablend Fluid Corrective Foundation, your quick fix to looking bright-eyed and bushy tailed.

It provides amazing, full yet natural-looking coverage, helping to conceal everything from dark circles to scarring and pigmentation.

Better still, it’s hypoallergenic and suitable for sensitive skin, as well as being suitable for acne or rosacea.

For those of us with oily or combination skin, it can be hard to keep your perfect party look in place without continual touch ups.

The Vichy Dermablend Setting Powder works wonders to lock in your make-up, combatting excess oil and keeping your coverage even until dawn.

Armed with this fail-safe duo in your make-up-bag, you'll be perfectly set up to see off the decade in style!

All eyes on Vichy Minéral 89 Eyes: What the reviews say... Give your skin a boost this festive season: Save 25% on Minéral 89 50ml & Minéral 89 Eyes at Boots and Boots.com***

*Mineral 89 has more than 1,500 5* reviews on vichy.co.uk, as of 12.12.19. Includes reviews syndicated from Vichy Canada.

**Beauty Track, IPSOS 2016.

***Available at Boots and Boots.com

Offer valid until 30.12.2019. Available at larger Boots stores. Subject to availability.