Russia is to appeal against the four-year ban imposed by the World Anti-Doping Agency, according to reports.

The Russian TASS news agency reported on Thursday that the country's anti-doping agency RUSADA had said it would challenge the sanctions handed down by WADA earlier this month over alleged manipulation of laboratory data.

It would mean the case will now move to the Court of Arbitration for Sport next year.

Russian athletes will currently be unable to compete at Tokyo 2020 under their own flag

Russia president Vladimir Putin called the sanctions 'unlike anything in humankind history'

'Rusada will appeal against the Wada decision within 10 to 15 days,' Alexander Ivlev, chair of RUSADA's supervisory board, told TASS.

The sanctions included a ban on Russian teams competing at major international sporting events such as next year's Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games and the winter Games in Beijing in 2022.

It also barred Russia from hosting, or applying to host, international sporting events over a four-year period. The sanctions do not affect Russia playing at Euro 2020 next summer, or St Petersburg's status as a host city for that tournament.

WADA has been criticised for not imposing a blanket ban, with individual Russian athletes able to compete if they can prove they are not implicated in the manipulated laboratory data.

Senior political figures including President Vladimir Putin had signalled they wanted an appeal filed.

'We need to wait calmly for the relevant rulings, including the arbitration court ruling and we'll know what position we're in,' Putin said Thursday.

'Russian athletes have been training and will keep training for all competitions.'

WADA's four-year ban on Russia means no teams can compete internationally under their flag

Putin has spoken out and branded sanctions 'unlike anything in the history of humankind'

Putin said it was not fair to threaten Russia with more doping-related punishment, and that any sanctions should be on an individual basis. 'I think it is not just unfair but not corresponding to common sense and law,' Putin said.

He then went on to add that Russia were 'being punished for the same thing twice - we've never had anything like this in the history of humankind.'

WADA's decision to reinstate Russia to compliance in September 2018 has also been questioned. One of the conditions of reinstatement was to provide data from the Moscow laboratory covering the period January 2012 to August 2015.

This was handed over in January of this year, but WADA investigators discovered there were inconsistencies in the data when it was compared to another copy obtained via a whistleblower in 2017.

WADA vice-president Linda Helleland however believes the sanctions were not strong enough

The investigators found that some of the manipulation and deletion of data had occurred after Russia's reinstatement to compliance.

Travis Tygart, the chief executive of the United States Anti-Doping Agency (USADA), said in a statement: 'It's no surprise Russia has appealed even the light consequences imposed on its proven state-sponsored doping system and cover up, as they have failed to ever take responsibility for these sporting crimes and have shown they will stop at nothing to escape penalty.

'Yet again, they deny accountability and continue to waste precious and limited resources in an effort to weasel out of the consequences, all the while leaving clean athletes of the world without justice or clarity on their path forward.

'Let's hope CAS has the independence and courage to see through these machinations and finally stand firm and take decisive action that puts in place a complete ban, which is allowed for and proportional to the intentional fraud, deception, and destruction of clean athletes and the Olympic values seen here.'

Russia handed over the lab's doping data archive in January in return for having earlier sanctions lifted in 2018.

WADA investigators found evidence that Russia was intensively editing the data in the weeks before the handover to remove signs of failed drug tests and to plant fake messages.

U.S. Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) CEO Travis Tygart accused Russia of wasting 'precious and limited resources in an effort to weasel out of the consequences'.

'Let's hope CAS has the independence and courage to see through these machinations and finally stand firm and take decisive action that puts in place a complete ban,' Tygart said in a statement.