A proud mother has shared the magical moment her four-year-old daughter helped deliver her baby brother - even getting in the birthing pool with her.

April Wild, 29, welcomed her third child - a little boy called Grayson - after opting for a water birth at her Cheshire home.

The 29-year-old, who teaches hypnobirthing and pregnancy yoga, wanted to be surrounded by those she loved, and that's exactly what she got when her four-year-old daughter, River, decided to jump in the pool and help.

April was also joined by her husband, a doula, and photographer Corneli Fleur, from Bad*** Birth Photography, who captured the extraordinary moment on camera.

River, who immediately changed into her swimming costume to help, can be seen holding a wet flannel on her mother's back and even reaching down to hold Grayson's hand as he is born.

April Wild (pictured), 29, from Cheshire, gave birth to her son Grayson at home during a water birth, and received help from her partner XX and her four-year-old-daughter River (right)

A series of captivating pictures immortalised the moment where River hopped in the inflatable pool to help her mother, rubbing a wet flannel on her back (pictured)

April, who had her first child in hospital and her second at home, said: 'River has been involved in the pregnancy from the start really.

'She has been fascinated by it and I was happy to involve her. I want her to see childbirth as a positive experience rather than a scary one.

'I have another little boy who is two but she accidentally missed out on his birth because she was asleep, this time she was adamant she wanted to be there.

'She told me she wanted to be woken up, and I'm so glad she did because it was a real bonding experience.

River had missed the birth of her other younger brother because she was sleeping, but said she wanted to be woken up for this one. April said the incredible moment was a 'real bonding experience' for her family

Big sister River got to meet her younger brother Grayson right away (pictured). April explained the little girl kept asking what she could do to help her mother during the birth

'I thought I might feel distracted with her there, but it was actually the opposite. She kept asking what she could do to help.

'She had her pyjamas on at the start but soon raced away to put her swimming costume on.

'She even ended up in the pool before me.'

April during labour. The hypnobirthing and pregnancy yoga instructor said River hadn't stopped talking about the birth ever since Grayson was born

Pictured: Delighted April holds her son in her arms for the first time after giving birth. The mother-of-three explained she wanted her daughter to get involved, to learn that birth is not a scary experience

As labour got underway River got involved in the experience further still - reaching down to hold Grayson's hand as he emerged and gently stroking his head.

April added: 'It wasn't until I saw the photographs afterwards that I realised how involved she actually was.

'She was copying the doula and telling me to breathe and stay calm.

'Obviously if anything had changed and I felt like I couldn't have coped I would have asked my husband to take her away and distract her but as it was she was a massive help.

'It was so peaceful and I'll never forget her face when he arrived. She was delighted and hasn't stopped talking about the experience since.'

River reached out to her brother's head as he emerged from the water in an incredibly intimate moment (pictured)