Chrissie Swan, 46, has gifted her fans with an genius tip for making the ultimate Christmas pork crackling.

Taking to Instagram on Monday, the Nova FM breakfast presenter revealed to her fans that they should start preparing the meat two days before Christmas in order to achieve that sought-after crunch.

'If you’re making pork for Christmas make sure you leave it open in THE FRIDGE from today so the skin dries out for the best crackling ever', she advised in the post.

Chef in the making? Chrissie Swan, 46, has gifted her fans with an genius tip for making the ultimate Christmas pork crackling

She added: 'No matter if you use butter or oil or salt or whatever... leave it in the fridge out of any wrap TODAY. Do it.'

The accompanying image was a photo of a pork roast tied with strings.

Earlier this month the former Big Brother contestant shared a Christmas throwback photo to her Instagram.

'Do it TODAY': Taking to Instagram on Monday, the Nova FM breakfast presenter revealed to her fans that they should start preparing the meat two days before Christmas in order to achieve that sought-after crunch

Chrissie was barely recognisable as a frizzy-haired teenager, dressed in a multi-coloured striped shirt and skirt combo.

In the caption, Chrissie asked fans if any of them had also bought new outfits for Christmas, just like she had in the year the photo was taken.

'I know it seems impractical to buy a brand new outfit to go to your own house in but we always had new gladrags for the big day. This ensemble was special,' she wrote.

Throwback! Earlier this month the former Big Brother contestant shared a Christmas throwback photo to her Instagram

'I was head to toe Sportsgirl and even had a MATCHING STRIPED HEADBAND OMG SANTA YOU STYLE QUEEN!'

She added: 'The year was 1986 and I think my Mum and Gran also got the "wear stripes" memo (they're in the background in the blue and red).'

Chrissie said the family gathering had taken place at her aunt and uncle's home in Brisbane, adding: 'And the temperature was approximately 4000 degrees!'