New photos show Mel B being served with legal papers at LAX the day before she was caught on video being hit with three lawsuits as she checked into a Beverly Hills hotel.

In the photos taken Thursday night, the leopard-clad Spice Girl was seen arriving at Los Angeles International Airport, all smiles while clutching a tiny dog in her arms as she exits the airport.

Then, she and her companion were handed papers by a woman who was said to be a process server. As her friend read over the paper, Mel B could be seen making a confused face.

Mel B (in leopard print) is shown here reacting to being served legal papers as she exited Los Angeles International Airport Thursday night, alongside a friend

A woman said to be a process server (in black) handed the papers to Mel B and her friend. The papers were said to be legal documents drawn up by celebrity lawyer Ben Meiselas

The papers were said to be legal documents drawn up by Ben Meiselas of Geragos & Geragos Law firm.

Meiselas represents hairstylist Gary Madatyan, Mel B's close friend and confidante, who is suing the singer after he claims he was 'used and abused' by her.

Madatyan previously accused Mel B of refusing to return $200,000 of money she took from him and not paying him properly during two years of employment.

He filed a lawsuit against her in September 2019 and alleged Mel's personal physician tried to make him 'lie' to Los Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services about how Mel B's ex-husband Stephan Belafonte treats his and the singer's kids.

Earlier in the day - before the papers were served to Mel B at the airport - a judge refused to allow Mel B to take her daughter Madison to England for Christmas, after hearing claims that the eight-year-old was 'traumatized' by her mother the last time she went to the UK.

'I'm not going to put this kid in harm's way,' Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Mark Juhas said at a hearing where Mel's ex husband Stephen Belafonte - Madison's dad - vehemently objected to Mel's plan to spend the holiday in England.

Mel B (in leopard print) was all smiles as she exited LAX, holding a tiny dog in her hands

Mel B was not in court when the decision was made, but her attorney Taline Boyamian told Judge Juhas that the singer was schedule to arrive in Los Angeles that night to pick up Madison and her other daughter Phoenix, 20, to take them to the UK for Christmas.

Boyamian argued that under the couple's custody agreement, Mel is allowed to take Madison on international trips and that Belafonte originally gave his okay to her Christmas trip to England but later changed his mind and said no.

After the judge's ruling, Belafonte - sporting a beard and wearing a grey suit and black tie - told DailyMail.com: 'I'm very happy that Madison will spend Christmas with me here in Los Angeles. It'll be special - but then, every day is special with my daughter.'

Boyamian told DailyMail.com: 'Of course she (Mel B) will be disappointed. Maybe she'll change her plans and stay in LA for Christmas but I don't know what she'll do. I haven't spoken to her yet.'

The next day, footage obtained exclusively by DailyMail.com showed the moment an unidentified man presented Mel B with documents related to three lawsuits filed against her while shouting 'Yo Mel B, you’ve been served!'

The clip was taken at the London West Hollywood at Beverly Hills in Los Angeles on Friday.

'Melody, Mel B baby, you’ve been served baby!' the man says filming the singer as she stands at the front desk of the lavish hotel.

Mel B was hit with documents for three daunting lawsuits by a Los Angeles server as she checked into a Beverly Hills hotel, in a shocking confrontation all caught on video on Friday

Footage obtained exclusively by DailyMail.com shows the moment an unidentified man presents the Spice Girl with documents related to three lawsuits filed against her while shouting 'Yo Mel B, you’ve been served!'

'Melody, Mel B baby, you’ve been served baby!' the man says filming the singer as she stands at the front desk of the lavish hotel handing her a stack of documents that a source says are three separate lawsuits against the singer

The 44-year-old singer, whose real name is Melanie Brown, looks up at the camera initially with a smile on her face. When she hears what the man says she quips back, 'No, I haven't, no, I haven't' and walks away keeping her cool.

A source told DailyMail.com one of those lawsuits was by Gary Madatyan. Another one of those lawsuits is reportedly by her former lawyers. It's not clear what the third lawsuit involved.

Upon hearing the man the singer smiled and said 'No I haven't!' before walking away

After the man presented Mel B with a thick stack of documents, a concierge then jumped into action and said, 'Sir you’re going to have to exit the building.' He was then escorted out of the building

The video emerged a day after a judge refused to allow Mel B to take her daughter Madison to England for Christmas. The singer divorced Stephen Belafonte in 2018 but they're in the middle of a bitter custody battle

The video clip was taken at the London West Hollywood at Beverly Hills in Los Angeles

After the man presented Mel B with a thick stack of documents, a concierge then jumped into action and said, 'Sir you’re going to have to exit the building.'

'Yo Mel you’ve been served Mel! Ay everybody! Mel B has been served! Finally got her!' the man, seemingly unbothered, chants.

In the end he’s escorted off the premises.

The embattled singer is currently embroiled in a drawn out custody battle husband ex-husband Stephen Belafonte, who she divorced in 2018.