A young mother has recounted the horror of finding her daughter had swallowed 20 batteries after mistaking them for lollies.

Hope Summers, from Toowoomba in Queensland, walked into her bedroom on Saturday night to find two-year-old Saphira had eaten the batteries.

'I walked into the room and noticed the packaging on the bed and she pointed straight to her mouth and said ''oh yummy'' and I think my heart sunk,' Ms Summers told Seven News.

Scroll down for video

Hope Summers (pictured with Saphira), from Toowoomba in Queensland, walked into her bedroom on Saturday night to find two-year-old Saphira had eaten batteries

Saphira (pictured in hospital) had consumed the batteries thinking they were lollies and told her mum they were 'yummy'

The 26-year-old dialled triple-zero immediately but the ambulance officers were wary as she seemed happy and bubbly when they arrived.

'She was not showing any signs whatsoever of consuming these batteries,' Ms Summers said.

The pair were rushed to Toowoomba hospital but when they arrived, the two-year-old began writhing in agony and screaming on the hospital floor.

Symptoms: gagging or choking

drooling

chest pain (this may present as grunting)

coughing or noisy breathing

unexplained vomiting or food refusal

bleeding from the gut: black or red vomits or bowel motions

nose bleeds – sometimes this can be blood vomited through the nose

unexplained fever Source: ACCC

They were then flown to Brisbane Children's Hospital where she went in for emergency endoscopic surgery.

Doctors managed to retrieve some of the batteries, but Ms Summers was told the rest would pass through her bowel.

She was released on Sunday night with burns to her stomach but could go back to eating regular foods straight away.

The small batteries could have caused worse superficial burns to the two-year-old's stomach, with ambulance officers saying her mother's quick thinking saved her.

'I went home and threw out every single battery out of my house,' Ms Summers said.

The 26-year-old (pictured) dialled triple-zero immediately but the ambulance officers were wary as she seemed happy and bubbly when they arrived

Queensland Ambulance Service clinical director Tony Hucker called the small button batteries (pictured) 'silent killers'

Queensland Ambulance Service clinical director Tony Hucker called the small button batteries 'silent killers'.

'What happens when you ingest a button battery and it gets stuck in your esophagus, it will start burning straight away,' he said in a Facebook video about the incident.

'If you have button batteries in devices — and there is a range of devices from Christmas cards through to thermometers, to little pen lights and so on — they need to be child proof.'