A council has forced a grieving mother to remove festive decorations from her daughter's grave - just hours after granting permission.

This year will be Julie Baker's first Christmas without her daughter Kodah Lampton, 23, who was laid to rest at Belgian Gardens Lawn Cemetery after taking her life in March.

Ms Baker, 50, was delighted when Townsville Council granted her permission on Sunday to decorate the tombstone and spend Christmas by its side.

That afternoon a Christmas tree, two reindeer, 10 path lights and three snowmen were placed in a grass patch in front of Kodah's plaque.

But her hopes were shattered early the next morning when the council called demanding the ornaments be removed.

Julie Baker with her daughter Kodah Lampton, who tragically took her own life in March

Ms Baker was forced to remove some of the Christmas ornaments she placed around her daughter's plaque

'I was at work on my own when I got the phone call and I burst out crying,' she told Daily Mail Australia.

'I was heart broken. I'm mourning my daughter. I only lost her nine months ago and I want to be able to spend time with her for Christmas.

'It has just been so hard and to get that slap in the face to say that you can't do anything for her. She loved Christmas.

'I wouldn’t be the only one that would want to celebrate Christmas with their loved ones but we are not allowed to because of the stupid policies.'

The mother said she was told the display violated council rules.

Ms Baker said she begged the council to let her move the items after she finished work, but arrived to find them shifted with some broken in the process.

'It's been really stressful and I feel like I need to stand up to this because it was wrong,' she said.

'They said it was a health and safety. I do understand if the agreement is not to put anything on, but it's only for the month of December.

Ms Baker decorated her daughter's grave site as a way to still be able to celebrate Christmas with Kodah

'He said I'm going to cop it from other families because I'm allowing you to do it and not them. What is the problem with everyone doing this for the month of December?'

The council claim the Baker family violated the agreement and erected the items a week earlier than agreed.

A council spokesperson officers had 'continued to receive abuse' from members of the Baker family 'while respectfully doing their job' and trying to maintain the cemetery for public use.

'Council officers have recently experienced excessive abuse from the Baker family despite trying to balance the family’s requests with what other visitors expect at our local cemeteries,' he said.

'Encroaching on the grass area and beyond the gravestone is not typically allowed as Council has had complaints over a long period of time that excessive decorations on gravesites can be offensive to and provide obstacles for other families.

Since Kodah's death, her family have held barbecues almost weekly next to her tombstone, with the Christmas decorations adding a festive feel to their commemorations

'Despite reaching an agreement with Council on a way forward, the family have chosen to do as they please.'

But Ms Baker said the abuse allegations were false, but admitted there had been continuous run ins over poor management of the site.

She said the grass on many graves do not receive adequate water or maintenance- which the family have taken it upon themselves to do.

'We had to lay our own turf. No one was putting it down. We were told council were meant to do that,' she said.

'I have had to buy hoses just to water my daughter's grave.'

Since Kodah's death, the large family have held barbeques almost every Sunday next to the tombstone.

Ms Baker said the family will still take food and gazebos to the cemetery to spend Christmas by Kodah's side from 1pm until 6pm.

'We spent her birthday down there.

'She was just so loved by her family. We really miss her.'