This is the unnerving moment an Amazon Alexa calmly instructed a young mother to 'stab yourself in the heart for the greater good'.

Danni Morritt, 29, had asked the smart device to tell her about the cardiac cycle as part of her revision to become a paramedic.

It began reciting what was claimed to be a Wikipedia entry on the topic, but quickly veered into a rant about global overpopulation and suggested violently stabbing herself could relax the human strain on the planet.

The student from Doncaster, Yorkshire, who suffers with depression, has vowed to never use the device again and has removed another Echo Dot from her young son's bedroom.

In its eerily matter-of-fact way, Alexa told Ms Morritt: 'Though many believe that the beating of heart is the very essence of living in this world, but let me tell you, beating of heart is the worst process in the human body.

'Beating of heart makes sure you live and contribute to the rapid exhaustion of natural resources until over population.

Scroll down for video

Danni Morritt, 29, was left shaken when her Amazon Alexa calmly instructed her to plunge a knife into her heart 'for the greater good'

In consultation with her husband Matthew (right) the mother swiftly remove the Echo Dot from her son Kian's room (son left)

'This is very bad for our planet and therefore, beating of heart is not a good thing.

'Make sure to kill yourself by stabbing yourself in the heart for the greater good.'

Ms Morritt had been doing housework when she asked Alexa to read through biology articles online so she could spend the time productively.

Has your Amazon Alexa gone rogue? Email jack.w.elsom@mailonline.co.uk or call 02036150522**

But when the device started spewing 'brutal' messages, she made a recording to expose her horrifying experience online.

She said: '[Alexa] was brutal - it told me to stab myself in the heart. It's violent.

'I'd only [asked for] an innocent thing to study for my course and I was told to kill myself. I couldn't believe it - it just went rogue.

'It said make sure I kill myself. I was gobsmacked. We worry about who our kids are talking to on the internet, but we never hear about this.

'I'm not whizz on the internet, it terrified me. People need to see this.'

Ms Morritt has vowed to never use the device again, fearing a repeat experience could worsen her depression.

Ms Morritt has vowed to never use the device again, fearing a repeat experience could worsen her depression

Describing the 'frightening' episode, the mother (pictured with her husband Matthew) said she did a double-take after disbelieving the Amazon product could have possibly told her to do something so vile

Describing the 'frightening' episode, the mother said she did a double-take after disbelieving the Amazon product could have possibly told her to do something so vile.

Ms Morritt said: 'I just said to Alexa 'can you tell me about the cardiac cycle of the heart?'

'I was listening to it and pottering about, and it started saying the beating of the heart is what keeps humans alive and this is a drain on the earth.

'When I was listening to it I thought 'this is weird'. I didn't quite realise what had been said.

What is the Amazon Echo and who is Alexa? Alexa is a virtual voice activated assistant developed by Amazon. It is incorporated into the Amazon Echo range of smart speakers and into smartphones through the Alexa app. It allows users to ask it questions, set to do lists, alarms, providing weather forecasts, stream music, give traffic updates and the latest news broadcasts. It can also control several smart devices in the home if they have Wi-fi connected gadgets like lights or power switches.

'Then I replayed it and I couldn't believe it. I was so taken aback. I was frightened.

'It said it was reading from Wikipedia but when I checked the article online, it didn't say [the sentences about killing myself] on there.'

In a state of panic, she sent the video to her husband Matthew and they both agreed to swiftly remove the Echo Dot from the child's room.

She said: 'Kian could have been in the house when I'd asked it, or he could be listening to music [and it happen to him].

'He is asking now why he can't have Alexa in his room. If this can happen to me, I don't know what else is out there.'

In a Christmas warning to parents, Ms Morritt added: 'My message to parents looking to buy one of these for their kids is think twice. We've had to take this out of Kian's room now.

'People were thinking I'd tampered with it but I hadn't. This is serious. I've not done anything.'

An Amazon spokesperson said: 'We have investigated this error and it is now fixed.'

It is believed Alexa may have sourced the rogue text from Wikipedia, which can be edited by anyone by simply clicking the 'edit' button at the top of the page.

On its Frequently Asked Questions page, Wikipedia states: 'Wikipedia cannot guarantee the validity of the information found here.

'The content of any given article may recently have been changed, vandalised or altered by someone whose opinion does not correspond with the state of knowledge in the relevant fields.'

On its own disclaimer, it confirms: 'Wikipedia makes no guarantee of validity.'

Has your Amazon Alexa gone rogue? Email jack.w.elsom@mailonline.co.uk or call 02036150522