ITV have sent fans wild with a throwback snap of Ant McPartlin, Cat Deeley and Declan Donnelly presenting CD:TV in 1998.

The three fresh-faced presenters, who were all part of the SM:TV Live team, are all grinning in the photo and got into the festive spirit with Santa hats.

Alongside the photo posted to social media, ITV wrote: 'C is for a Christmas CD:UK! Can you guess what act and song was at Christmas number one when this photo was taken… *hint* it was CD:UK’s very first year.'

Blast from the past: ITV have sent fans wild with a throwback snap of Ant McPartlin, Cat Deeley and Declan Donnelly presenting CD:TV (pictured in 1998)

The correct answer was the Spice Girls' hit Goodbye, which was the Christmas number one in 1998.

Many fans felt nostalgic over the snap and asked that the trio reunite for an SM:TV reunion as was previously planned for the show's 20th anniversary in 2018.

One social media user wrote: 'I used to love CDUK, bring it back please!' while another said: 'Love it. We are still waiting for that SMTV reunion though'.

SM:TV Live was first broadcast on August 29, 1998 and ran until December 27, 2003.

Loved: Ant, Cat and Dec all presented the hugely popular 90s kids show and it was previously thought the show may be brought back for its 20th anniversary last year (pictured in 2004)

Reaction: Fans were hit with nostalgia from the snap and many thought the trio should get together once more for a reunion show

The hugely popular show was thought to be making a comeback last year, but Ant's drink-driving scandal meant the reunion was shelved.

Speaking at the BAFTAs in February 2017, Dec told The Sun of the SM:TV reunion: 'ITV have just agreed to it. They are on board now. We've had the first discussion now and it's going to be August or September next year.

'We can't say too much but we're getting the team back together. It'll be on Saturday morning again at 9.25.'

Popular: SM:TV Live was first broadcast on August 29, 1998 and ran until December 27, 2003 (pictured in 1998)

Ant and Dec previously marked the shows 20th reunion with their own throwback snap alongside Cat.

The shot of Ant, Dec, who were 22 at the time, and Cat. who was 21, was captioned: '20 years ago today, on August 29th 1998, #smtvlive and #cduk appeared on our tellyboxes for the first time. We haven't changed a bit eh @catdeeley!? #tv #nostalgia #1990s #wonkeydonkey #chums.'

Celebrity fans went wild in the comments, with Ant and Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway co-star Scarlett Moffatt gushing: 'You all literally have not changed ha!!'.

TV presenter Laura Whitmore agreed, writing: 'You all kinda look the same!x'

Cat herself also replied to the post after Dec posted it on Twitter, writing: 'Not much... mentally still 8 and 3/4's' followed by a slew of kisses.