She's been updating fans with snaps from her sun-soaked break over social media, just a few weeks after she engaged in a tearful discussion with her boyfriend.

And Zara McDermott and Sam Thompson appeared to pine for their romantic break in the Maldives as they shared more images from their recent getaway on Instagram on Wednesday.

The former Love Islander, 23, and the Made In Chelsea star, 27 - who returned the UK earlier this week - tapped into full relaxation mode as they kicked their feet up on a hammock, which was positioned just above the clear blue sea.

Holiday blues: Zara McDermott and Sam Thompson pined for their romantic break in the Maldives as they shared more images from their recent getaway on Instagram on Wednesday

Displaying her incredible figure, the X Factor Celebrity star slipped into a frilly black crop top emblazoned with the word 'angel', teamed with a pair of tiny briefs.

The media personality flaunted her natural, sun-kissed beauty as she went make-up free, and wore her tresses in its naturally wavy state.

Hunky Sam, meanwhile, exhibited his ripped abs and toned upper body in a pair of black swimming trunks as he rested on his lady's lap.

Care-free: The former Love Islander, 23, and the Made In Chelsea star, 27 - who returned the UK earlier this week - tapped into relaxation mode as they kicked their feet up on a hammock

Working it! In a separate photo, the former government adviser slipped into a tiny white bikini as she posed on a personal watercraft

Moving on: They've been updating fans with snaps from her sun-soaked break over social media, just a few weeks after they engaged in a tearful discussion

In a separate photo, the former government adviser slipped into a tiny white bikini as she posed on a personal watercraft.

Earlier this month, aspiring singer Zara was seen in tears as the couple had an intense discussion outside Raffles in London. MailOnline contacted Zara and Sam's representatives at the time of publication.

The smitten couple confirmed their relationship in May - revealing they met after Zara slid into Sam's DMs. The reality star told OK! Online: 'She slid into my DMs. It was great and I’m glad she did.'

Bombshell: Earlier in the month, Zara put on a raunchy display in a very racy photo to celebrate her 23rd birthday

Wow-factor! During their trip, they treated themselves to refreshing bike rides, a spot of snorkelling and breakfast by the scenic sea

The finer things: Pastries and fresh fruit decorated in vibrant flowers were presented to the pair every morning of their getaway

Speaking about how they first met, Zara later told MailOnline: 'We met a year-and-a-half ago at an event before I was on Love Island. He doesn't remember as he was drunk! We got speaking on Instagram three to four months ago and here we are.'

To which Sam elaborated: 'I was in the Dominican Republic, minding my own business, when Zara replied to an Instagram story... Zara slid into my DMs.

'It was great as then I had the courage to ask her out on a date, we went on our first date about three months ago now. Since the moment she slid into my DMs, we haven't not spoke every day.'