The number of people in Britain believed to be at genuine risk of being drawn into terrorism has hit record levels in the past year, the Home Office said today.

Priti Patel's department has also claimed the number of referrals of potential far-right terrorists now outnumbers possible jihadists - despite violent Islamist extremists still murdering and maiming significantly more people on British soil.

The government's controversial £40million anti-radicalisation scheme Prevent, which aims to stop terrorists before they offend, says 561 people were found to be at 'risk of radicalisation' in the year to March - with 254 classed as holding far-right views and 210 classed as suspected Islamists.

A referral to Prevent about a potential terrorist will usually come from a teacher, doctors, police officer or relative - but taking part in the programme is not compulsory.

And the Home Office's figures do not refer to plots, arrests or convictions for terror offences or the fact jihadis have been responsible for significantly more deaths on Britain's streets than far-right extremists since Prevent began in 2011.

Since 2016 jihadis have murdered 64 people and injured 212 others in attacks using cars, knives and bombs in Westminster, at the Manchester Arena and twice on London Bridge. The second of these was carried out by convicted terrorist Usman Khan last month, who was released from prison early with a tag despite plotting to blow up the London Stock Exchange.

In the same period there have been two killings carried out by far-right terrorists in the UK - the murder of Labour MP Jo Cox by neo-Nazi Thomas Mair in 2016 and Darren Osborne's killing of a Muslim man outside the Finsbury Park mosque in 2017.

London Bridge attacker Usman Khan, a convicted Islamist terrorist released from jail early on a tag is shot dead by police after murdering two people last month - but the Home Office claims it is receiving more referrals about far-right terrorism for the first time

And in the 12 months to September 2019, 224 people were arrested on suspicion of terror offences in the UK - and three out of four of them held Islamist-extremist views.

Usman Khan (pictured) stabbed two people to death and injured three others near London Bridge at the end of November - but the threat of Islamic terror cases are dropping in Britain, figures show

Experts believe the increase in far-right referrals to Prevent could be skewed by increased sharing and posting of far-Right material online or via messaging services such as WhatsApp - rather genuine plots to murder and maim.

Police and the security services have been urged 'not to take their eye off the ball' because of the perceived increasing threat of right-wing violence.

London Bridge attacker and previously convicted terrorist Usman Khan was free to kill two Cambridge graduates after successfully overturning his original sentence for his part in a plot to blow up the London Stock Exchange.

Khan injured three others during his rampage which started at a prisoner rehabilitation conference less than a year after he was released from jail on licence half way through a 16-year jail sentence.

He was banned from London under the terms of his bail but used the cover of the education event to commit murder with knives and spark fear by wearing a fake terror belt.

One in seven Islamists jailed for terror offences have been let out early after appealing their sentences, it emerged last week.

They include extremists who plotted to blow up shopping centres, nightclubs and army bases, targeted members of the Royal Family and led al Qaeda cells planning mass murder on a 'colossal and unprecedented scale'.

Khuram Butt, the leader of the 2017 attack on London Bridge that spread into Borough Market, was involved with Prevent but still helped murder eight people.

And the perpetrator of the Parsons Green train bombing, Iraqi refugee Ahmed Hassan, was also referred to Prevent before trying and failing to detonate a bucket IED on the Tube two years ago.

Khuram Butt, the leader of the 2017 attack on London Bridge and Parsons Green train bomber, Ahmed Hassan, were referred to Prevent, which is a voluntary scheme

The number of referrals over right-wing extremism to the Government's anti-terror scheme Prevent has hit record levels - but jihadis have claimed significantly more lives in Britain

The latest Home Office figures show that in 2018/19:

Prevent: £40million-a-year scheme that failed to stop Parsons Green Tube bomber Parsons Green Tube bomber Ahmed Hassan on the bus with his bucket bomb Prevent, which was introduced in 2011, has an annual budget of about £40 million and aims to stop people being drawn into terrorism. Extremism is defined by Prevent as, 'vocal or active opposition to fundamental British values, including democracy, the rule of law, individual liberty, and mutual respect and tolerance of different faiths and beliefs. We also include in our definition of extremism calls for the death of members of the armed forces.' Public bodies including councils and schools are required by the 2015 Counter-Terrorism Act to have 'due regard to the need to prevent people from being drawn into terrorism.' Anyone concerned that someone they know is at risk of radicalisation can refer them to Prevent, but only a small percentage of cases are deemed to require anti-extremism action. When authorities conclude there is a risk the person could be drawn into terrorism, the case will move to what is known as the Channel programme. A panel of support workers including police and local authority staff then assess what support a person needs. Prevent has come under renewed scrutiny recently after it emerged that Parsons Green Tube bomber Ahmed Hassan was referred to the scheme. Police said he duped support workers by 'appearing to engage with the programme' when all the time he was plotting to cause carnage. Staff from various agencies met him several times between February 2016 and September 2017, and he received 'extensive support' in mental health and education, but was not deterred from his murderous plans.

A total of 5,738 individuals were referred to Prevent. This is the lowest referrals within a year down from previous low of 6,093; The Education sector accounted for the highest number of referrals: 1,887 [33%]';

Most individuals referred were male: 4,991 [87%], and the majority of referrals were for people aged 20 years or under 3,343 [58%].

4,407 were deemed not suitable for further action and left the process. Most were directed to other services for support.

The number of individuals discussed at a Channel panel were 1,320 - and adopted as a Channel case 561 - are the highest recorded ever;

Of the 561 Channel cases, the most common were cases referred because of concerns about right-wing radicalisation 254 [45%], followed by Islamist radicalisation 210; [37%].

Some 189 people were referred twice and nine more were flagged up three times;

Today's report found that the number of people referred to its £40million Prevent programme, designed to divert people away from terrorism before they offend through education, has dropped to 5,738 from just over 6,000.

Of these, 1,389 referrals were for concerns over right-wing extremism - a 6 per cent rise from 1,312 in the previous period and almost double the 759 flagged up in 2015/16.

Islamist concerns accounted for a larger proportion of referrals but the number dropped 56 per cent from 3,197 to 1,404, according to the Home Office figures.

2,169 people had a 'mixed, unstable or unclear ideology' while 776 were referred over other concerns like international and left-wing radicalisation.

1,563 children and teenagers under the age of 15 were referred to Prevent, of which 234 were girls.

Of those 5,738 cases - 561 were moved on to its more serious Channel scheme because the cases revealed genuine 'risk of radicalisation exists' - the highest number in history - up 48 per cent from the previous high of 378.

And 254 cases referred were about concerns over right-wing radicalisation compared to 210 cases linked to Islamist radicalisation - the first time ever right-wing cases have come out on top.

Most referrals came from education bodies and the police.

Some 189 people were referred twice and nine more were flagged up three times.

The largest proportion of individuals were from the North East (17%) and London (16%).

Thomas Mair murdered Labour MP Jo Cox after becoming obsessed with far-Right material

A gunman shot 51 people dead when he attacked during mosques' Friday prayers in Christchurch, New Zealand. (Pictured: Muslim worshipper mourning at Al Noor mosque that was targeted)

Darren Osborne carried out the terror attack near Finsbury Park mosque after reading anti-Islamic material online

Last week it emerged that police smashed an alleged Christchurch-inspired Right-wing terror plot on the eve of the General Election.

Officers from Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism command swooped in a dawn raid on an address in Luton and arrested a Polish man suspected of plotting an atrocity.

He is said to have been inspired by the gun rampage on two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, in March.

Brenton Tarrant faces trial next year accused of live streaming himself on Facebook while he shot dead 51 people during the mosques' Friday prayers.

Police have described the rise of the far-Right as the fastest-growing terrorist threat in the UK.

The emergence of a terrorist plot so close to Christmas will raise concern about the decision to downgrade the threat level from severe to substantial for the first time in five years.

Home Secretary Priti Patel announced the decision, by the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre, at the start of November.

The 'substantial' threat level continues to indicate that an attack might 'occur without further warning', she said.

On November 29, convicted terrorist Usman Khan, 28, went on a stabbing spree, fatally wounding two Cambridge University graduates and injuring several other people on London Bridge

The highest number of Prevent cases were in the north-east of England, followed by London and then the north-west

Right-wing extremism cases have outnumbered Islamist cases for the first time, Home Office figures show

These are the geographical breakdowns of cases based on the type of extremism reported

In September Britain's top counter-terrorism officer, Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Neil Basu, revealed police and the security services were carrying out 80 investigations to stop violence fuelled by ideologies such as white supremacism and Islamophobia.

He estimated that a quarter of all terrorism arrests in the past year were linked to far-right violence.

The far-right caseload of counter-terrorism police has jumped from 6 per cent to 10 per cent in the last two years.

Mr Basu said a third of all terror plots to kill in Britain since 2017 - seven out of 22 - were by those driven by extreme-right causes.

He revealed far right groups had copied tactics from Islamic State and become very slick in their recruitment materials online.

Methods have mimicked those seen in jihadist plots, including knife attacks and trying to create improvised explosive devices.

Security Minister Brandon Lewis said: 'We are determined to take whatever action necessary to keep people safe from all forms of terrorism. That means toughening up sentences for serious terrorists and making sure they stay in prison for longer. But it also means preventing our vulnerable young people getting drawn into terrorism in the first place, by ensuring they are offered early intervention support through Prevent and Channel.

'Today's Prevent figures show the threat from the far right continues, a problem seen across Europe, Australia, New Zealand and the US. We have already taken robust action in response including banning neo-Nazi terrorist group National Action in 2016 and there have been several successful prosecutions against its members.

'These statistics show that Prevent is improving, with education, health and social care staff increasingly recognising Prevent as part of their safeguarding responsibilities. However, we must continue to work closely with communities to build resilience to the poisonous ideologies of the far right and Islamist extremism, which have no place in Britain.'

Boris Johnson promises to lock up terrorists for AT LEAST 14 years: PM promises to make prison sentences longer after London Bridge attack

Boris Johnson today promised to lock up the worst terrorist offenders for longer as he set out his plans to get tougher on crime.

The new Tory majority government will end the early release of dangerous terrorists and introduce minimum 14-year jail terms.

Meanwhile, those terrorists who are deemed to no longer be dangerous will have the point at which they are eligible for release moved from halfway through their sentence to two-thirds.

Announcing the plan in the Lords this morning, the Queen said: 'My Government is committed to a fair justice system that keeps people safe.

'My ministers will establish a Royal Commission to review and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the criminal justice process.

'New sentencing laws will ensure the most serious violent offenders, including terrorists, serve longer in custody.'

Usman Khan, (pictured) an extremist convicted of a plot to blow up the Stock Exchange, stabbed two people to death and injured three others near London Bridge after being freed early from jail

The Queen set out the government's agenda in a scaled back ceremony in the House of Lords, without the usual pomp. She was accompanied by Prince Charles

Mr Johnson had made the commitments during the general election campaign in the wake of the London Bridge terror attack.

Usman Khan, who was shot dead by police last week for murdering Saskia Jones, 23, and Jack Merritt, 25, in a knifing rampage, was convicted along with a gang of eight other terrorists in 2012.

But the 28-year-old terrorist, who also planned to assassinate Boris Johnson, was given early release in December last year even though he was judged as posing a risk of serious harm to the public.

The 80-seat majority Mr Johnson won at the ballot box last week means the Prime Minister can now deliver on his promises.

The government said that its Counter Terrorism (Sentencing and Release) Bill will 'give the public greater confidence that the sentences served by terrorists reflect the severity of their offending and the risk they present'.

The legislation will remove the possibility of early release from custody for terrorists who receive an Extended Determinate Sentence.

It will also introduce measures to strengthen supervision of terrorist offenders when they are released from prison.

Saskia Jones, 23, and Jack Merritt, 25, were killed by Khan in an assault at an event for reformed prisoners

The government said that its Counter Terrorism (Sentencing and Release) Bill will 'give the public greater confidence that the sentences served by terrorists reflect the severity of their offending and the risk they present'

The government will bring forward a separate Sentencing Bill to introduce tougher punishments for the most serious violent and sexual offenders.

This will change the automatic release point from halfway to two thirds for the worst adult offenders.

It will also extend the circumstances in which convicted murderers can be given whole life terms in prison, with a particular focus on making sure people who have killed children are never released.

A new Serious Violence Bill will 'ensure the police have the powers they need to keep weapons off our streets' in a direct assault on the scourge of knife crime.

The legislation will seek to deter people from carrying weapons by introducing new court orders to target known knife carriers.

The orders will make it easier for the police to stop and search people who have already been convicted of a knife crime offence.

A Police Powers and Protections Bill will strengthen the law to give greater protection to police drivers involved in high speed chases.