The King and Queen of Bhutan have revealed they are expecting their second child together.

King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, 39, made the announcement during a speech at the country's vibrant national day celebrations this week.

The couple, who married in 2011, already have a three-year-old son, Prince Jigme Namgyel Wangchuck, the heir to the Bhutanese throne, who attended the festivities with his parents.

The King and Queen of Bhutan announced they are expecting their second child together during national day celebrations this week. Pictured, Queen Jetsun Pema with three-year-old son Jigme Namgyel Wangchuck are resplendent in national dress at the festivities

King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck, 39, pictured with his son at the national day celebrations, announced their happy baby news in a speech addressing wide-ranging issues

The 112th national day celebrations took place at Changlimithang Stadium, in Thimphu.

The 112th national day celebrations took place at Changlimithang Stadium, in Thimphu, above

The new baby will follow the crown prince in the line of succession. However, if the child is a girl, she could be displaced by a future younger brother.

The 112th national day celebrations took place at Changlimithang Stadium, in Thimphu.

The King and Prince pose for photos with dragon mascots at the celebrations. The King's title, Druk Gyalpo, translates as Dragon King, while the prince's title means Dragon Prince

The new baby will follow the crown prince in the line of succession. However, if the child is a girl, she could be displaced by a future younger brother. Pictured, the prince at the festivities

The prince wore a traditional outfit and appeared on his best behaviour throughout the day

The stadium was filled with spectators who watched some 6,300 people who took part in performances and military displays in honour of the occasion, pictured

The stadium was filled with spectators who watched some 6,300 people who took part in performances and military displays in honour of the occasion.

Government workers, students, teachers and representatives from local media agencies were among those involved.

King Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck and Queen Jetsun Pema, 29, both looked resplendent in traditional dress for the public engagement.

The Queen, far left,watched on with members of the royal family as her husband delivered a speech. Her three-year-old son, just seen, stood patiently by his mother's side

The King delivered a speech to his subjects, in which he highlighted key aims for the future, including economic growth and investing in the youth during the celebration, pictured

Their son, affectionately known as the Dragon Prince, also wore a traditional outfit and appeared on his best behaviour throughout the day.

The King delivered a speech to his subjects, in which he highlighted key aims for the future, including economic growth, investing in the youth and harnessing the power and benefits of being a small country.

He also revealed a year-long national service will be introduced for 18 year olds from 2022.