Reverend Richard Coles (pictured above) has revealed that social media trolls have told him his civil partner David 'is in hell'

Former Strictly Come Dancing star Reverend Richard Coles has revealed that trolls have told him his civil partner David 'is in hell' after the vicar announced his death just two days ago.

The 57-year-old from Northampton said Christians had messaged him after his partner David Coles died after a long illness.

It comes after Richard, who also presents a show on BBC Radio 4, said scammers had set up a GoFundMe page for his late partner's funeral, using his mother's name Irene Oldham, in order to lure people in to parting with their cash.

Battling with the loss of his partner, Richard said most people had been kind, but that there had been a small percentage sending him abuse.

He said: '99.99999% loveliness from people and then a small but lively correspondence from Christians who wish me to know that D is in hell and I will follow. It's like the Khmer Rouge suddenly popping up in a stream of condolence.'

He later on added that he received a letter which read: 'Dear Mr Coles, I can't begin to tell you how happy I am to hear of the death of your partner...'

'The horrible letters: they don’t touch me. I am right now an expert in pain, the real kind, and these are paper darts among the incoming, and just leave me mildly curious about the state of mind of the writer. '

Richard tweeted out that there had been 'small lively correspondence from Christians'

Later on this morning Richard posted an example of the sort of issues he was having to deal with

Richard (right) said most people had been kind following the announcement that his partner (left) had died

The tweet received nearly 3,000 likes and many people hit back at the trolls and claimed 'they weren't real Christians'.

One user said: 'I don't think those people are really Christian'. Another added: 'Sadly some of the Christians I know, are the most unChristian people I know. Some'.

Richard entered into a civil partnership with David after the Church of England allowed it in 2005 - but they were celibate.

On Tuesday morning he revealed the news to his followers in a tweet which read: 'I'm very sorry to say that Rev David Coles has died. He had been ill for a while. Thanks to the brilliant teams who looked after him at Kettering General Hospital. Funeral details to follow'.

He then quoted Isaiah 60:20: 'The Lord shall be thine everlasting light, and the days of thy mourning shall be ended', but did not reveal the cause of David's death.

Reverend Richard Coles has revealed his partner David (left) died in a moving tweet posted earlier this week

Richard often spoke with love about David and their life together, particularly on his Radio 4 show: Saturday Live. But their dream of retiring to Scotland with their four dogs will now not happen.

Reverend David Coles with Mary Berry recently - he met Richard when he went to watch him preach and they were in a celibate relationship

While David was ordained, he was no longer working as a priest.

David Coles had suffered with illness for more than a year, according to parishioners, who were told this weekend that his condition had deteriorated, however, they were shocked when news of his death was broken.

The cause of David's illness has not been widely circulated in the parish, according to those who attend St Mary's.

David would tweet about his partner from time to time, revealing a loving, close relationship between the pair.

Last month he wrote: 'And he always hogs the remote come rain or shire and it always has to have guns and violence. Don't think I'm not on to you Coles!'

In another tweet he wrote: 'Today's mantra: 'Do small things with great love'. Mother Teresa.'