Rebecca Hanway, 29, leaves Bolton Crown Court in Greater Manchester yesterday

A benefits office manageress who exploited her job to plunder £18,000 in Universal Credit payments and said she did it because other welfare scroungers had been 'getting away' with similar scams has avoided jail.

Rebecca Hanway, 29, used an unique code she was given by her superiors to divert payments into her own bank account by inventing claims she had twin children and also by hijacking the names of friends, family and strangers.

The mother-of-one from Bickershaw, Greater Manchester, pocketed £18,260 over seven months before an audit uncovered the irregularities in payments and found they were linked to her.

Hanway later claimed she had spent all the money on household bills after getting into debt over a house belonging to her mother-in-law. She also claimed claimants at her office had been stealing payments 'without repercussions'.

At Bolton Crown Court, Hanway, who worked as an administrative officer case manager at the Ashton-in-Makerfield Universal Credit office in Wigan, wept as she pleaded guilty to nine charges of fraud by abuse of position between September 2018 and April 2019.

She was given a 16-month prison sentence suspended for two years after a judge was told she was the sole carer for her 11-year-old daughter.

Hanway (pictured) claimed she had spent all the money on household bills after getting into debt over a house belonging to her mother-in-law

She was also told to complete 200 hours in unpaid work. She is now working as an administrative assistant at a warehouse and said she will pay back the stolen cash.

The offences began in September 2018, three months after Hanway's fiancee was released from prison after being jailed for beating up a man with an exhaust pipe.

Andrea Locke, prosecuting, said: 'She held a position where she had a unique number she could use to access the computer and amongst other things, authorise payments. The different offences deal with different claims for different amounts.

'She abused the position by accessing her computer, using the unique access code to misrepresent her own position claiming for Universal Credit.

'She changed the bank account details to her own with a number of other claims and using the fictitious accounts of other people known to her. These were real people's names who she used to obtain initial payments of Universal Credit.

'She has one child but on some occasions she claimed to have twin children. The different information she had used was fictitious.

'She received the initial payment of between £1300 and £1500. She had then gone back into the system and cancelled any ongoing payments.

'The general modus operandi was that she would get the payment on false information on a number of fictitious claims in the name of others.

Hanway was given a 16-month prison sentence suspended for two years after a judge was told she was the sole carer for her 11-year-old daughter

'There was a level of sophistication. Five were real people who actively had claims in the system, some of these people were known to her, such as her partner. It is clear their claims were legitimate but they enabled her to do what she did.

'Her bank details were put in for those fictional people and it was linked back to her. She was utilising her skills generally to make a gain for herself.

'There was an internal review and that led onto an audit and her accessing of her own Universal Credit account initially rang alarm bells and then further checks were made. This was over a sustained period of time.'

In mitigation, Hanway's defence lawyer Adam Brown said: 'There is no evidence as to where the money has gone but there has been debts.

'There was a financial partnership which was born out of her accommodation and where she was living, this was a house which belonged to her mother in law and she paid over £500 rent per month to live in this house.

'She says she has a considerable amount of debt still owed. Those financial difficulties had been exacerbated when her then boyfriend, now husband, was given a significant sentence of imprisonment which left her in the position where she was forced back into being a single mother.

'He was released in June 2018 and during that time he doesn't seem to have been supportive in respect of the position she has been in. She started committing these offences three months after he was released from prison.

'There are difficulties she has had with him living at the house and the issues with social services and her 11-year-old daughter.

Hanway worked as an administrative officer case manager at the Ashton-in-Makerfield Universal Credit office in Wigan, Greater Manchester

'Earlier this year that he was asked to leave the address because of a serious incident between him and her daughter in which he smashed a car window.

'Social services asked him to leave but have now allowed him to return. The situation with the relationship is somewhat more stable than what it was. There has been some history of domestic issues causing the court appearance and police coming to the home address.

'He blamed her for the position they were in. She felt an extreme pressure to sort that position out. The bailiffs have been coming regularly to the house.

'At work she saw some people doing it and didn't see them having any repercussions, so did it and she was successful. She changed it to her account. She was taking payments around once a month, almost doubling her salary.

'The breadcrumbs went back to her. She just transferred the money into her bank account. When the irregularities were unearthed it went back to her.

'Since her arrest there has been disruption cause to the household and shame has been brought upon her family. She still found the tenacity to get herself another job, not as well paid but she has impressed them and a more permanent position is available to her now.

'There has been no minimisation of this, there has been public shame. She has genuine remorse and she is the sole carer for her 11 year old daughter.The money is being deducted from her benefits to repay the money back.'

Sentencing, the judge Recorder Katherine Pierpoint told Hanway: 'You were given a trusted role - a role which enabled you to go within the system and transfer money to yourself, because that's what you did. You had a unique number which made you able to authorise payments time and time again, making misrepresentations in a bid to steal money that was not yours.

'You made fictitious claims of having twin children to get the payments. You did that and you continued to do it again and again. There were five other people, some known to you, some you didn't know, who you used to get money from the Universal Credit and you put your own personal bank details into the system.

'You know these are serious offences. There has been a serious breach of trust, trust put in you as an employee of that particular government department. It's extremely sad to find a woman such as you before these courts facing such serious allegations. It is not just you suffering as a result of this, but also your own family, in particular your daughter who is only 11, who you have sole care of.

'Looking at your character references you are clearly somebody who is loved, you are well loved by those who know you. You have got a job. You are a hard worker which you have shown as after these instances you have gone back out there and found yourself more employment. You got yourself into debt but the fact is a lot of people get into debts and they don't go out committing serious offences such as this.

'You got yourself into financial difficulties and because of this you ended up stealing time and time again. You have shown genuine remorse. There is a low risk of re-offending. You have lost your good character and your good name and you will never get that back.

'The purpose of sentencing is to punish, rehabilitate and deter others. You said you had seen benefit claimants making false claims with no repercussions, but the fact is, stealing money from the public does have repercussions.

'These are serious matters. There was a serious abuse of trust. You were always going to be found out. You have been extremely lucky, and I hope this court will never see you again.'