They recently returned from a sun-drenched getaway to Turks And Caicos with their unlikely family friend - Hollywood superstar Millie Bobby Brown.

And Jess Wright was clearly feeling nostalgic as she shared a throwback bikini-clad photo from their getaway on Thursday while her sister Natalya posted new snaps from her current ski trip in Chamonix, France.

The TOWIE star, 34, took to Instagram to upload a sultry photo of herself in Turks And Caicos captioned: 'The sky’s the limit,' followed by a blue heart.

Throwback: Jess Wright, 34, was clearly feeling nostalgic as she shared a throwback bikini-clad photo from her recent getaway to Turks And Caicos on Thursday

In the snap, Jess looked sensational as she showcased her toned figure in a white strapless bikini as she posed to the side with her arms in the air.

Making sure her swimwear coordinated, the reality star teamed her look with a white pedicure and matching coloured hair scrunchie which she used to tieback her brunette locks.

Meanwhile, despite only just returning from Turks And Caicos, Natalya revealed that she has already jetted off on another holiday to Chamonix, France, for a ski trip.

Jet-setter: While her younger sister Natalya, 19, posted new swimwear snaps from her current ski trip in Chamonix, France

Idyllic: Yet despite the snowy weather, the 19-year-old Instagram sensation couldn't resist showing off her toned figure in a skimpy bikini

Yet despite the snowy weather, the 19-year-old Instagram sensation couldn't resist showing off her toned figure in a skimpy bikini.

Natalya joked that she had ditched her ski wear for swimwear as she posed up a storm in a tiny white frilly bikini with a dressing gown draped over her arms in front of the stunning snowy scenery.

The younger sister of Mark Wright also shared a collection of bikini-clad photos of herself in the ski chalet's hot tub and sauna.

Spa day: Natalya joked that she had ditched her ski wear for swimwear as she posed up a storm in a tiny white frilly bikini with a dressing gown draped over her arms in front of the stunning snowy scenery

Relax: The younger sister of Mark Wright also shared a collection of bikini-clad photos of herself in the ski chalet's hot tub and sauna

'Chalet girl': Natalya also posted a picture of herself all glammed up as she revealed she felt like a 'chalet girl' in a metallic copper mini dress, cream cardigan and white heeled ankle boots

Natalya also posted a picture of herself all glammed up as she revealed she felt like a 'chalet girl' in a metallic copper mini dress, cream cardigan and white heeled ankle boots.

It comes after Jess and Natalya shared yet more throwback photos from their Turks And Caicos getaway with Millie Bobby Brown, 15, earlier this week.

The girls looked as though they had a whale of a time as they sunbathed in a variety of bikinis and indulged in a little horseriding, posting the snaps on Instagram.

Friends in high places: Jess (left) and her sister Natalya have been sharing more super glam photos from their recent sunshine getaway with unlikely pal Millie Bobby Brown (right) in Turks And Caicos

Went for a dip: Natalya looked incredible in a range of bikinis she modelled throughout her trip

In one sweet snap, Jess shared a picture of herself and Millie looking super glam. Jess wore a white bikini top and frilly skirt and Millie wore a pretty pink dress.

In another, Jess wrote that they were 'spirit animals' as they prepared to paint the town red.

Jess captioned the image with the words: 'Magical nights.'

She added: 'There are not enough words to sum up this holiday but the only way to express how I feel about it is, life isn’t about places or things that take your breath away; it’s about the people, & the people on this trip are forever in my heart.'

Work it: Natalya also wrote on one of her snaps: 'I think this is my last bikini pic of 2019 but I can’t make any promises Swipe for moreeeee'

Loving life: Alongside this picture, Jess wrote that they were having 'magical nights'

Natalya also shared some super glam swimwear shots as she topped up her tan on the beach.

She wrote on one of them: 'I think this is my last bikini pic of 2019 but I can’t make any promises Swipe for moreeeee.'

The unlikely friendship between the Wright sisters and Millie began when she crossed paths with Jess' older brother Mark, then a presenter for US TV show, Extra.

Glam: Natalya also wore this strapless number as she wrote about taking 'afternoon naps'

Walking tall: The girls treated the holiday like one big fashion parade as they found the perfect spots for photo opportunities

In October 2017, former reality star Mark, 32, welcomed the 'incredibly talented' actress for a segment on his show at Universal Studios Florida. Mark really hit it off with the teen star after bonding about all things British.

Talking about the unlikely friendship with the Stranger Things star, Jess recently told MailOnline: 'We're family friends, we always catch up and go out for dinner!'

Jess is currently gearing up for a Christmas at home with her business owner boyfriend William Lee-Kemp.

Talking about their relationship, she gushed to MailOnline: 'Yeah, it's going so well, he’s lovely. We get on so well and it’s just a refreshingly lovely relationship.'

Her happy place: Jess also enjoyed a spot of horseriding as she waded through the water

'Life experience I'll never forget': Jess and Natalya made some really special memories together on the trip

The reality star added that she's happy to be spending the festive period with a boyfriend.

She enthused: 'We've got a few things planned, it’s actually really nice to be spending Christmas with someone this year and someone that I love so much.'

Jess and William only went public with their romance this summer during a romantic getaway together.

Splish splash: Jess looked a total vision as she rode a horse called Patches through the water