John Terry and wife Toni, moved into the property in July

John Terry is planning to renovate his new 18th century £4.35million mansion by replacing his conservatory with a purpose-built gym and lounge.

The retired England and Chelsea star moved into the country pad - which boasts eight bedrooms, four reception rooms and a library - in July.

However Mr Terry, who is the current assistant coach of Aston Villa, has already got an extension planned, and is set to add a 1722 sq ft workout area and lounge by knocking down a conservatory.

He is also demolishing a garage despite having a fleet of Ferraris - including a 275 GTB and an Enzo - worth £4million.

The planning applications for the property in Cobham, Surrey were submitted last Wednesday.

Mr Terry's planning agents, Paul Dickinson and Associates, said in planning documents to his local authority: 'These extensions/alterations are not prominent locations and not visible from public viewpoints.

'They are both appropriate designs which reflect the character of the house.

'They are situated on the east side of the house between the house and other buildings on the site (e.g. the stables, garage block and office/store building) and away from the open garden which looks out towards open countryside to the west.

The couple have bought and moved into this seven bedroom home in Cobham, Surrey, for £4.35million

Planning documents showing John Terry's home renovation plans. The plans have now been submitted to the council

'The proposed extension and alterations would result in an additional 160.4 sq metres floor area which represents a 21 per cent increase over the original building.

'This is well below the 30 per cent rule of thumb which is typically used to determine whether a proposal represents a disproportionate addition.'

They added: 'The current conservatory, albeit of high quality, is not fit for purpose.

'It is too hot in the summer and too cold in the winter, rendering it almost unusable.

The materials do not compliment, enhance of match the rest of the building.

Terry, who captained England during a glittering career, has set himself up as a successful property developer since hanging up his boots and becoming Aston Villa's assistant manager

'By constructing the new extension out of materials to match, brick walls and tiled roof, we can provide accommodation that can be enjoyed all of the year and meet the specific needs of the owners and their family.'

The house - built in 1752 - is a far cry from his previous, new build, modern palatial homes.

The property boosts essential mod cons for multi-millionaire footballers like an outdoor swimming pool and tennis courts.

It is understood Mr Terry and wife Toni have set aside £1.8million to 'do up' the lavish home.

The property - which stands in almost eight acres of wooded gardens and parkland - was originally built to house the chaplain for the Earl of Ellesmere.

It was purchased by Australian couple, Glen and Mary-Claire Travers in 1993 who were the previous owners.

The property with a stunning sitting room looking out onto the vast grounds boasts mod cons and essentials

An aerial view of Mr Terry's property showing the renovation plan's for the country pad he shares with his wife Toni, in Cobham, Surrey

When it was put on the market, property agent Savills described it as an 'elegant and imposing period country house.'

The property description reads: 'It's a magnificent 18th century brick and flint country house which has been sensitively extended over the years.

'The property is accessed via a private drive and is well positioned within its land to take advantage of the views over the gardens.

'Unusually, for a building of this age and stature, it is not listed.

'The original part of the house was built in 1752 and later extensions were added in the 20th century.

'The current owners have renovated and refurbished the property during their ownership, reinstating many of the period style features.'

The hallway (pictured) of the brick and flint house has a huge sweeping staircase, an ornate stone fireplace and antique furniture

It is understood that two designers have been employed to renovate the property, with the re-design including a lavish and bespoke Clive Christian kitchen.

The property in Surrey is not far from their Cobham home which they spent years renovating.

Epsom and Sandown racecourses are not far, and the couple will watch polo at the Guards Polo Club nearby.

The property is Terry's fifth in the area after having involvement with four other properties on the nearby Crown Estate in Oxshott, one of Britain's most expensive areas to live.

Firstly, in 2002, Terry purchased a six-bed family pad in 2013 before selling it for £5million in 2013.

He then acquired golfer Colin Montgomerie's pad for £6.5 million in 2014 which boasts a two-bed staff annexe, four reception rooms and six-bathrooms.

The former footballer, who is now assistant manager with Premier League team Aston Villa, has bought up a number of properties in the area and made profits on them

Developing a flair for property development, he then built a nine-bedroom white mansion in 2011 to live in with Toni and twin children.

However, before they had the chance to move in, they received an out of the blue offer for £16 million from Sultan Qaboos bin Said, the Sultan of Oman.

Shortly before buying his latest mansion, he then purchased the property, Tandem House, next door for £4.5 million in 2017.

But shortly afterwards, the 38-year-old star lodged plans to demolish the property and build two luxury houses in its place - one six-bed, and one four-bed.

Both properties will include a kitchen diner, a family room, a drawing room, a dining room, a bar, a dressing room and a private lounge, a gallery, a games room and a terrace while the six-bed property will also include a pool and a gym.

Guildford Borough Council will consider the plans on a date to be confirmed.