A mum-of-three who survived a horrific car crash has given birth to miracle twins just in time for Christmas despite being left infertile from her injuries.

Danielle Bartley-Mould, 39, from Market Weighton in York, needed her right arm amputated in a bid to save her life after contracting sepsis following a car accident in 2014 - she also suffered a broken neck and spine.

The impact of the crash had also damaged her Fallopian tubes, but it wasn't until last July - after not having a period for 18 months - that the foster carer was told she is infertile.

Danielle, and her husband, Tony, 59, spent their savings on two rounds of IVF and they are now over the moon to celebrate Christmas with their newborn twins Ava and Frankie, who were born November 22.

'This time last year Tony and I were devastated as the first round of IVF failed but now, we couldn't be happier with our twins,' she explained.

Danielle Bartley-Mould, 39, from Market Weighton in York, who survived a horrific car crash, has given birth to miracle twins just in time for Christmas despite being left infertile from her injuries. Pictured, with husband Tony, 59, and their twins Ava and Frankie

The mother-of-three needed her right arm amputated in a bid to save her life after contracting septicaemia following a car accident in 2014 - she also suffered a broken neck and spine. Pictured, with her baby scan before the birth of her twins

The couple spent their savings on two rounds of IVF and they are now over the moon to celebrate Christmas with their newborn twins, Ava and Frankie (pictured)

'It was the best feeling ever when we could take them home after ten days in the special baby care unit at York hospital - I will forever be grateful to the care provided by the staff. '

'They were born six weeks early at 34 weeks as I'd gone into early labour at 32 weeks but the hospital staff were able to slow it down.'

She continued: 'It hasn't been easy looking after them without an arm but my son Ethan, 12, and partner Tony, who works in admin, have been incredibly helpful.

'Life isn't ever going to be easy with the way I am, but I am grateful to be alive.

'I can't change what's happened to me, but I can make an awful experience into a positive one by enjoying every moment with my three amazing children who I'm blessed to have.

'I have learnt to adapt and found new ways to do things. I use my knees to help me with changing and holding things in place as the baby wriggles around.

'I am lucky to have the support from Tony and Ethan who is already the best big brother and always offers me a hand with feeds and changing nappies.'

The couple spent £12,000 of their savings to fund one round of IVF in Cyprus last December which sadly failed and another in the UK which was a success.

Danielle said that while it hasn't been easy looking after the twins without an arm, her son Ethan, 12, and partner Tony, have been incredibly helpful. Pictured, Tony, Danielle, and Ethan

Speaking of their birth, Danielle said: 'It was the best feeling ever when we could take them home after ten days in the special baby care unit at York hospital.' Pictured, with her husband Tony and their twins, Ava and Frankie

During her pregnancy, Danielle was forced to use a wheelchair as the weight of the babies had a severe impact on her back which hasn't recovered since the accident. Pictured, with her miracle daughter, Ava

it wasn't until last July - after not having a period for 18 months - that the foster carer was told she is infertile. Pictured, Danielle's baby scan

Whilst pregnant, Danielle was forced to use a wheelchair as the weight of the babies had a severe impact on her back which hasn't recovered since the accident.

Danielle contracted sepsis when her arm hit the road of the crash, but it spread while surgeons tried to rebuild her arm after the accident which she says is the reason the entire limb was later removed.

She added: 'When someone tells you that you can't have children, it is heart-breaking.

'I was told by doctors it can take my body internally up to seven years to repair so the irregular periods weren't anything to worry about.

'But when I didn't have a period for 18 months, they did lots of tests and discovered both of my Fallopian tubes were so damaged beyond repair.

'I didn't realise how bad it was going to be carrying twins as my pregnancy with Ethan, 12, was easy.

'I was unable to take my usual pain relief, so the weight of the twins hit me hard and I couldn't walk but now the pain was totally worth it to see their perfect faces.

'Our family is now complete and I feel like the luckiest woman in the world.'

The mother-of-three was told by doctors it could take her body internally up to seven years to repair. Pictured, Danielle, Tony, and their twins Ava and Frankie