She saw the 16-year-old off to her Year 10 formal last month.

And now Melissa Doyle's daughter has marked another milestone moment - passing her driver knowledge test and receiving her license on her 16th birthday.

On Thursday, Natalie passed the exam and her mother proudly shared the moment on Instagram.

'Watch out world!' Former Sunday Night host Melissa Doyle proudly shared a photo of her daughter Natalie, 16, (pictured) after passing her learner driver's license on Thursday

In one photo, she posed behind her mother's Audi holding up her L plate.

The seasoned journalist wrote in the caption: 'She already borrows my heels & makeup, now she wants to borrow my car!'

'Happy 16th birthday to our sweet Talia. You make us laugh every day,' along with the hashtags '#sweet16, #learnerdriver, #timeflies.'

Proud mother: The seasoned journalist (pictured) wrote in the caption: 'She already borrows my heels & makeup, now she wants to borrow my car!'

Sweet 16: Melissa also shared another photo of Natalie holding up the L plate on her Instagram Story, along with the caption: 'Watch out world! #sweet16today, #learnerdriver'

She also shared another photo of Natalie holding up the L plate on her Instagram Story, along with the caption: 'Watch out world! #sweet16today, #learnerdriver'.

Last month Melissa sent her look-a-like daughter off to her Year 10 formal wearing an elegant satin navy dress.

Bursting with pride, the seasoned journalist wrote in the caption: 'Oh my gosh ... my baby girl just grew up!'

Another milestone! Last mother, Melissa proudly shared an Instagram post showing her look-a-like daughter (pictured) ready to go to her year 10 formal

The past few months have been emotional for Melissa following the final episode of current affairs program Sunday Night which she hosted since 2015.

The show's departure comes after average TV ratings in recent years.

There were also reports the Seven Network's budget from the program would be going towards the 2020 reboot of Big Brother.