A mother-of-one who was mortified when she couldn't squeeze into a size 20 outfit while shopping for her 2018 Christmas party has shed 6st to don a slinky size 10 dress for this year's do.

Shannon Smith, 22, from Doncaster, ballooned 17st after bingeing on three takeaway curries and kebabs a week after initially piling on the pounds when spending time at her son's bedside when he was born prematurely.

The NHS clerical worker got the motivation she needed to tackle her bulging waistline when a shopping trip to find an outfit for her work Christmas party last year ended in tears.

She has now dropped five dress sizes after learning to make healthy versions of her fast food favourites at home.

Shannon Smith, 22, from Doncaster, ballooned 17st (left) after bingeing on three takeaway curries and kebabs a week after initially piling on the pounds when spending time at her son's bedside when he was born prematurely. She has now dropped five dress sizes (right) after learning to make healthy versions of her fast food favourites at home

The NHS clerical worker got the motivation she needed to tackle her bulging waistline when a shopping trip to find an outfit for her work Christmas party last year ended in tears

Sobbing in the changing rooms as she tried and failed to fit into size 20 clothes, Shannon decided enough was enough.

After taking photos of herself then and there to document the starting point of her weight loss journey, Shannon vowed to ditch her daily snacking on crisps and chocolate and obsession with unhealthy fast food.

Using the Pinch Of Nom cookbook's famed 'fakeaway' recipes, 5ft 2in Shannon has got her weight down to a healthy 11stone without ever feeling like she's depriving herself of her favourite meals.

And this year, the mum's Christmas party shopping trip was filled with glee as Shannon was able to slip into a fitted strappy black midi dress with a side split.

SHANNON'S DIET BEFORE BREAKFAST: Bacon sandwich LUNCH: McDonald's Big Tasty meal with large chips and Coke DINNER: Indian ready meal boxes with curries, rice, onion bhajis and naan bread SNACKS: Crisps and family bar of chocolate

SHANNON'S DIET NOW BREAKFAST: Slimming World pancakes with low calorie syrup and light cream LUNCH: Chilli con carne or pulled pork with a big salad DINNER: Homemade KFC fakeaway or doner kebab SNACKS: None

Shannon said: 'Before going on this diet, I never cooked. I always ate simple things like freezer food, ready meals, beans on toast and takeaways.

'Now I do it all myself. I'm following recipes here there and everywhere. I use the fakeaway section so I still get to eat meals I had before.

'It feels like I'm still being naughty but I'm not. They're actually all really healthy. I love it. I never feel like I'm depriving myself of anything at all.

This year, the mum's Christmas party shopping trip was filled with glee as Shannon was able to slip into a fitted strappy black midi dress with a side split (pictured)

Sobbing in the changing rooms as she tried and failed to fit into size 20 clothes, Shannon decided enough was enough. After taking photos of herself then and there to document the starting point of her weight loss journey (left), Shannon vowed to ditch her daily snacking on crisps and chocolate and obsession with unhealthy fast food. She is pictured right after shedding six stone

Shannon, says at her biggest (pictured) her confidence was so low she never wanted to leave the house or go to the shops

'I don't feel like I've been on a diet. I haven't done any exercise just changed the way I eat and even then I still eat the same things, just healthy versions.

'It feels like I haven't tried to get slimmer, it's just happened and I am so much happier in myself now I've lost the weight.

'I am smiling all the time and I've never been as confident as I am now.

'At my biggest, my confidence was so low I never wanted to leave the house not even to go to the shops because I didn't want people to see me.

Shannon initially piled on the pounds when her son was in hospital. They are both pictured here now, happy and healthy

Shannon is pictured with her partner Andrew Maxey, 29, and his son Reuben, shortly after he was born

'I was always paranoid about what people thought of me and thought they were talking about me behind my back.

'I really excluded myself from everything.

'I had barely any photos of me and my son when he was little because I didn't want anybody knowing how much I had let myself go and how big I'd got. It's really upsetting.

'It's unreal how much my life has changed in such a short time.

Using the Pinch Of Nom cookbook's famed 'fakeaway' recipes, 5ft 2in Shannon has got her weight down to a healthy 11stone without ever feeling like she's depriving herself of her favourite meals. Pictured left is her homemade kebab and right her homemade KFC

Shannon learned to make healthy meals, including these Slimming World low calorie syrup and cream pancakes

Shannon learned how to make homemade curry instead of previously ordering it three times a week

'Going shopping for the Christmas do this year was the best feeling in the world. I was looking at myself in the mirror thinking 'is that really me?'.

'I actually enjoyed trying on outfits for my Christmas party rather than crying in the changing rooms because I couldn't find anything that looked nice and actually fit.'

Shannon started to pile on the pounds after the premature birth of her son Reuben Maxey, who will be two in January.

The mum and her partner Andrew Maxey, 29, found out they were expecting in August 2017 and at 27 weeks pregnant, Shannon was rushed for an emergency cesarean due to reduced movements.

Shannon started to pile on the pounds after the premature birth of her son Reuben Maxey, who will be two in January (right together) . The mum and her partner Andrew Maxey, 29, (left together) found out they were expecting in August 2017 and at 27 weeks pregnant, Shannon was rushed for an emergency cesarean due to reduced movements

Spending every day and night by her baby boy's bedside, Shannon found herself relying constantly on takeaways and ready meals and turning to crisps and chocolate for comfort

Due to his mum suffering from pre-eclampsia and a ruptured placenta, little Reuben was born weighing just 1lbs 8oz and had to spend the next two months in hospital.

Spending every day and night by her baby boy's bedside, Shannon found herself relying constantly on takeaways and ready meals and turning to crisps and chocolate for comfort.

After bringing Reuben home in April 2018, Shannon's bad eating habits continued as she struggled to balance being a new mum and caring for her son who was on 12 medications a day with finding time to shop and cook.

Due to his mum suffering from pre-eclampsia and a ruptured placenta, little Reuben was born weighing just 1lbs 8oz and had to spend the next two months in hospital

After bringing Reuben home in April 2018, Shannon's bad eating habits continued as she struggled to balance being a new mum and caring for her son who was on 12 medications a day with finding time to shop and cook. Reuben is pictured here in the hospital

Piling on the pounds, Shannon went from a small size 16 to a size 20 in the first year on her little boy's life, but knew she needed to change her ways so she could be the best mum for Reuben.

With her newfound confidence, fitness and love for home cooking, Shannon is now certain she can be a great role model for her son.

Shannon said: 'When Reuben was born he was so tiny and fragile. He was so poorly and we nearly lost him so many times.

'Some days you thought you had a baby, some days you didn't think you had a baby. It was like a cruel mind game.

'I was spending so much time in the hospital, all my meals were takeaways and ready meals or crisps and chocolate from the vending machines.

Shannon, pictured before her weight loss, said: 'I was spending so much time in the hospital, all my meals were takeaways and ready meals or crisps and chocolate from the vending machines'

Shannon added: 'I used to walk to the hospital which is up a hill and I'd be so out of breath when I got there but now I walk the same way for work and I can't understand why I used to pant so much.' Here she is pictured before losing weight

'When you're that down and depressed all you want to do is eat until your heart's content.

'I used to walk to the hospital which is up a hill and I'd be so out of breath when I got there but now I walk the same way for work and I can't understand why I used to pant so much.

'At my biggest, I never would have been able to run around with Reuben and keep up with him or even go on the long walks we enjoy now.

'I'm going to be such a good role model for him now. He loves our homemade meals, it's great.'