They might be older, but the cast of notorious reality show Jackass are clearly none the wiser after confirming plans for a fourth feature length film, some nine years after apparently giving up their hare-brained stunts for good.

Despite being well into their 40s, the cast, led by show creator Johnny Knoxville, are poised for a return to the big screen for the latest installment in their hugely popular franchise, with Deadline mooting March 5th 2021 as a potential release date.

That gives Knoxville, 48, and his team the better part of a year to devise a new series of wacky stunts and daredevil endeavours to entertain their loyal following.

Coming soon: They might be older, but the cast of notorious reality show Jackass are clearly none the wiser after confirming plans for a fourth feature length film

However the actor and performer admits he may well need some younger bodies to pull off some of the stunts if filming does finally get underway in the new year.

He told Entertainment Weekly: 'It's possible, for sure. It's not like we're saying no. If we did do a new one, we'd have to bring in some new younger guys - just to bring some fresh blood into it. But it's possible.

'I still write ideas down, just in case I get that twitch again. We're sitting on a ton of new ideas.

New addition: Despite being well into their 40s, the cast, led by show creator Johnny Knoxville, are poised for a return to the big screen for the latest installment in their hugely popular franchise

'There was so many that we didn't get to shoot for Jackass 3. We have more ideas than we could shoot for Jackass 4, I'll tell you that.'

Having moved on to broader acting roles since launching Jackass on MTV in 2000, Knoxville admitted he would find it hard to completely wash his hands of the franchise that helped make him a star.

He said: 'It's a comedy, but a few of my friends and family members are over that part of it. I totally understand where they're coming from.

Daring: The show and its subsequent three films saw the cast pulling off a series of ill-advised stunts

Rocket man: Knoxville, now 48, prepares for another dangerous stunt in 2006 film Jackass Number Two

'I've been doing this for so long, it's kind of tough to stop. I gotta take care of myself, but God, I don't want to stop. Am I sick?

'If we did Jackass 4, I would commit. But I may need to give my family a break for a second.'

Fans have been made to wait for another installment from the team after the success of third feature length film Jackass 3D, released in 2010.

Steady on: The actor and stuntman wrestles with an enormous python in another scene from the film

The show made stars of co-stars Knoxville, Bam Margera, Steve-O, Chris Pontius, Dave England, Ryan Dunn, Ehren McGhehey, Jason Acuña and Preston Lacy following its initial launch.

Despite the controversy surrounding its unorthodox stunts, it was an instant hit with fans, running for three years on MTV before branching into cinema with three spin-off films.

However there have been a series of tragedies and setbacks since final film Jackass 3D 's release.

Long time coming: Fans have been made to wait for another installment from Knoxville and his team after the success of third feature length film Jackass 3D, released in 2010

In 2011 original cast-member Dunn was tragically killed when his Porsche 911 GT3 veered off the road at high speed, hit a tree and burst into flames, just nine-days after his 34th birthday.

Meanwhile co-star Margera has entered rehab multiple times for drug, alcohol and mental health issues.

In 2019, he was ejected from a commercial airline after being deemed too drunk to fly.