LEGO have apologised and appreciate 'some of the language missed the mark'

Another responds suggesting they can go and bake muffins to hand out instead

In one of cartoons, a girl can be seen saying they'd 'stick out' amongst scientists

Mother, believed to be from the UK, has branded LEGO Friends magazine 'sexist'

A mother has slammed a children's LEGO magazine for being sexist after one of the cartoon strips said girls would 'stick out like sore thumbs' amongst scientists.

The woman in question, believed to be from the UK, wrote to LEGO and the group Let Toys Be Toys via Twitter and penned: ‘Both my children love Lego, and this makes me want to run in the opposite direction. Sort out your magazines, this is an embarrassment to your brand.’

She went on to explain how she saw the captions in a recent issue of LEGO Friends - a magazine targeted at girls between the ages of seven and 11.

In the scene, as first reported by the Metro, two characters can be seen having a conversation about heading into a meeting.

‘I think we should secretly go to the meeting too, just in case Carter tries something sneaky,’ says one, to which a second character responds:

‘You’re right, but we won’t be able to just walk right in. A group of girls among researchers – we’ll stick out like sore thumbs.’

A mother, believed to be from the UK, wrote to LEGO and the group Let Toys Be Toys via Twitter to explain her shock after seeing one of the characters in its LEGO Friends magazine say they would 'stick out' amongst scientists

Many have branded the magazine 'sexist' after the female characters decided to bake muffins instead (pictured)

Instead, the pair decide to dress up as bakers and hand out muffins as ‘nobody will suspect a thing.'

And it seems like the mother wasn't the only one concerned about the captions used in the children's magazine.

As reported by the publication, one person wrote: ‘How’s this for representation: Women can only hang out with scientific researchers if they pretend to be bakers…,’ while a second penned:

‘It’s so very nearly “let’s bake some cookies for the boys!”‘ ‘This is so disappointing to a lifetime Lego lover and female researcher…’

A third added: 'Thanks for the clear sexism. Women in tech, women in STEM and women in research already exist. We don’t have to make muffins anymore!’

FEMAIL approached LEGO for response and they commented: 'We believe that LEGO play is for everyone and our magazines should reflect that.'

'With this story we were trying to show that girls have lots of different interests and passions including science but we appreciate that some of the language we used missed the mark this time and we apologise.'

'We will certainly learn from this and do better in future.

In the comic strip, one of the girls ca be seen saying: 'Let's dress as bakers and give out muffins. Nobody will suspect a thing!'

It comes after a British father shared the charming letter his four-year-old daughter wrote to LEGO City magazine in April, after she spotted they'd only featured one woman speaking character - compared to 28 men.

Samuel West, 52, from London, shared a snap of the magazine and the letter his daughter wrote on social media, to wild praise.

Of the 29 speaking characters in the LEGO City magazine, there was just one female featured - and she only spoke once, to agree with another male character.

Other social media users praised the little girls attitude, and asked LEGO magazine to listen to her letter.

At the time, Lego told the MailOnline: 'We’re looking forward to receiving and replying to the letter. We have also extended an invitation to her and her dad to visit our office in London and share her great ideas, especially about LEGO City.'