A couple with a 24-year age gap, who fell in love after meeting on a mountain highway in their hometown, have shrugged off the backlash over their age difference.

Virginia Thomas, 35, first met Rick, 59, who she never imagined to fall head over heels for, when they ended up racing each other on a mountain highway in their hometown of Colorado.

Rick pulled over to ask the car enthusiast for her number and they have been inseparable ever since, eloping just six months later to Hawaii, in November 2018.

The newlyweds have been on the receiving end of backlash due to their 24-year age gap and strangers often mistake Virginia and her son Tyson, 17, to be his children.

'I am a car enthusiast so when I saw Rick's electric blue Dodge Viper coming up behind me, I just had to take a video,' Virginia said.

Virginia Thomas, 35, and Rick, 59, (pictured), from Colorado, who have a 24-year age gap have been inseparable since meeting in their hometown in 2018

The pair who eloped six months after they first met, swapped numbers after racing each other on a mountain highway for around half an hour

Virginia (pictured left with Rick) said she's never been happier, although the couple have received some backlash over their age difference

She continued: 'I just downshifted, smiled and started a game of cat and mouse.

'All I could see was his huge smile, I didn't see age - just a perfect smile.

'He sped off again and I followed, we had so much fun racing down the mountain highway.

'After half an hour, he made a phone signal with his hand and we both pulled over.

'I thought if I can have as much fun with a someone I've never talked to before, what would it be like if we actually met?

'He rang me after one week, we hit it off immediately and had so much in common.

Virginia (pictured right with Rick) who has been mistaken for the grandfather-of-eight's daughter, claims they didn't intend on a relationship when they first met

The car enthusiast (pictured with Rick and her son Tyson, 17) said they made the decision to elope while discussing going on holiday to Hawaii

A stranger at the airport once asked Rick why he allowed Virginia to snap at him, assuming that she was his daughter

'We didn't intend on a relationship, but it naturally happened.

'After six months, we knew we wanted to spend the rest of our lives together and were planning a holiday to Hawaii and decided we should elope.

'We have to laugh at rude strangers who ask Rick, "how old is your daughter?".

'Once we were in a rush at the airport and I was flustered and snapped at Rick, as couples do and a stranger said: "Are you going to let your daughter speak to you like that?".

'We burst out laughing, people find it so hard to believe that we are together but age really doesn't matter.

Virginia (pictured with Rick) admits she hates it when people stare and talk behind their back although she knows that she shouldn't care

Rick (pictured with Virginia) said they have a deep connection and he's able to talk to the 35-year-old about anything

'I hate it when people stare and talk behind our backs but I shouldn't care as I am happy and ultimately that is all that matters.'

Grandfather-of-eight, Rick who is an entrepreneur has been married twice before but says his relationship is 'healthier' than previous.

He said: 'There is a deep connection that we both feel for each other and our views and thinking are alike - I can talk to her about anything.

'Virginia keeps me young; she is adventurous and always fun to be around.

'She motivates me to keep in shape so we can share our life together for a long time.

The 59-year-old (pictured right with Virginia) believes Virginia keeps him young because she's adventurous and always fun to be around

Rick (pictured with Virginia) who says Virginia motivates him to keep in shape, said he's found true love despite their 24-year age gap

'I have found true love despite the age gap.'

Virginia believes the only difference with their relationship is the 'family dynamic' as Rick has a son older than her.

She adds: 'I was apprehensive about meeting his children after four months of dating because one is 39 and the other 34.

'It must have been difficult for them to accept and we are still working on this.

'My family were excited for us both and weren't phased by the age gap.'

Virginia (pictured with her son Ty and Rick) admits she was apprehensive about meeting her husband's children as one is 39 and the other 35