If you're looking for a gift for someone who really enjoys watching television, we have great news. You can deepen their love for TV this Christmas with the Fire TV Stick with 4K Ultra HD – now with 20 per cent off as part of Amazon's Last Minute Christmas Deals event.

The popular 4K streaming media player has it all – access to every single streaming service you can imagine, stunning picture quality, Alexa-enabled voice remote and much more.

Plus you can snap it up now for a reduced price of £39.99. And if you're an Amazon Prime member, you'll also get free delivery on the Fire TV Stick with 4K Ultra HD.

Give the gift of great TV shows this Christmas with the Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Ultra HD

The mega retailer has cut the price of the Fire TV Stick with 4K Ultra HD from £49.99 to £39.99, reducing the smart home device by £10.

This streaming stick can turn any old TV into a smart one that can access and play all your favourite videos, movies and shows from Amazon Prime Video, Netflix, BBC, Disney Plus, YouTube, and more in brilliant 4K Ultra HD and Dolby Vision, HDR, and HDR10+.

Fire TV is also compatible with Alexa voice controls on other Amazon products, like an Echo Dot. You can also launch shows by simply pressing the voice control button on the remote and issue voice commands such as 'play The Grand Tour' into the integrated microphone.

The Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K Ultra HD boasts an impressive average star rating of 4.7 out of 5 with over 15,500 reviews on Amazon. More than 80 per cent of reviewers were extremely happy with their purchase, rating the device five stars and describing it as an excellent product for the price.

Enjoy favourites from BBC iPlayer, Netflix, Prime Video, YouTube, ITV Hub, All 4, Disney, Curzon and others

One shopper who rated the Fire TV Stick 4K five stars wrote: 'Watching movies and videos in full 4K HDR with the best, cinema quality picture and sound is truly amazing.

'I've been watching movies and videos mainly on Netflix and Amazon Prime, without any lag or issues. The stick is so nippy, easy to browse, and to use.'

One reviewer loved how responsive the smart device is. They wrote: 'Top bit of kit very fast and responsive. Redesigned remote you can now control the TV on off and volume plus it can be connected through the alexa app to your dot for voice control... very happy.'

Amazon subscription deals Amazon Music Unlimited 4 months, now £0.99 (was £9.99 pm) Amazon is giving UK music lovers the chance to stream four months of Amazon Music Unlimited service for under one pound (that’s a saving of nearly £39). You don't need to be a Prime member to take advantage of this amazing deal, but this trial promotion is only available for new subscribers. Offer valid till January 6th 2020. View offer Premier League live on Prime Video 20 Premier League games will be live and exclusive on Prime Video this December. For the first time ever in the UK all games on the 26 and 27 December will be shown. Existing Amazon Prime customers will be able to access these Premier League fixtures for free. Start your 30 day free trial now (£7.99 pm after trial period). View offer

Check out our discount section for Christmas deals and offers.

MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.