Jennifer Love Hewitt hosted a fun-filled holiday party for her family and friends on Wednesday.

The actress, 40, was spotted picking up some candy cane shaped balloons in Santa Monica in preparation for her bash, before sharing a look at the festivities on social media.

The 9-1-1 star got into the Christmas spirit in a Santa Claus embellished T-shirt and jeans, embracing a low-key look as she ran errands.

Getting into the festive spirit: Jennifer Love Hewitt hosted a fun-filled holiday party for her family and friends on Wednesday, and was seen picking up themed balloons in Santa Monica ahead of the event

Jennifer kept her 757k followers updated about her antics, explaining she had a 'little holiday gathering for kids and the young at heart'.

Guests were treated to Grinch themed biscuits and beautifully decorated candy apples, donuts and cakes.

She gave her house a holiday makeover, dressing up stools in white faux fur and creating mini Santa party hats for attendees.

Fun: Jennifer kept her 757k followers updated with her antics, explaining she had a 'little holiday gathering for kids and the young at heart'

Sweet treats: Guests were treated to Grinch themed biscuits and beautifully decorated candy apples, donuts and cakes

Going all out: She gave her house a holiday makeover, dressing up stools in white faux fur and creating mini Santa party hats

Festive sparkle: The brunette beauty shared a video of herself wearing a pair of dazzling wreath shaped earrings

Jennifer explained: 'Tonight we had a little holiday gathering for kids and the young at heart. We wore pajamas, had food, drinks and a lot of laughter and love.

'Couldn’t be more grateful. Thank you @dipd_n_dripd @teakandlace and @casamigos for helping us take the little gathering to a cool new level. #holidayjunkie #holidaycheer #friends #momlife #gratitude #wifeylifey'.

The actress is a mother to Autumn, six, and Atticus, four, who she raises with her husband Brian Hallisay.

Jennifer explained: 'Tonight we had a little holiday gathering for kids and the young at heart. We wore pajamas, had food, drinks and a lot of laughter and love'

Cute: Jennifer hosted her friends and family and ensured the event catered to the children

Tucking in: Catering at her party included beautifully decorated cupcakes

Keeping to the theme: Party-goers were treated to Christmas themed cups and serviettes

The couple, who wed in 2013, recently celebrated their six-year marriage anniversary and Jennifer shared a sweet snap to mark the occasion.

She wrote: 'Happy Anniversary my love! The past 6 years have been amazing. Thank you for choosing me everyday.

'I will always choose you. Love you. #wifey #anniversary #6years #gratitude'.

Jennifer and Brian met on the set of her TV drama The Client List, in which he played her husband who leaves her in a financial mess when he abandons his family.

Family time: The actress is a mother to Autumn, six, and Atticus, four, who she raises with her husband Brian Hallisay

Brian has also joined her on her current TV show 9-1-1 as the abusive spouse of her alter-ego Maddie Buckley.

The Ghost Whisperer star described her family life as 'crazy and beautiful' in an interview with People.

'Every day brings something new and surprising and exciting. I wouldn't trade any of it for the world.

'It's so gratifying to see [my children] developing such a strong bond. My brother has always been an important part of my life and I'm so glad they will always have each other, too.'

Cute couple: Jennifer and Brian, who wed in 2013, recently celebrated their six-year marriage anniversary (pictured in August 2013)