Arsenal have postponed Thursday's scheduled pre-match press conference as Mikel Arteta looks set to be confirmed as the club's new manager this week.

Interim boss Freddie Ljungberg was set to answer questions on Thursday afternoon ahead of Arsenal's game at Everton on Saturday but that has now been postponed until Friday.

Arteta, the Manchester City coach and former Gunners captain, has been in talks with Arsenal this week and looks set to take over at the Emirates, with an announcement expected before the weekend.

Man City coach Mikel Arteta looks set to be confirmed as the new Arsenal manager this week

Interim boss Freddie Ljungberg has struggled in his five matches in charge of the first-team

Arteta was in the City dugout for their 3-1 win against Oxford United on Wednesday in the Carabao Cup quarter-finals.

However, City manager Pep Guardiola confirmed earlier in the week that the Spaniard was in talks with Arsenal about taking over on a permanent basis, following an underwhelming caretaker spell under Ljungberg.

Arsenal managing director Vinai Venkatesham and chief contract negotiator Huss Fahmy were pictured leaving the Manchester mansion of Arteta in the early hours of Monday morning.

The Gunners plan to finalise a compensation package, in the region of £2million, to poach City's assistant manager on Thursday.

But City sources labelled Arsenal's attitude 'shambolic' and 'disrespectful', although they will not stand in the Spaniard's way once compensation has been paid in full.

Pep Guardiola is reluctant to let Arteta go to Arsenal but admits he will be a good manager

Arteta has been getting performances out of City stars and is ready to step up as a manager

After City's Carabao Cup win against Oxford on Wednesday night, boss Pep Guardiola said of his No 2: 'I know him. He's been with us three and a half years. Nothing changes, we prepared the game as best as possible. I had 48 questions on Tuesday and 35 were about Mikel. I don't have any news. When there is news I will answer.'

Sportsmail revealed on Monday that Arteta, 37, wanted the Arsenal job and was prepared to take it immediately and reported on Wednesday that director Josh Kroenke, son of owner Stan, had returned to America to approve the move.

As Sportsmail disclosed, Arteta has been discussing a three-and-a-half-year contract, worth close to the £5m-per-season Emery earned.

The deal was effectively completed on Wednesday after the club's former midfielder officially informed City of his wish to embark on a management career.