An Australian wine company has analysed the wine preferences of customers based on their star sign to inspire people to experiment with new flavours this Christmas.

After going through the customer data from the past 12 months, the team at Cellarmasters found there were clear trends based on birth dates.

Pinot Noir is a favourite amongst Virgos but the least favoured by Aries, while Mediterranean drops like Sangiovese are preferred by Leos and Geminis.

After going through the data of customers from the past 12 months, the team at Cellarmasters found there were strong trends based on birth dates

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)

Arguably the most determined sign of the Zodiac, Capricorns tend to be ambitious and secure in their own place. But, they also have a soft side and are known to be sensible, full of wisdom and practical.

Capricorns love big, bold red wines like Mataro and Malbec, while white wine loving Capricorns prefer Semillon, a variety that's often dubbed Australian wine's unsung hero.

And because they like big, earthy wines, Moscato, a lightly frizzante, sweet Italian wine, is their least favourite.

Aquarius (January 20 to February 18)

Aquarians are open minded, unpredictable and independent – they tend to be visionaries and leaders, and like to do things their own way.

When it comes to their palates, Aquarians are adventurous with their wines and love alternative varieties like Zinfandel and Sangiovese.

If they're drinking white, they won't say no to a Gewürztraminer, an aromatic, dry white wine. If there's not an exciting wine list, they'll settle for a Shiraz or Rosé.

They drink the least sparkling wine of the whole zodiac so they will sniff at your cheap bubbles, so don't even think about offering them anything mainstream like that!

Pisces (February 19 to March 20)

Pisces are known to be generous, compassionate caring and faithful and they are more intuitive than other star signs.

When it comes to wine, they prefer the delicateness and crispness of white wines – perhaps because it matches their ethereal personalities.

They drink more Pinot Gris than any other Zodiac sign, and they love a Semillon and a SSB (Semillon Sauvignon Blanc) blend. If there's only red wine on the list, they can be tempted into having a glass of Pinot Noir or sparkling red.

If there's only red wine on the list, Pisces can be tempted into having a glass of Pinot Noir or sparkling red

Aries (March 21-April 19)

Aries are full of spontaneity; they are known to be impulsive, direct and courageous, as well as daring and energetic.

This temperamental fire sign drinks the most Tempranillo, a Spanish, full-bodied red wine, of all the signs. They also love Cabernet blends, bringing them that perfect mix of tannic full-bodiedness and juicy fruit flavours.

They drink the least Pinot of all star signs, and they find this popular red wine too light in style for their liking.

When it comes to white wines, they love bubbles as it suits their bubbly personality. They're not too fussy, and they won't say no to your budget bubbles or a glass of Champagne.

Taurus (April 20-May 20)

Earthy Tauruses are known to be reliable, generous and practical. However, they can also be self-indulgent, lazy and stubborn.

Perhaps it is their indulgent side that makes them the biggest fans of dessert wines of the entire Zodiac – they just can't pass down a lovely, sticky Tawny Port.

This earth sign prefers a bold wine to really get their palates going, and they love a tannic, full-bodied Cabernet Sauvignon.

They're not huge white wine drinkers, but they will quaff the occasional glass of Champagne or Riesling.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)

Geminis are known to be quick-witted and expressive with two different sides to their personalities. One side of a Gemini is fun and sociable and the other side is suddenly serious and restless.

This unpredictable sign has quite an unpredictable palate that swings from one end to the other. When it comes to white wines, they love the lightness and crispness of an Aussie Riesling, but they also love the full-bodied oakiness of a Chardonnay.

When it comes to reds, their favourite is a juicy Merlot or light-bodied Sangiovese, but they also love a tannic, full-bodied Cabernet Sauvignon.

Although Champagne is normally a crowd pleaser, don't expect Geminis to accept one. They're also not fans of Sauvignon Blanc.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)

Cancer is one of the more emotional signs of the Zodiac, and this water sign is known for being very sensitive and sympathetic towards other people.

Being the sensitive souls, they don't have a strong preference when it comes to wines – they like an ethereal Pinot Noir or a full-bodied Tempranillo.

White wine drinking Cancers enjoy Riesling, Pinot Gris/Grigio and Sauvignon Blanc. They also drink the least Rosé of the entire Zodiac constellation.

Being the sensitive souls, Cancers don't have a strong preference when it comes to wines – they like an ethereal Pinot Noir or a full-bodied Tempranillo

Leo (July 23-August 22)

Leos are born for the spotlight. They are action-oriented and love to be loved and admired by all. Their innate passionate personalities naturally inclines them towards alternative Mediterreanean varieties.

They love Sangiovese, a light bodied Italian red wine, and Primitivo/Zinfandel originally hailing from Croatia's Dalmatian Coast.

However, they can be wine purists, being the least likely to opt for Cabernet Blends. And when white is the only option, they love a zesty Sauvignon Blanc.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)

Unlike other star signs, Virgos dislike being the centre of attention. They are also kind, hardworking and are known to think analytically.

This earth sign seems to have a soft spot for fruity, dry wines. They drink the most Gewürztraminer of all the signs, and they love a fruit-forward Sauvignon Blanc and Verdelho.

When it comes to red wines, they'll drink Pinot Noir with bright berry fruit aromas or possibly Mataro.

Virgos drink the least Cabernet Sauvignon of the whole Zodiac, so don't even think about serving them a glass of this full-bodied wine!

Libra (September 23-October 22)

Libras are known for looking out for everyone's needs above their own, and are known to be kind, gentle, peaceful and full of love.

These modest air signs are the biggest fans of Moscato of the Zodiac, a clear nod do their easy-going personalities.

They are also big fans of crowd-pleasing Rosé, and won't say no to a fruit-forward Grenache. But steer clear of Tempranillo, they are not the biggest fans of this wine.

Librans are also big fans of crowd-pleasing Rosé, and won't say no to a fruit-forward Grenache

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)

Scorpios are known for being strong-willed, driven, ambitious and dedicated.

Perhaps unsurprisingly, these passionate water signs drink the most Champagne of the Zodiac.

When it comes to red wines, they love Mediterranean reds like Tempranillo and Sangiovese. They'll turn their noses up at a Semillon – it's way too bland for them!

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)

Sagittarians are free spirits, and full of optimism and courage. They are also known to be impatient and reckless.

These impulsive fire signs drink more Grenache than any other sign. This lighter style red is gaining in popularity and trust a courageous Sagittarius to be on-trend.

They're not big on white wines, although they will have the odd glass of Champagne.

They're definitely not fans of Chardy, as they drink the least of this polarising variety.