With the final chance to party in 2019 fast approaching, now is the time to think about how to add the finishing touch to your New Year's Eve outfit with a statement handbag.

If you've spent hours hunting down the perfect party dress, you'll want to make sure you carry your possessions in style with a bag that looks as good as you do.

From feathers and sequins to strokably soft velvet, here are eight gorgeous evening bags that combine texture and colour to countdown to 2020 in style.

UBORSE evening clutch bag, £15.95

Black and gold are the ultimate party colours and now you can combine both with this bag that definitely has the wow factor.

The boxy design is a recent evening bag trend and the cutout gold embellishment is guaranteed to catch the lights on the dancefloor this New Year's Eve.

It's the perfect size for a phone, lipstick, cash, keys, cosmetics and any other small daily essentials. You can also wear it as a shoulder bag if you tire of carrying it as a clutch thanks to the detachable chain. It's also available in white and gold for a slightly different look.

Buy now on Amazon

Evening Glitter Gold Clutch, £72

Keeps cards and cash safe in style with this timeless gold clutch bag. It adds a touch of sparkle to an outfit while being small enough not to detract from the party dress itself.

This bag has a hardshell case, clasp top closure and detachable chain strap so you can keep your valuables close. Start off by carrying it as a clutch and then employ the strap when you want your arms back for dancing.

Gold looks fabulous all year round so you'll get a lot of use out of it.

Buy now on Karen Millen

MEGA Sequin Shell Shape Chain Shoulder Bag, £16.99

Add a playful touch to your New Year's eve outfit with a handbag shaped like a sea shell. This bag has sequins and a cute pastel pink colour and will soften any look.

It will make a LBD look more exciting as well as hold its own next to a sequin dress. There's enough space for a phone, make-up, keys, cards and cash and the detachable chain strap allows for wearing it as a crossbody bag or a shoulder bag.

The bag is also available in silver.

Buy now on Amazon

Kurt Geiger Mini Kensington Bag, £130

The Kurt Geiger Mini Kensington bag is full of attitude, which is perfect if you're planning on power dressing on New Year's Eve. This is the ideal bag for trouser suits, leather trousers or jumpsuits.

It's made from quilted leather and the chain strap doubles up as handles so it can be carried over the shoulder, across the body or by hand.

It's printed with the label's lettering on the back, and Kurt Geiger's signature crystal-encrusted eagle head motif on the flap. The devil is in the detail and this bag is edgy without being OTT.

Buy now on Selfridges

Fion feather clutch bag, £49

If your dress features sequins or organza, your bag needs to have its own unique texture. Feathers are the ultimate way to stand out and show that you're in the mood to party.

The Fion feather clutch is delicate but attention grabbing, a heady mix of femininity and feistiness.

It's black colour means it will go with all outfits, both dresses and trousers, so you'll be able to get it out of the wardrobe for multiple parties throughout 2020, which makes it excellent value-per-use.

Buy now on Phase Eight

Lucy Red Suede Envelope Clutch, £125

Add a touch of luxury to your look with this small but perfectly formed Lucy clutch. It's crafted in Spain from super-soft roca red suede, which is an exclusive shade to L.K.Bennett.

Designed to a small, rounded envelope shape, it has a detachable shoulder strap, closes to the front with a gold clasp and is finished with matching gold hardware.

It's an investment piece that will not just turn heads on New Year's Eve but act as a perfect companion for spring events and summer weddings.

Buy now on L.K. Bennett

Paden Mini Boxy Cross Body, £14

In the hottest shade of green, this bag combines velvet and faux leather in a compact rectangular shape.

The gold chain and clasp perfectly complement the emerald colour of the bag, making it an eye-catching piece.

It's an ideal way to add a splash of colour to an all-black look or you could wear it with an outfit of the same striking green because the mix of materials makes it stand out. All of this for less than the cost of a cocktail!

Buy now on Very

Chainmail zip top clutch bag, £20.30

You can never have enough shimmer over the festive party season and this chainmail bag will sparkle from all angles as you carry it.

With a totally modern and lightweight style, it won't weigh you down on the dancefloor. It may be sparkly but the relaxed shape looks understated, giving off the vibe that the wearer is cool without trying too hard.

The silver metallic design would look incredible clashing with a gold sequin outfit or to elevate a black or plain bodycon number.

Buy now on Accessorize

Check out our discount section for Christmas deals and offers.

MailOnline may earn commission on sales from the links on this page.