UFC star Alistair Overeem has given fans a glimpse of his surgically-repaired upper lip after it was brutally torn open in Washington earlier this month.

Overeem was just seconds away from defeating Jairzinho Rozenstruik at a UFC Fight Night on December 7 when a savage right hand caused a huge split in his lip.

The fight was stopped shortly after he suffered the gruesome injury, with the Dutch heavyweight requiring urgent medical attention.

Alistair Overeem shows off his surgically repaired upper lip after a brutal fight in Washington

The heavyweight had his lip torn open by a huge right hand from Jairzinho Rozenstruik

ESPN were on hand to document Overeem's recovery after he underwent surgery to repair his lip, although it is not yet known when he will be ready to fight again.

In a clip posted to Instagram, the 39-year-old is seen sporting a number of facial stitches as he checks out of a hotel.

'It was a nice fight,' Overeem says in the video. 'It was a good scrap.

'I was winning all rounds, just doing my thing. Too fast of a stoppage if you ask me. I was not out. I was knocked down, getting right back up.'

Footage from the event at Washington's Capital One Arena clearly showed part of Overeem's lip being separated from the rest as he fell to the ground.

The Demolition Man did manage to get back to his feet after being knocked down by Rozenstruik's punch, but referee Dan Miragliotta decided to call an end to the contest with just four seconds of the final round remaining.

The stitches on Overeem's upper lip can be seen in a new video posted by ESPN on Instagram

A tear in Overeem's lip can be seen just moments after his fight with Rozenstruik was stopped

If getting KO’d in the last 10 seconds of the fight wasn’t bad enough, Overeem’s lip exploded pic.twitter.com/R536TuiYFU — Barstool Sports (@BarstoolsTweets) December 8, 2019

Overeem had been 4-0 up on the scorecards and was unhappy that the bout was stopped.

He wrote on Twitter: 'Getting stitched up. Lip not too sexy at the moment.. a little bit a fast stoppage if u ask me - but hope u guys enjoyed the fight.'

The defeat ended a two-fight winning run for Overeem, who now has a record of 45 wins and 18 defeats during his career in mixed martial arts.

Rozenstruik throws a left hand towards Overeem during their battle in the Octagon