His children Cruz, 14, and Harper, eight, were recently baptised in an intimate ceremony with Godparents Eva Longoria and Marc Anthony in attendance.

And David Beckham treated his kids, also including sons Brooklyn, 20, and Romeo, 17, to a trip to Lapland UK on Sunday following the celebrations.

The family looked in high spirits on their trip where they were treated to a number of festive sights after their star-studded party.

David Beckham, 44, treated his children to a day out at Christmas-themed park Lapland UK on Sunday

David, 44, took to Instagram and uploaded a series of snaps from their day at the Christmas themed park which saw them watch a performance by Mrs Claus and a number of helpers.

The family also posed for photos with Santa, with Brooklyn and Harper both holding up books that read 'Good List' on the front.

The Beckham's youngest child looked adorable in the snap as she grinned broadly while clutching her book.

They also took to the ice during their trip with David posting pictures of both Brooklyn and Harper with skates on, with a large festive tree in the background.

Festive: The family posed for snaps with Santa with Harper, eight, sporting a large grin as she cluthced a book with 'Good List' written on the front

David also posed for a few snaps himself as he laughed and joked around with a friend.

Victoria, 45, did not appear to be with the rest of the family on the trip following the baptismal celebrations the day before.

It comes after Victoria revealed her two younger children have been baptised, sharing a sweet family photo of her children alongside their 'wonderful' godparents Eva, Marc, hairdresser Ken Paves and sports agent David Gardner on Saturday.

It had been reported that Victoria and David were planning to celebrate the baptism with a lavish party, with a guest list was set to include stars such as Elton John and Liv Tyler.

Victoria shared her pride for Harper and Cruz following their baptism in front of friends and family, as she also praised their Godparents for being present during the church service.

Dapper: Brooklyn, 20, sported a tan coat with a white T-shirt and dark trousers for the day

Fun: They also took to the ice during their trip with David posting snaps of both Brooklyn and Harper with skates on, with a large festive tree in the background

Fun: At one point David laughed and joked around with a friend while they posed on a wooden horse

Festive: The footballer looked in high spirits as he posed for a framed photo

She wrote: 'I couldn’t be more proud of my children and thankful to my family, and the most wonderful Godparents. We love you @evalongoria @kenpaves @marcanthony @davidgardner x kisses.'

The schoolgirl was stood between her godparents Eva, and Ken, as well as her delighted mum, who cut a chic figure in an all-white ensemble.

Behind them were Victoria and David's sons Romeo and Brooklyn as well as their proud dad, Cruz himself, singer Marc and sports agent David.

Victoria also uploaded a second snap of Harper and Cruz stood at the altar ahead of being baptised, with the caption reading: 'Proudest of days today watching Harper and Cruz being baptized in front of our friends and family.

Festive: David sported a red Santa hat while his pal wore a large pink striped shirt

Christmas: Harper and Cruz, 14, spoke with Santa who was sat in front of a large Christmas tree

'So much to be grateful for x With love, VB x I love u @davidbeckham.' [sic]

All of Harper and Cruz's godparents are longtime friends of David and Victoria, with Eva first meeting the couple during their time living in Los Angeles, when the former footballer played for LA Galaxy from 2007 to 2012.

Hairdresser Ken has been friends with Victoria since around 2006, and she's jokingly referred to him in the past as her 'substitute husband.'

David and Victoria have also been friends with Marc since their time living in LA, and were also pals with his then-wife Jennifer Lopez, until the couple split in 2012.

It was reported that Victoria was clashing with husband David's father over her plans to christen Harper and Cruz.

Absent: Victoria did not appear to be with the rest of the family on the trip following the baptismal celebrations the day before

Entertainment: Romeo, 17, was all smiles as the family watched a show during their trip to the park

The couple were said to have spent thousands on the glamorous event, but David's father Ted, 71, was said to be annoyed his partner's daughter Charlotte, 27, had been snubbed from the exclusive guestlist.

The Sun reported Ted, who is divorced from David's mother Sandra, had been invited to the event with his new partner, millionaire and solicitor Hilary Meredith, 60, but her daughter Charlotte didn't make the list.

A source told the publication while Charlotte wanted to go as a 'family unit', Victoria's 'mistrust of outsiders' led to her being blocked from attending.

'Very proud day': Cruz and Harper were recently baptised in an intimate ceremony with Godparents Eva Longoria and Marc Anthony in attendance

Style savvy: Harper looked adorable in her cream maxi dress and a cape, while Cruz sported a skinny suit by Dior

Lovely: Victoria uploaded a snap of Harper and Cruz proudly stood at the altar of the church as they prepared to be baptised, ahead of a star-studded celebration at their Cotswolds manor

The source said: 'Charlotte believes they are a family and should be invited as a unit, in the end Ted asked David if they could bring her.

'He said he’d speak to Victoria, but he came back and said sorry they couldn’t fit one more in.'

David's father Ted met Hilary at ex-services care home Broughton House in Manchester back in April.

Ted and his former partner Sandra married in autumn 1969 and share three children; Lynne, 47, David, 44, and Joanne, 37.

Dapper: David later shared a snap with a very smart Romeo, before joking he's still taller than his growing son

Following over three decades of marriage, the pair split in 2002, during the last months of footballer David's Manchester United career.

In an interview with The Mirror back in 2005, Ted admitted his children had been affected by his split from Sandra.

He shared at the time: 'David has spoken about how hard our splitting up was for him - it was tough for all our children.

'I know they were all pretty much grown up by the time we got divorced but it was still a heck of a shock for them.

'We'd been married for 33 years and had simply drifted apart. Just about the only thing we had in common was football.'