Fans are counting down to the soap's long-awaited Christmas Day special.

And EastEnders stars Jessie Wallace and Louisa Lytton were getting geared up for the festive season on Wednesday, as they picked up some last minute presents during a break from filming.

Jessie, 48, cut a casual figure as she exited the supermarket with a trolley full of purchases, while Louisa, 30, headed back to her car with a hot beverage and an enormous gift bag.

Out and about: EastEnders stars Jessie Wallace (left) and Louisa Lytton were getting geared up for the festive season on Wednesday as they enjoyed some Christmas shopping

Jessie opted for a cosy black and white fluffed jumper as she headed out of her supermarket with some festive purchases which included two Nutcracker-esque toy soldiers.

The star - who plays Kat Slater on the soap - teamed the jumper with a comfy black maxi skirt and trainers as she got prepared for the Christmas season.

Jessie was getting geared up for the Christmas season with a selection of gifts as fans eagerly await the soap's upcoming story lines.

Fun: Jessie opted for a cosy black and white fluffed jumper as she headed out of her supermarket with some festive purchases which included two Nutcracker-esque toy soldiers

Busy: Louisa was also in high spirits as she headed back to her car with an enormous Christmas gift bag in hand after a spot of shopping

Louisa was also in high spirits as she headed back to her car with an enormous Christmas gift bag in hand after a spot of shopping.

The soap star - who plays Ruby Allen - opted for cosy sportswear and a padded coat for the outing, as EastEnders prepares to show the fallout after Phil Mitchell finally learns the truth about his wife Sharon's affair.

In explosive scenes that will air on Christmas Day, the soap hardman will lash out after learning the father of Sharon's unborn baby is Keanu Taylor.

Busy: Danny Dyer - who plays Queen Vic landlord Mick Carter - was also spotted out and about picking up some pre-Christmas essentials

Elsewhere in Albert Square, Linda Carter's drinking continues to spiral out of control, until she drunkenly staggers out of the pub after a row with husband Mick on Christmas Eve.

Mick desperately tries to keep spirits high on the big day for his son Ollie, but as Linda (played by Kellie Bright) fails to return home on Christmas Day, the pressure becomes too much and he suffers a panic attack.

Danny Dyer - who plays Queen Vic landlord Mick - was also spotted out and about picking up some pre-Christmas essentials as he took a break from filming for the soap's storylines to air in early 2020.

The Carters will take centre stage in the New Year, as Linda remains sketchy about her whereabouts on Christmas Day, and it remains to be seen whether she can kick her drinking habit.

EastEnders airs its festive special on Christmas Day at 9:30pm on BBC One. It next airs tonight at 7:30pm.