Air passengers faced missing their flights home for Christmas today after Gatwick Airport train station was partially closed due to a platform lighting failure.

Rush hour commuters as well as flight-goers on Southern and Thameslink services through the airport in West Sussex faced major delays and cancellations.

Rail bosses warned journeys were being delayed by at least 30 minutes and urged passengers to 'travel as early as possible' if they are due to catch a flight.

Passengers are pictured queuing for buses outside London Gatwick Airport train station today

People are forced onto buses Gatwick train station today due to issues with station lighting

Passengers queue outside Three Bridges station today which has also been hit by disruption

Only two platforms at Gatwick were available for trains to arrive and depart from, with services calling there needing to queue and wait for platform availability.

It comes after two of the UK's busiest train stations faced hours of major delays yesterday, in what one commuter labelled the 'worst transport chaos' he had seen.

Thousands of passengers struggled to get home from Victoria and London Bridge stations yesterday following a 'major signal failure' near East Croydon.

Today's delays caused fury among passengers on social media, including Emma Jane, who tweeted: 'After East Croydon nightmare yesterday is this a joke today?'

Angela Bishop added: 'If you have a flight to catch today, give up and walk, cos there certainly won't be a decent service from any of the Southern Rail or Thameslink.'

And Jim Ryan said: 'Yet again, Southern Rail proving to commuters paying hundreds to pounds a year every day (how) shocking your service is.'

Great Western Railway services between Reading and Gatwick Airport had to start or terminate at Redhill, with road transport running between Redhill and Gatwick.

Southern and Thameslink tickets could be used on Metrobus routes between Horsham, Crawley, Three Bridges, Horley and Redhill via all reasonable routes.

First class was declassified until 10am today, with ticket acceptance also in place on Underground services between Victoria, Blackfriars and London Bridge.

In an announcement to Gatwick Express, Southern and Thameslink passengers, a spokesman said: 'The lighting at Gatwick Airport station has failed.

'If you're travelling to or from Gatwick Airport today, your overall journey will be extended by at least 30 minutes.

'You are advised to travel as early as possible if you're boarding flights from the airport this morning, and carefully check before travelling.'

Bosses also warned that Three Bridges and Horley will be much busier than usual, so passengers should allow themselves extra time to move around the stations.

Later, a Thameslink spokesman said: 'The safety of our passengers is paramount which is why, with no lighting overnight at Gatwick station due to an extended power cut, we were unable to stop trains at all but one of the southbound platforms.

'UK Power Networks have been working to install a generator which is a major logistical exercise due to difficult access. After various testing, we can confirm that, as of 10am, lighting and full facilities were restored throughout the station.

Thousands of passengers struggled to get home from London Victoria station yesterday

'Together with UK Power Networks, we're working to investigate the root cause of the outage and how a re-occurrence can be prevented. We apologise for any delay this has caused to your journey today.'

Yesterday, passengers were crowded on the Victoria concourse, unable to catch their Southern, Southeastern and Gatwick Express trains home.

Across the city, Thameslink services out of London Bridge were also affected.

Rob Broomby, a TV producer, was stuck at Victoria and said it was the 'worst transport chaos' he had experienced since the 1990s.

He added: 'There was a lot of good humour in the bar as people settled in for a long wait, but when the platform indicators began flashing on and off it felt more like a Christmas tree with dodgy wiring.'

The problems at Victoria yesterday followed a 'major signal failure' near East Croydon

Another of those stuck at Victoria was Labour MP for Hove and Portslade, Peter Kyle, who described the scenario as 'not fit for modern Britain'.

He apologised to customers and said staff would be 'devastated' by the delays and cancellations. He tweeted: 'You deserve better. I'll continue fighting for the investment we need.'

Earlier in the evening he had described the central London hub as 'at a standstill' and said passengers had been 'let down badly this evening'.

Victoria and London Bridge are Britain's second and fourth busiest stations, carrying 75 million and 48 million passengers in 2017/18 respectively.

Network Rail apologised and advised people to find other routes if possible.