Britain's defence chiefs have held an emergency summit over a £1 billion funding black hole amid fears that the Government is planning to tackle years of Armed Forces profligacy.

General Nick Carter, the chief of the defence staff, is said to have summoned the heads of the Royal Navy, British Army and Royal Air Force to address the shortfall in next year's budget.

The forces are currently in the middle of introducing expensive new kit, including the advanced F-35 Lightening fighter jet and new Astute Class attack submarines.

They are concerned that Boris Johnson's chief aide Dominic Cummings is planning to overhaul defense spending, which is mired by over spending and a lack of value for money.

A source told the Financial Times: 'It was an emergency meeting. There is a feeling among the chiefs that Cummings is coming to get them.'

They are concerned that Boris Johnson's chief aide Dominic Cummings is planning to overhaul defense spending, which is mired by overspending and a lack of value for money

The forces are currently in the middle of introducing expensive new kit, including the advanced F-35 Lightening fighter jet (right) and new Astute Class attack submarines (left)

The Ministry of Defence's procurement is expected to be a priority for next year after Mr Cummings previously described the systems as 'a farce'.

In blogs before he worked for the PM, Mr Cummings has bemoaned 'mediocre' officials at the department and criticised the £6.2billion cost of two aircraft carriers.

He branded the project a 'farce' saying it had 'has continued to squander billions of pounds, enriching some of the worst corporate looters and corrupting public life via the revolving door of officials/lobbyists'.

HMS Queen Elizabeth aircraft carrier arriving in Portsmouth - but the project has been criticised

He complained that the carriers still 'cannot be sent to a serious war against a serious enemy'.

Instead, Mr Cummings praised drone technology and suggested futuristic AI-driven weapons such as 'swarms' of tiny explosive robots.

'A teenager will be able to deploy a drone from their smartphone to sink one of these multi-billion dollar platforms,' he wrote in March.

The Conservative manifesto pledged to modernise equipment for forces, ordering new vehicles and establishing a UK space command.