A seven-year-old boy who had to crawl everywhere because he was born with two clubbed feet has taken his first steps after life-changing surgery in Australia.

Chien was born in a remote village in Vietnam with a debilitating condition known as 'clubfoot' where the soles of the feet turn inwards and face each other.

In Australia the condition would have been corrected with orthotics without surgical intervention - but due to a lack of money and medical resources in Vietnam, Chien's condition got worse as he got older.

Chien, seven, is pictured with a debilitating condition known as 'clubfoot' that stopped him from walking

The youngster lives with his grandmother during the school holidays and with his teachers during the school term, hundreds of kilometres away from home.

He used his upper body strength to crawl around and lift himself - and also relied on his school friends to carry him around on their backs.

Chien had never walked until he was taken to Australia for life-changing surgery.

A charity called Children First Foundation that raises money for ill children in developing countries posted Chein's story and called for donations.

The boy was flown to Australia thanks to a charity where he had life-changing surgery

Chien had never walked before the surgery in Australia, but has since taken his first steps

What is clubfoot? Clubfoot refers to a condition in which a newborn's foot or feet appear to be rotated internally at the ankle. The foot points down and inwards, and the soles of the feet face each other. It is known as talipes equinovarus (TEV) or congenital talipes equinovarus (CTEV). In 50 percent of cases, both feet are affected. Around 1 in every 1,000 infants are born with clubfoot. Source: Medical News Today

They raised enough to fly him to the St John of God Hospital in Berwick, southwest of Melbourne, for corrective surgery on his feet and right hip in early December.

Melbourne surgeon Tom Tran has been amazed by the boy's progress.

'I didn't expect, given he hasn't walked in seven years, he would be able to even stand for at least three months,' he told 7 News.

Chien developed a bond with Mr Tran and will spend Christmas with the surgeon's family.

The Foundation said Chien will stay in hospital for a few days before heading to a retreat set up by the charity for rehabilitation.

He is expected to start walking properly in six months to a year.