Bake Off star Paul Hollywood has been given the green light to erect a garage on his sprawling manor estate to store his fleet of luxury cars and motorbikes.

Planners initially poured cold water on the self-confessed petrol-head's ambitious blueprint because it proposed a lofty super-garage which was bigger than the actual country mansion.

But after scaling back the size by more than a third, the 53-year-old motor-junkie has won his bid to add the outbuilding to his £1million home in Kent.

It will take pride of place outside the 18th Century Grade II-listed farmhouse and, among other flashy cars, house the £100,000 Range Rover he splashed out for in the wake of his bruising break-up with Summer Monteys-Fullam.

Bake Off star Paul Hollywood has been given the green light to erect a garage on his sprawling manor estate to store his fleet of luxury cars and motorbikes

But after scaling back the size by more than a third, the 53-year-old motor-junkie has won his bid to add the outbuilding to his £1million home in Kent (design pictured)

It will take pride of place outside the 18th Century Grade II-listed farmhouse and, among other flashy cars, house the £100,000 Range Rover he splashed out for in the wake of his bruising break-up with Summer Monteys-Fullam

Hollywood, a high-octane junkie boasts an impressive collection of cars and at one point owned 14 motorbikes including a state-of-the-art Ducati and a Panigale 1199 S.

He was also restoring a £60,000 B200 Benetton chassis, a car raced by Austrian star Alexander Wurz in 2000.

A source close to the professional baker said he had always been obsessed by cars and bikes: 'He had four cars and a Formula One car which was being built.

'He's a professional racing driver so he has a love for them. He had 14 motorbikes at the time as well.'

But he sold off some of his vehicles because they reminded him of the 24-year-old barmaid who sensationally dumped him when he asked her to sign a gagging order.

Yet after a tough year, he will go into 2020 safe in the knowledge that his new garage will go ahead.

Set in eight acres of lush Kent countryside, Hollywood purchased the 18th century, four-bedroom property described as one of the best in the area - for £810,000

The recently-divorced dad-of-two's Instagram posts show his love for fast cars and motorbikes

The building works will see him bulldoze an existing outbuilding and replace it with the L-shaped garage.

His planning agent said: 'The proposed garage will have an equal 'L shaped' plan with an eccentrically pitched roof.

'The scheme proposed seeks to create a 'courtyard' single storey garage building to accommodate our client's vehicles and garden equipment.

'The garage will be set within the private garden of the property and will not be visible from the road.'

To make himself feel better, he reportedly treated himself to a flashy SVR Range Rover worth about £100,000.

Hollywood needed planning permission to demolish the garage, built in the 1980s, because the main house is Grade II-listed.

The building works will see him bulldoze an existing outbuilding and replace it with the L-shaped garage

The Bake Off star bought his stunning Grade II listed farmhouse set in the Kent countryside for around £800,000 in January several months before he split from barmaid Summer Monteys Fullam

Only two of his closest neighbours were consulted about the construction work.

But planners at Ashford Council gave the go-ahead this week after there were no objections.

The 18th century pad was snapped up by Hollywood on January 9 for £810,000, Land Registry documents reveal.

The property - which stands in several acres of Kent countryside - is one of the most expensive properties in the area.

It also includes a large kitchen/breakfast room, a reception room, a dining room, walk in wardrobes, two bathrooms, a utility room, a separate large double garage and a large garden with an orchard.

Property agent Hobbs and Parker described it as an '18th century period farmhouse surrounded by gardens with orchard extending to grazing land.'

The property description reads: 'The house is believed to date back to the 18th Century with many typically Kentish architectural characteristics, including inglenook fireplaces, exposed timbers, leaded windows and latch doors.

'It occupies a large plot and is situated well back from the road approached from a sweep-in gravel driveway passing a delightful front orchard.