Natasha Bedingfield has shared a sweet snap of her toddler son Solomon with his doctor after he underwent life-saving surgery for a brain infection.

The singer, 38, celebrated her son, 23 months, being discharged from hospital after a month of treatment, with an adorable photo showing Solomon - nicknamed Solo- lying under a Christmas tree with his surgeon.

She wrote: 'Sweet relief! The feeling when some one literally saves your life ! This is our Incredible surgeon Dr Chu with Solo after great news.

Scroll down for video

Brave: Natasha Bedingfield has shared a sweet snap of her toddler son Solomon with his doctor after he underwent life-saving surgery for a brain infection

'Solos’s latest scan showed that he is getting better for sure! So much so that they sent us home ! Thank you for the prayers . Thank you.'

The Unwritten songstress also posed up with the surgeon and Solo at the Children's Hospital Los Angeles with the caption 'thank you Dr Chu and team.'

Natasha and husband Matt Robinson shared a heartwarming video as they carried Solo to the car with balloons, as the toddler excitedly said: 'Going home!'

Last week Natasha revealed that the youngster was doing 'really well' and that doctors were 'very positive'.

Road to recovery: The singer, 38, celebrated her son, 23 months, being discharged from hospital after a month of treatment, with an adorable photo

She captioned it: 'Update! Guys solo doing really well. Drs are very positive. Will keep u updated. This is us in hospital playground. Thanks for the prayer.'

Last week she was forced to leave the infant while she flew from her home in Los Angeles, California, to Las Vegas, Nevada, for a 'quick show' she had agreed to prior to her son being admitted to hospital.

The hitmaker posted six images on her Instagram page over last weekend as Solomon recovered from one operation and prepared for a second.

The British singer-songwriter said she was 'gutted' as she penned a lengthy caption, praising 'wise' medical professionals for diagnosing her little boy.

Yes!She wrote: 'Sweet relief! The feeling when some one literally saves your life ! This is our Incredible surgeon Dr Chu with Solo after great news'

Natasha explained doctors found an 'area of infection that somehow found its way into the brain', meaning he needed another operation to treat the infection last Sunday morning.

She wrote: 'I wanted to post all the happy pics from this week of solomon running down the halls of the hospital seemingly recovered - with news that we would soon be going home.....

'But the reality is, we found out last night that he has to have a second operation tomorrow AM.'

Natasha added: 'Feeling gutted but also thank God that we live in a time of MRI where we are able to see into our own minds and for doctors who are wise enough to keep asking questions.

'He has an area of infection that some how found its way into the brain. We are so grateful though that there is treatment for what Solo is experiencing and it is straight forward and has worked many times.'

Christmas begins: Natasha and husband Matt Robinson shared a heartwarming video as they carried Solo to the car with balloons, as the toddler excitedly said: 'Going home!'

Asking her followers to keep her son in their thoughts, she said: 'Please keep him in your prayers and meditation tonight and tomorrow.

'The body has amazing natural defences so we just need it to do what it does with a lot of extra help from modern medicine .

'When you have been in the hospital for 3 weeks, time stops. I'm realising that this is not a quick in and out visit . So this week will be about making sure we ourselves are healthy and also that we are giving solo good nutrition to help keep up the immunity.

'I'm actually on a plane to Vegas tonight to do a quick show I was committed to and then come back in time for the the surgery . Love u guys. Life is crazy. This is the real rock and roll.' (sic)

Solomon is Natasha's first child with her husband Matt Robinson, born on New Year's Eve 2017.

Doting: Natasha's husband Matt looked devoted as he cradled their beloved son

Update: Natasha has kept her followers updated on her son's treatment, after he underwent surgery for a brain infection

Recovery: The hitmaker posted six images on her Instagram page over last weekend as Solomon recovered from one operation and prepared for a second

His arrival came eight years after Natasha tied the knot with her American businessman beau in Malibu, California.

Natasha made a music comeback over the summer with album, Roll With Me, released on August 30.

The songstress dominated the British pop scene in the 2000s and hoped to take over the charts once again with new music.

She rose to fame after her debut album Unwritten went three-times Platinum in 2004 with popular tracks including Single and These Words.

Upsetting: Natasha explained doctors found an 'area of infection that somehow found its way into the brain', meaning he needed another operation

Emotional: Natasha penned a lengthy Instagram caption as she sat on a plane to Vegas for her performance on Saturday night

'Rock and Roll': The musician had already 'committed to' the show, meaning she had to leave her son before whizzing back again as he was wheeled into the operating theatre

The iconic song Unwritten remained on top when it was used in the opening credits of reality show The Hills - a remixed version was recently launched for the 2019 comeback.

In November 2018, Natasha made headlines when she revealed that she co-wrote Cheryl's comeback song Love Made Me Do It.

Natasha previously co-wrote Disturbia for Rihanna and the Kiss Of Life with The Corrs.

She also worked on Love Song to the Earth, which saw the likes of Paul McCartney, Jon Bon Jovi, Fergie, Nicole Scherzinger, Leona Lewis and Sean Paul join her on the track to raise money for Friends of the Earth.