Meat lovers are obsessing over an enormous charcuterie board in the shape of a wooden Viking ship, complete with sails made from hanging prosciutto and a bow laden with olives, crackers and cheese.

Fans of Italian cuisine have been drooling after a photo of the giant grazing platter was posted on Facebook, with many calling it a perfect fixture for weddings or large Christmas gatherings.

The remarkable creation generated a flurry of interest and has been shared thousands of times online, with many saying it has inspired them to 'up' their game for making festive cheeseboards.

Meat lovers are obsessing over this enormous charcuterie board in the shape of a wooden boat, complete with sails made from sliced prosciutto and a base laden with crackers and cheese

'Wow! Prosciutto sails and a boat full of cheese and biscuits. I need this in my life!' one woman said.

'Now that's a grazing boat!' said another.

'That's it, I'm going to build one of these right now,' one man joked.

The trend is the latest in a line of quirky Christmas dishes taking social media by storm, with one baker wowing foodies last week with her unique take on festive pavlova.

Canberra-based confectioner Shalini, the founder of Swish Biscuits, caused a stir by sharing a photo of her 'deconstructed' pavlova grazing platters, showing creative cooks how to make their own using plain meringue and a selection of toppings.

Shalini filled a wooden tray with mini meringues and surrounded them with tiny jars of passion fruit, Nutella, homemade raspberry sauce, salted caramel and lemon curd, adding fresh fruit, coconut, chocolate and mint on the side for garnish.

'Everyone gets to make their own custom "pavs" just the way they like it,' she wrote.

Others have since created their own versions using brownies, cakes, cheese, dips and Christmas cake as toppings.

Creative cooks have been sharing their take on the pavlova grazing board after Canberra-based baker Shalini shared this clever idea on Facebook

Shalini filled a wooden tray with mini meringues and surrounded them with little jars of passion fruit, Nutella, homemade raspberry sauce, salted caramel and lemon curd

How to make the perfect meringue nest for your pavlova grazing board Whip up eight egg whites until thick and foamy then slowly beat in one and a half cups of caster sugar until thick and glossy Mix together one and a half teaspoons of cornflour with one and a half teaspoons of apple cider vinegar and beat into meringue Draw 8cm circles on baking paper as a template (12 circles split between two trays) Spoon on the meringue then bake in a slow oven at 120C for an hour Switch off and let them cool down with the oven door slightly ajar Source: Swish Biscuits Facebook

Amateur bakers have also been shunning the age old tradition of gingerbread by making festive houses from Arnott's Tim Tams, widely regarded as Australia's favourite biscuit.

Biscuit lovers have been rejoicing since a video of the house was posted on Arnott's official Facebook account, showing people how to make their own version using chocolate Tim Tams and other classics like Hundreds and Thousands.

The creation has been hailed as the ultimate Australian twist on a Christmas classic, with many calling the 'Tim Tam House' better than traditional gingerbread.

Australian biscuit giant Arnott's has created a mouthwatering alternative to the traditional gingerbread house, making its own version using national favourites like Tim Tams and Hundreds and Thousands

Hailed as the ultimate Australian twist on a Christmas classic, the house can be made with four packets of Tim Tams, 450 grams of melting chocolate and an assortment of other Arnott's favourites