She's gearing up for the release of action comedy Superintelligence in the new year - her fourth collaboration with her husband Ben Falcone.

And Melissa McCarthy enjoyed some well-deserved time away from her busy schedule as she ran errands before heading to lunch in Toluca Lake on Wednesday afternoon.

The actress and comedian, 49, displayed her edgy sense of style as she sported a pair of navy ripped jeans, tied in with a pair of kooky clear-lens glasses.

Off she goes: Melissa McCarthy enjoyed some well-deserved time away from her busy schedule as she ran errands before heading to lunch in Toluca Lake on Wednesday afternoon

Spy star Melissa added a touch of sophistication to her fun outfit with a classic turtleneck jumper.

Toting her possessions in a studded handbag, the media personality opted for comfort in a pair of black trainers.

The Bridesmaids star dressed her hair in a loose ponytail, while her clear complexion was accentuated with a light dusting of neutral-toned make-up.

Superintelligence will follow the story of Melissa's character Carol Peters, whose life is controlled by her mobile devices.

Out and about: The actress and comedian, 49, displayed her edgy sense of style as she sported a pair of navy ripped jeans, tied in with a pair of kooky clear-lens glasses

Melissa's appearance comes after she hit back at critics of the all-female Ghostbusters remake.

The screen star, who starred in the controversial 2016 film, declared the trolls who slammed the film are 'unhappy' people.

Speaking to Stellar back in August, she said: 'I'm always astonished when people are so quick to lash out negatively.

'I feel a little bit sorry for those people because I think happy people don't stay up till 3am online saying, "You're ruining my childhood."'

The award-winning thespian added: 'But I also have a sneaking suspicion that they didn't have a great childhood - and I'm not the one who ruined it.'

Melissa, along with Bridesmaids co-star Kristen Wiig and comedians Leslie Jones and Kate McKinnon, were the leading ladies in the latest version of the 1984 hit comedy.

The film follows a group of scientists who aim to take down ghosts, and originally featured an all-male team. However, the remake featured an all-female cast in the titular roles.

Working again: The Bridesmaid star is gearing up for the release of comedy Superintelligence next year - her fourth collab with husband Ben Falcone (pictured in February)

'I feel sorry for them': The thespian's appearance comes after she hit back at critics of the all-female Ghostbusters remake (pictured in August)

Many viewers complained of the gender shift between the original male cast to the new, all female leads.

Melissa also defending the Paul Feig's production in an interview with The Guardian at the time.

'I have a visual of those people not having friends, so they're just sitting there and spewing hate into this fake world of the internet. I just hope they find a friend,' she told the publication.