Michelle Bridges took to Instagram on Thursday to wish her son Axel a happy fourth birthday.

The 49-year-old celebrity fitness trainer shared a sweet photo of herself and the little boy enjoying a day at the beach together.

Showing off her toned physique in a black patterned bikini, the mum-of-one gave her son a peck on the lips as she sat on the sand.

Birthday kiss: Michelle Bridges took to Instagram on Thursday to wish her son Axel a happy fourth birthday. Both pictured

Dressed in a rash shirt and a hat, Axel leant towards his mum for the kiss, a slick of zinc visible across his nose and cheeks.

Meanwhile, Michelle covered up in a straw hat and sunglasses, a red bucket seen alongside them, which had been used to build sandcastles.

'My heart skipped a beat... and just like that, he was 4... Happy birthday my one #beachbirthday goodbye my little toddler...' she wrote on Instagram, adding a series of celebratory emojis.

Getting used to it: In an interview with Kidspot in September, Michelle confessed motherhood was an adjustment for her

In an interview with Kidspot in September, Michelle confessed motherhood was an adjustment for her.

She admitted she initially didn't know how to balance her time, and felt bad about prioritising herself.

'I was always very career-focused, and now that I've got this beautiful little boy in my life, and three other amazing children, I realise now that it is critically important - for my own sanity, but also for them - to see that as a role model, that I look after myself, I give myself self-care, that I put myself as much a priority as I put them,' she said.

Me time: She admitted she initially didn't know how to balance her time, and felt bad about prioritising herself

'... They still get everything that they need, but they also see that I will make sure that I get what I need - and even if that's just 30 minutes.'

Speaking to Who in June, Michelle - who shares Axel with her partner-of-six-years, Steve 'Commando' Willis, 43 - said she wasn't sure if she would ever become a mother before welcoming her son at the age of 45.

'The honest truth of it was I was never really maternal. I loved my career, I loved my job. And I never really had that instinctual, "Oh my God, I need to have my baby",' she confessed.