A Greens MP was arrested and thrown in a police van during a peaceful climate protest outside Scott Morrison's Sydney residence.

David Shoebridge, who is the founder of the 'Sniff Off' Facebook page that exposes the location of drug detection dogs, was arrested along with ten others outside Kirribilli House at a 'camp out' climate protest.

Hundreds of protesters bunkered down on the street outside Mr Morrison's address - vowing to stay until the prime minister returns from his unknown holiday location.

The group assembled outside Kirribilli House on Thursday morning to voice their anger at the PM for being absent while the country is battling a bushfire crisis.

Mr Shoebridge was captured on video being searched by police officers, who questioned whose wallet he had in his pocket, and removed his belt from his trousers.

Greens MP David Shoebridge speaking at the 'Kirribilli Camp Out' climate change rally

Mr Shoebridge was escorted by police at the protest before being arrested

'I don't consent to this,' Mr Shoebridge said as police conducted their search.

'I actually complied with the directions and they still arrested me and now they're searching me and heaven knows if they're going to strip search me.'

Mr Shoebrigde later Tweeted: 'Arrested and charged with failure to comply with a move on direction at the rally outside Kirribilli House.

'Interesting fact is that I was trying to comply! Welcome to NSW policing coalition-style.'

Police arrested ten adults and one teenage girl in the protest.

'Five men – aged 34, 48, 52, 55 and 57 – and five women - aged 38, 42, 43, 55, and 66 - were all issued Field Court Attendance Notices for the offence of refuse/fail to comply with direction,' NSW police told Daily Mail Australia in a statement.

'They are all due to appear at Manly Local Court on Thursday 16 January 2019. A 17-year-old girl will be dealt with under the Young Offenders Act.

'While police support the rights of individuals and groups to protest peacefully, but not when it impedes on their safety and the safety of others. Unlawful behaviour will not be tolerated.'

Reports earlier this week suggested Mr Morrison and his family are in Hawaii though the prime minister's office has refused to confirm where he is.

Protesters react after police confront them during a protest outside of Kirribilli House in Sydney, Thursday, December 19, 2019

His holiday looks to have been shortened, however, after it was revealed on Thursday afternoon he would be returning to work on Monday.

He will then work through Christmas and the New Year and travel to India and Japan in January for talks on security and trade with the countries' leaders.

The hashtag #WhereTheBloodyHellAreYou is currently trending on Twitter.

Student Ambrose Hayes, one of the organisers of Thursday's protest, said activists planned to remain at the residence until December 26, when they believe Mr Morrison will return home.

The 14-year-old encouraged people to bring tents, snacks, dust masks and board games to the 'Kirribilli camp-out'.

The Sydneysider believed Mr Morrison's holiday was badly timed.

'Our direct message to Scott Morrison is for him to come home. Even though he's entitled to a holiday, it shouldn't be at a time where Australia is in crisis,' Ambrose told the crowd.

A protester holding a photograph of property destroyed by bushfire is arrested outside of Kirribilli House in Sydney, Thursday, December 19, 2019

He joined other students representing the Schools Strike 4 Climate movement, as well as politicians and health professionals.

Riot squad officers were at the scene in Sydney's north as the protest began, with the smell of bushfire smoke heavy in the air.

Demonstrators, some of whom wore Hawaiian shirts, carried placards declaring 'the time to talk is now' and 'C'mon SloMo'.

They called on the federal government to take immediate action on climate change and urged no new coal and gas projects, a transition to 100 per cent renewables and funding for affected fossil fuel workers.

Sydney doctor Dr Kim Loo said there was no framework currently in place to deal with the effects of climate change on health.

'It is negligent not to do anything about mitigation or adaptation. It is criminal to continue mining, burning, exporting oil, coal and gas because it's fuelling the crisis,' Dr Loo told the crowd.

The protests was attended students representing the Schools Strike 4 Climate movement, as well as politicians and health professionals

'And this is the greatest crisis to our health in the 21st century.'

Cheers erupted as Greens senator Dr Mehreen Faruqi said Mr Morrison was missing at a time of crisis.

'Everyone is gathered here today to ask one question, ''Where the bloody hell is the prime minister"?' Dr Faruqi said.

Nationals leader Michael McCormack is acting as Australia's prime minister while the PM is away - though a study has found most Australians wouldn't recognise him on the street.

The Australia Institute has found fewer than one in three people know who the acting prime minister is.

Ben Oquist from The Australia Institute said McCormack was slowly becoming better known, but was still less recognisable than most of his peers.

'To be clear, the prime minister and his family are fully entitled to a holiday,' Oquist said on Thursday.

'But part of the concern about Scott Morrison's undeclared vacation could stem from the fact that the country is being led by a person who two-thirds of Australians have never heard of.'