Breeze has become the latest in a string of energy suppliers to go bust – leaving thousands of customers in limbo.

Breeze Energy, which has just under 18,000 domestic customers, announced yesterday it is ceasing to trade, making it the ninth supplier of the year to go bust and the 15th of recent years.

Ofgem has assured the firm's customers that their energy supply will continue and outstanding credit balances would be protected.

It comes after the firm was ordered by Ofgem last month to pay more than £486,200 in Renewable Obligation taxes after it failed to demonstrate it had sourced enough electricity from renewable sources.

Breeze Energy is the latest in a long list of energy suppliers which have gone bust recently

This substantial fine is likely to have contributed to the collapse.

This is despite Breeze topping Citizens Advice customer rankings in recent months, achieving an overall score of 4.8 stars out of five.

Ofgem has advised customers not to switch to another energy supplier until a new one has been appointed and said households will be contacted by them in the following weeks.

It also told customers to take a meter reading ready for when the new supplier contacts them.

Philippa Pickford, Ofgem's director for future retail markets, said: 'Breeze Energy customers do not need to worry, as under our safety net we'll make sure your energy supplies are secure and domestic customers' credit balances are protected.

'Ofgem will now choose a new supplier for you and whilst we're doing this our advice is to "sit tight" and don't switch. You can rely on your energy supply as normal. We will update you when we have chosen a new supplier, who will then get in touch about your new tariff.'

Breeze Energy is just the latest supplier to cease trading in a difficult time for the energy market.

So far, Eversmart, Solarplicity, Brilliant Energy, Extra Energy, Spark Energy, Future Energy, National Gas and Power, Iresa Energy, Gen4U, Usio Energy, One Select, Our Power, Toto Energy and Economy Energy have all gone bust in recent times.

The recent troubles have discouraged customers from switching suppliers, with one in five households saying they have been put off from moving providers as a result of the collapses, according to research by Compare the Market.

Peter Earl, Head of Energy at Compare the Market, said: 'Ofgem urgently need to stem the burst main of supplier failures. Breeze is the 15th domestic supplier to fail since the start of 2018, but without more stringent checks on suppliers there will likely be a further collapse in the near future.

'With more than one million households affected by supplier failures, Ofgem's proposed improved financial checks and more rigorous testing for existing energy providers cannot be implemented soon enough.

'With just a week to go before Christmas, Breeze Energy customers can take some comfort that they will still be able to turn the lights and heating on, with Ofgem taking immediate action to appoint a new supplier.'

Customers who are unhappy with their new supplier, when it is revealed, are advised to use price comparison sites to see if they can find a cheaper deal to switch to.