Just how far would you be willing to go to watch your team play every single game?

It's a question that many fans are forced to ask themselves each season - especially around this time of year. For Liverpool supporters though, it wasn't so much as question of going the extra mile this week, more like going the extra 3,329 of them.

And Sportsmail decided it would go all the way alongside them.

The journey began with a trip to the Midlands for Liverpool's Carabao Cup clash on Tuesday

Supporters in the Wilton Arms gathered and the pints began to flow before kick-off

The absurdity of modern football had thrown up an unprecedented scenario that saw Liverpool scheduled to play two cup clashes less than 24 hours apart. To make matters even more impossible, those two matches would take place on two seperate continents.

Jurgen Klopp quickly abandoned the notion of attending both, but would it even be possible? There was only one way to find out. The itinerary was straightforward enough. Get to the Midlands and watch Liverpool's young guns take on Aston Villa in the Carabao Cup, get to a hotel by Birmingham International Airport, rally early in the morning and get on the first flight to Doha before heading straight to the stadium.

A number of young Liverpool players were attempting to do the same. In reality, though, there was plenty of scope for disaster.

A few fans were surprised by the team sheet and a difficult evening was in store for the Reds

There was only a three-hour window to play with should the plane land in Qatar on time. Before panicking about that, there was a game at Villa Park to navigate.

In a marquee behind the Witton Arms – a stone’s throw from Villa Park - Liverpool fans are gathering. The pints are flowing, with no sign of many fans worrying about at 5am alarm in the morning.

A subdued atmosphere, part due to the cold, part due to the prospect of a difficult evening ahead, has enveloped the designated away section of the pub. That feeling is only cemented when the team news drops.

It was a frigid night in Birmingham, a stark contrast to the toasty temperatures of Qatar

About half the players in the Liverpool team would struggle to get served at this establishment. It’s a gritty evening, with the temperature teetering above freezing. A world away from the Middle Eastern climbs Klopp and his senior stars find themselves in.

They have already made the trip out for the FIFA Club World Cup, preparing for their semi-final against Mexican outfit Monterrey. Back in Birmingham, there is little talk about going out to meet them. It is a time of year where extra expenditure takes on extra significance, with Christmas just days away.

One fan explains that he will go anywhere to follow the Reds - happily heading to Madrid last summer without a ticket just to take in the atmosphere. But he can’t justify the trip to Doha. It appears to be the consensus. After getting into the ground, a glance at the programme tells its own story.

Liverpool supporters made the trip down to Villa Park and a few then jetted to Doha

A youthful away side were well beaten by Aston Villa in the Carabao Cup quarter-final

Just five of the 19 individuals listed in Villa’s ‘Meet the Opposition’ are present this evening. The game kicks off in Birmingham with the away fans in fine voice. Even as their young crop succumb to a far more physical – and experienced side – the support is unwavering.

At full-time, a little under two hours later. the away end are on their feet despite the 5-0 scoreline. Some of the players head over to family and friends in the crowd for hugs and photos. Dean Smith waits to shake the hand of every player in a white shirt. Some of us don’t have the luxury of hanging around that long.

Liverpool's participation in the Carabao Cup might be over, but there's another challenge that has just begun. The offer of a lift eases the fear of a marathon trip back to the hotel at Birmingham International but the traffic is nose to tail. It is just past 11pm by the time the head hits the pillow. Less, than six hours and the journey will have to continue.

At 5.40am, the check-in queue for Qatar Airways for the six-hour, 40-minute trip is already snaking around six corners, threatening to block the main throughfare.

The flight is full, but there isn't a flicker of red to be seen among those waiting patiently. Picking up cash from the Bureau de Change, there is only 300 Qatari Riyal (£87.78) left in the entire concourse. They clearly are not expecting a football traffic rush.

Perhaps we have been a little overzealous in our expectations of Liverpool supporters having the desire and determination to make both fixtures. Then again, perhaps not. Sat in the departure lounge, a red cap, emblazoned with the Liver bird and the Champions League emblem, bobs past. There is only one destination that hat and its owner are going.

David Hills, 50, and his wife Joanna, 49, are from Cambridge and were originally due to be in the Middle East at the beginning of the week - but altered their plans when the Villa date was confirmed.

'We changed our plans,' David admits. 'We were supposed to fly out Monday morning but when we drew Villa in the cup we thought we'd change the flight. 'We were going to fly out from Gatwick but it only cost £52 to switch it around.

Sportsmail's Harry Slavin travelled 3,329 miles to see Liverpool play two games in 24 hours

David Hills, 50, and his wife Joanna, 49, changed their plans to catch both matches

'We've got our own little business that we run so it's caused some implications there. But she said "I don't mind" and that's enough for me when you say that to me.'

Despite gambling with the certainty of catching the action at the Khalifa International Stadium, the couple have left nothing to chance.

'We've got a three-hour timeframe when we land,' explains David, whose partner's understanding takes on a whole new level when they reveal this is the first leg of her 50th birthday trip that will end in Sydney.

'We've got a fasttrack through. We've arranged it with the hotel - they're taking us straight to the stadium and taking our luggage to the hotel. If we take off on time, everything should work.'

They had made it to Villa Park the night before, too. Another group also in attendance are spotted wandering through the airport towards the gate for flight QR 036, though their enthusiasm for the trip is somewhat diminished. Ki-Jana Hoever, Sepp Van Den Berg and Caoimhin Kelleher are weary and still a little shell-shocked from the previous evening as they meander up to the gate and through priority boarding.

Ki-Jana Hoever (right), Sepp van den Berg (centre) and Caoimhin Kelleher (left) also flew out

'I tried to chat to Van Den Berg,' admits one fan who recognised the tall Dutch defender getting on the flight. 'He didn't want to know.' Understandable for any teenager seeing the light of day before 6am on a weekday morning. There is the first sign of a possible hiccup on the journey as my boarding pass refuses to scan.

Caught up in the same predicament are two more Liverpool fans. Matthew Johnson and Douglas Bailey are both 25, and planned meticulously to make sure they'd be in Qatar. The fact they have been able to do both games is thanks to a huge slice of good fortune having already booked their flight before the Carabao Cup draw for the quarter-finals.

There are no complaints over what they had seen the night before, although the immediacy of the next fixture has possibly softened the blow of the heavy defeat. That and an awareness of the unique situation.

'I don't think anyone's ever going to see it again,' says Matthew, whose Liver bird t-shirt is not immediately evident, covered by a jacket for most of the morning. 'Liverpool have handled it perfectly. I thought the kids did themselves proud.

Matthew Johnson (right) was one of those brave souls to make the incredible journey

'Unfortunately it wasn't to be but I think Klopp is secretly pleased he doesn't have the two-legged League Cup semi-final in January.'

Finally sat on the plane, it is abundantly clear that we are not the only ones to have had the idea of doing the double header as I find myself sat next to two more Reds. For Mark Montgomery and Paul Hart, there is no doubting which leg holds the most significance.

'You can come back next year and win the League Cup, can't you,' says Paul. 'This is the one trophy we haven't seen them win. We were in Tokyo in 2005, so we want to see them win this one.'

It is one of two trophies the pair - who has followed the club home and away since Paul was 15 - will be hoping to tick off this season. Though how many more trips they have in them is up in the air.

'My wife is kind of used to it,' says Mark. 'We were joking in the pub at the weekend that she married me and the Liver bird at the end of the day, so she knows what to expect. How many more years I can get away with it I’m not sure.'

Paul Hart (right) and Mark Montgomery (left) were among the Liverpool fans on board

It is 5.40pm local time when the flight finally lands in Qatar. After 3,329 miles, we've come this far and we're willing to go a little further. The match is less than three hours away and there is still a few obstacles to overcome.

There was a warning before getting out there that one of the greatest difficulties might be passing through security in a timely fashion. They're completely unfounded. No sooner are we off the plane than we are on our way to the Metro. Doha will be one of the biggest hubs when the 2022 World Cup rolls around in November in three years' time.

The airport looks sleek and prepared for large crowds. The Metro, too, looks capable of coping with the numbers heading towards Sports City, though not that everyone is impressed

There was no margin for error or delay if supporters were to get there on time

Fans filled the metro en route to the Club World Cup semi-final, eager to see Liverpool play

The escalators were packed full with everyone heading to the night's entertainment

There's a bit of a squeeze as the crowds grow as we get nearer the stadium. Those in the train’s ‘Gold Club’ class don't look to impressed at having to share their space with your unrefined football fan.

With more than an hour to spare before kick-off, the Khalifa International Stadium emerges as I make my way through the exit of the Metro. Crowds filing out from the station begin to fill the night air with chants of 'Mo Salah'. For the first time I realise I'm attending a football match.

There is one last detour. I have to head across to Ladies Hall, a 10-minute walk from the stadium, to secure my ticket. With it finally in my hands, it's just a case of making it into the ground. It is 8.11pm local time when I finally take my seat. Nineteen minutes to spare.

There are thoughts spared for those who have made the long journey as Liverpool struggle to overcome their Mexican opponents. That is until Roberto Firmino pops up in stoppage time to seal the win.

Trust the performance on the pitch to mirror the day had by those making the mad dash from the UK. There was initial excitement, a lot of tension and a few scares. In the end though, the outcome was never really in doubt.

The journey was finally completed in Qatar's capital city where Liverpool played Monterrey

There was plenty of support for Jurgen Klopp's side from both locals and visiting fans