She shot to fame as the host of Property Ladder and has since presented shows including Britain's Best Homes and Restoration Nightmare.

And Sarah Beeny got more than she bargained for when she accidentally sprayed herself with mud from a drain in her home.

The TV presenter, 47, posted a snap of herself on Instagram where she sported a dark rain coat and black beanie hat and was covered in dirt.

Mishap: Sarah Beeny, 47, got more than she bargained for when she accidentally sprayed herself with mud from a drain in her home

Alongside the snap, Sarah wrote: 'Ok so never ever pull the pump out of the drains by the hose.'

Several of the host's social media followers posted bemused comments including one who said: 'Got a little something on your face Sarah' and another who wrote: 'You still look glam'.

Earlier in the day, Sarah looked more in a good mood as she enjoyed a wine tasting at Snobby's restaurant bar in Bristol.

The property expert shared a snap of herself smiling with a glass of wine just hours before the mishap.

Relaxation: Earlier in the day, Sarah looked more in a good mood as she enjoyed a wine tasting at Snobby's restaurant bar in Bristol

In September, Sarah revealed she is selling her seven-bedroom London family home for seven times what she paid for it just over 14 years ago.

The TV star listed the home - which she shares with her husband Graham Swift, 46 and sons Billy, 14, Charlie, 13, Rafferty, ten, and Laurie, nine- for £3.5 million.

The couple purchased the south-west London house in 2005 for £480,000, according to public records, meaning that, if they get their asking price, the house will have increased in value seven-fold in just 14 years.

'I always said I would never sell this house – it represents my sons' childhood and we all have such magical memories here. But it's the right time,' Sarah told Hello! over the summer. 'Graham's always wanted to move out of London.

Change: In September, Sarah revealed she is selling her seven-bedroom London family home for seven times what she paid for it just over 14 years ago (pictured in October 2016)

'We've always harboured dreams of giving the boys that Swallows and Amazons childhood idyll. Children grow up too quickly in London. We just want them to be children as long as they can.'

Since investing in a 220-acre sheep farm in Somerset in August 2018, the family have split their time between the two properties, but will now settle in the countryside.

'It was the right time in [the children's] lives to make the change and we're very fortunate that we are in a position that we could make it happen,' she said. 'It's all about decluttering our lives.

'We're making life simpler so we can concentrate on the things that really matter.

Home: The TV star listed the home - which she shares with husband Graham Swift, 46 and sons Billy, 14, Charlie, 13, Rafferty, ten, and Laurie, nine- for £3.5 million (pictured in March 2010)

'I would have been depressed about closing down this house if there wasn't a new door opening. But it feels like a new exciting chapter is beginning.'

The property expert also sold her famous Yorkshire mansion, Rise Hall, this year, which she bought for £440,000 and had a 'nightmare' restoring.

The 97-room Grade II-listed mansion - which she and Graham bought in 2001 - went for a cool £1.4million.

The pair documented the renovation of the house in 2010 Channel 4 series Beeny's Restoration Nightmare - after she bought it covered in black mould and cut off from the village water supply but they transformed it into a wedding venue in the end.