She's flaunted her sensational pins on catwalks around the world.

And Georgia Fowler, 27, showed off her long, trim legs in an elegant feathered mini dress at a fashion event in Sydney on Thursday.

The Auckland-born model dressed for the event in a pink, black and white frock by Australian designer Michael Lo Sordo, who hosted the event.

'Been growing for months': Georgia Fowler (pictured) flaunted her sensational pins in an elegant feathered mini dress at a fashion event in Sydney on Thursday

She paired the look with grey heels, a small black purse and accessorised with a pair of pearl drop earrings.

In the photo, the brunette beauty ran her fingers through her luscious locks.

'Been growing for months,' she wrote in the caption.

Georgia's effortlessly chic snap comes after she took to Instagram to help raise funds for the firefighters battling the raging inferno surrounding Sydney and around country New South Wales.

'We Salute You!' Georgia's effortlessly chic snap comes after she took to Instagram to help raise funds for the firefighters battling the raging inferno surrounding Sydney and around country New South Wales

She shared images of herself in a blue bikini bottom flaunting the white T-shirt on the beach on Wednesday.

She showed off the shirt, which featured red text on the front that said: 'Simmer down sunshine.'

The back of the shirt said: 'Fighting fire so we don't have to' and 'We salute you NSW RFS.'

Good cause: The back of the shirt said, 'Fighting fire so we don't have to' and 'We salute you NSW RFS'

In the caption she wrote: 'We Salute You @nswrfs.'

'In an effort to raise funds for the heroes fighting the fires that have spread across over 3 million hectares of land, taken six lives, and displaced so many families and wildlife.'

The statuesque model explained in the caption that all the proceeds from the T-shirts would be going directly to the firefighters.

'As one person it’s easy to feel like your small part is not enough, but together it all helps,' she added.