Chris Hemsworth has revealed why a fleet of water trucks were spotted arriving at his Byron Bay mega-mansion this month.

After the Herald Sun first reported water trucks were arriving at the property, Chris has addressed why they were at the family's compound.

The Australian actor, 36, said on Instagram: 'The water truck was purely for drinking water.'

Drinking water: Chris Hemsworth has revealed why a fleet of water trucks were spotted at his Byron Bay mega-mansion this month amid drought and bushfires in the region

Chris and wife Elsa Pataky recently moved in to the $20 million coastal home with their three children.

Denying any wrong-doing during amid New South Wales' bushfire and drought crisis, Chris said the drinking water was not for his expansive garden.

'NONE of my garden is fed by drinking water!' he said, after the publication originally claimed the arrival of the water to his property had caused some raised eyebrows among locals.

'NONE of my garden is fed by drinking water!' Denying any wrong-doing during amid New South Wales' bushfire and drought crisis, Chris said the drinking water was not for his expansive garden (Pictured with wife Elsa Pataky)

'I wish I had millions of dollars to buy that amount of water': A farmer estimated that water costs would set the Hollywood power couple back 'millions of dollars', when speaking to The Sydney Morning Herald on Saturday. Pictured: an aerial view of the mega-mansion

Spacious: Chris and Elsa's palatial property offers plenty of room for their children - daughter India Rose, seven, and twin sons Tristan and Sasha, five (all pictured)

'The water truck was purely for drinking water, because like everyone in the region who is not connected to town water we have run out of portable water due to the drought,' the Thor star wrote.

A Macadamia nut farmer had told PS in the article: 'I wish I had millions of dollars to buy that amount of water, all the demand has put the prices through the roof. I've seen his gardens - it's a green, lush oasis in there.'

Chris added the implied accusation he was using the precious water supply for his garden was 'distressing' amid the 'already brutal situation the whole country is dealing with'.

Giving back! Chris and Elsa are showing their support for the NSW firefighters and are using their star power to help raise money for those affected by the bushfires

Meanwhile, Chris and Elsa are showing their support for the NSW firefighters and are using their star power to help raise money for those affected by the bushfires.

A training session with the duo is up for auction on website Make It Rain 2020, with all profits going to NSW RFS Northern Rivers and Far North Coast Brigades. The highest bid was at $8,000 last week. Bidding closes Friday, January 17.

The couple are also expected to attend the two-day Make It Rain concert, which will feature performances by some of Australia's favourite musicians, on Wednesday January 8 and January 9, 2020.

Fans can pick up a single day ticket from $49 or multi day for $90 via MoshTix.