This is the tense moment firemen struggled to drag a 16ft-long python into a sack after it ate a family’s pet cat in Thailand.

Home owner Thongchai Jiamyungyuen, 63, woke up when he heard barking from his dogs in Chanthaburi, Thailand, on December 14.

He followed the noise to the front of his house where he found the enormous deadly reptile sprawled on the ground next to a drain.

Firefighters battle to move a 16ft-long python into a sack in Chanthaburi, Thailand

Footage shows a fireman battling to keep hold of the unwieldy snake while another opens a sack to try and force it inside.

He lifts the coiled python and tries to move it towards the opened sack.

Two firefighters hold both ends of the snake as the other man painstakingly tries to drop the coiling body into the bag.

Seconds later, the men jump back as the serpent manages to pull free of their grasp and slithers out.

The firefighters painstakingly try to lift the snake into a sack which was harder to move because its recent meal made it heavier, according to Chalermdach Pimthong

A fireman, who stands nearby with snake tongs, manages to hook them over the reptile's face and three firemen drag the python into the sack again.

Mr Jiamyungyuen said: 'I was stunned by the size of this python because I had never seen a snake this size before.

'I have no idea where it came from but I noticed that it had eaten our cat, so I thought my dogs were lucky because they could have been eaten, too.'

Thongchai Jiamyungyuen found the snake near a drain at his property. He said: 'I noticed that it had eaten our cat, so I thought my dogs were lucky because they could have been eaten, too'

Firefighter Chalermdach Pimthong, 37, said that the python was difficult to lift as it was heavier because of the weight of its recent meal.

He said: 'The python was still digesting its recent meal, which we think was a cat. This made it harder to catch because its weight had increased from its meal.

'We had caught it but then it escaped while we were trying to put its huge body into the sack. Then we had to start over and the second time the whole team helped out.

The python was kept at the fire station before being released back to the wild.