David Warner and his wife Candice have spent big on investing in property around Sydney's eastern suburbs.

The Australian cricketer, 33, and his former ironwoman wife, 34, have amassed five properties in the affluent region ranging into the millions.

The couple and their three daughters - Ivy Mae, five, and Indi Rae, three and five-month-old Isla Rose - are currently living in a $2.3 million home in Maroubra.

Maroubra monopoly! David Warner and his wife Candice share a multi-million dollar property portfolio in Sydney's affluent eastern suburbs

Successful: The Australian cricketer, 33, and his former ironwoman wife, 34, have amassed five properties

The lavish two-storey home, which they bought in November 2016, features four spacious bedrooms and includes a master suite with its own terrace court yard.

It boasts large formal and informal living spaces on both the lower and upper floors, as well as a lower guest apartment with a private terrace.

Their current abode is serving as an in-between home for the Warner's who are rebuilding another home about 800 metres away from their current address which they bought for $4 million in 2015.

Lavish living: The couple and their three daughters - Ivy Mae, five, and Indi Rae, three and five-months-old Isla Rose - are currently living in a $2.3 million home in Maroubra

Public floor plans and applications revealed that the Warners are building a five-storey property for their 'growing family' with panoramic ocean views throughout.

Another property that's part of the family's property portfolio is an apartment on Broome Street, Maroubra, which they bought in August 2017 for $975,000.

The two-bedroom unit features views out to the sea and is well positioned with a short stroll to amenities like shops, cafes, parks as well as South Maroubra and Malabar beaches.

Investment: Another property that's part of the family's property portfolio is an apartment on Broome Street, Maroubra, which they bought in August 2017 for $975,000

The couple also own a generously sized two-bedroom unit that was tastefully renovated in September 2015 for $830,000 on Maroubra Road.

Another unit David and Candice own is a charming two-bedroom property in Maroubra's Hereward Street, which they bought in April 2017 for $1.02 million

It features polished timber floors, a modern kitchen fitted with top-of-the-range appliances and is minutes from nearby shops, parks, cafes and beaches.

Luxury mansion: The couple also owned a waterfront mansion in Coogee, which they sold for $7 million in 2016

The couple also owned a waterfront mansion in Coogee, which they sold for $7 million in 2016.

David was reportedly put on a contract worth $1.5 million by Cricket Australia along with Steve Smith after returning to the game following the 2018 ball-tampering scandal, Nine's Wide World of Sports reported.

At the time of his suspension Warner's $900,000 Cricket Australia contract was suspended and his $2.4 million Indian Premier League deal torn up after masterminding a plan to cheat against South Africa.

Personal sponsors including LG, Asics and Nestle's Milo severed ties with the cricketer.