Mia Titheridge, 17, killed herself after she was transferred to a mental health hospital

The mother of a teenager who killed herself after she was transferred to a mental health hospital 170 miles from home has criticised the decision to move her so far away.

Mia Titheridge was found unresponsive in her room by staff at Huntercombe Hospital in Buxton, Norfolk, in the early hours of March 19, 2017.

The 17-year-old girl, who had been known to mental health services since the age of eight and was deemed a high-risk patient, was supposed to be on 15 minute observations.

But staff had not checked on her for 57 minutes when she was found, an inquest into her death was told.

Mia, whose family were living in Leeds, West Yorkshire, was pronounced dead a few hours after arriving at Norfolk and Norwich Hospital.

The inquest heard Mia brought a ligature and alcohol back to the hospital following a home visit the weekend before her death but staff did not find them in searches.

Mia is pictured with her mother Tori, 44, who criticised the hospital for a lack of 'meaningful contact' and a failure to share concerns over her daughter's attempts to harm herself

Speaking after the hearing, Mia's mother Tori, 44, said she did not think moving her to a hospital so far from home would help because she already felt 'isolated'.

She also criticised the hospital for a lack of 'meaningful contact' and a failure to share concerns over Mia's attempts to harm herself.

After the inquest, she said: 'We were against Mia being moved because of the distance.

'She was going to be moved to a place where she would be isolated and alone, hundreds of miles from her family and friends who could offer her the support she needed.

'Mia was terrified when she was transferred. We just didn't see how this would help with her rehabilitation.

'The last time I saw Mia she thanked me for a lovely weekend. Little did I know that would be the last time I saw my beautiful daughter.'

Mia's mother Tori said she did not think moving her to a hospital so far from home would help because she already felt 'isolated'

An inquest jury concluded Mia died as a result of suicide after failures by the hospital to respond to Mia's threats to take her life and failures to carry out frequent observations on the night she was found fatally injured.

On March 9, Mia self-harmed but staff at Huntercombe Hospital deemed she could return to her family for a weekend visit and a note was found in her room while she was at home.

When Mia returned to the hospital on March 12, she was searched and a ligature and alcohol were missed.

Tori added: 'The only meaningful contact I had from Huntercombe Hospital was on the Monday following Mia's home leave when they called to say she was drunk.

'At no point did they ever raise other concerns and there was never any indication that Mia had tried to harm herself.

'Mia was my world. She was the most beautiful daughter I could have wished for who had her entire future ahead of her.

Mia was found unresponsive in her room by staff at Huntercombe Hospital in Buxton, Norfolk

'Listening to the evidence around why she died has been heart-breaking but what is even worse is that we are left with the feeling that Mia's death could have been prevented.

'It is difficult not to think those who were supposed to provide the care she needed to make her better let her down when she needed help the most.

'Sending vulnerable people, particularly young people, hundreds of miles away from home to receive treatment does not work.

'While we know that nothing can ever bring Mia back we will continue to campaign for improvements in mental health provision as we would not wish the hurt and pain we are left to face every day on anyone else.'

Huntercombe Hospital was closed following the publication of an unannounced Care Quality Commission (CQC) inspection report in February 2018.

The hospital did not 'protect young people from carrying out acts of self-harm and aggression, the inspection found.

Tania Harrison, expert medical negligence lawyer at Irwin Mitchell representing Mia's family, said after the inquest: 'This is an incredibly tragic case and sadly one of a growing number we are seeing where vulnerable young people with mental health difficulties have not received the care they deserve.

'Some of the evidence into the care Mia received heard during the inquest is extremely worrying.

'While this hospital may have closed it is now vital that all mental health providers take note of this inquest and where appropriate learn lessons from Mia's death to improve patient care.'

The inquest jury returned a conclusion of suicide last month, and the medical cause of death was given as hanging.

For confidential support in the UK call the Samaritans on 116123, visit a local Samaritans branch or click here for details