Summer Monteys-Fullam has revealed she's preparing to take her former boyfriend Paul Hollywood to court for £4,000 over her two horse shelters, built at his £800k Kent farmhouse earlier in the year.

The former barmaid, 24, exclusively told MailOnline she's been left with 'no alternative' but to take legal action against the Bake Off judge, 53, four months after they ended their two-year relationship.

A 'disappointed' Summer said: 'All I have ever wanted was to get back what is rightfully mine - stuff I bought with my own savings... he's punishing my horses with his spite.'

EXCLUSIVE: Summer Monteys-Fullam is gearing up to take Paul Hollywood to court for £4K over her two horse shelters, built at his £800k Kent house earlier this year (pictured in July)

The social media influencer purchased the first stable when she moved her horses to his Grade II listed home in January, and built the second in March for her mare who was pregnant.

'I'm incredibly disappointed that I've had to choose this course of action against Paul', she said. 'Dealing with Paul is a nightmare - everything is done through his lawyers.'

Summer - who dropped a previous lawsuit against Paul in September - also claimed he offered to pay a 'derisory' sum of £1,000 to leave her property on his land.

She also alleged Paul is 'punishing' her animals by not returning the stables, but is not accusing her ex of endorsing animal cruelty.

Ownership: The ex-barmaid, 24, purchased the first stable when she moved her horses to his Grade II listed home in January, and built the second (pictured) in March for her pregnant mare

Hitting back: Summer exclusively told MailOnline she's been left with 'no alternative' but to take legal action against the Bake Off judge, 53, four months after they ended their romance

No thanks! The social media influencer claimed he offered to pay £1,000 to leave her property on his land, but declined his offer (pictured in April)

'He's punishing my animals with his spite!' She was met with a letter challenging her ownership moments before the shelters were scheduled to be removed (pictured in September)

'This is a very disappointing matter. On top of this, he has no need for the shelters whatsoever and is punishing my horses with his spite.

'When we first split up, it was absolutely accepted by him that they were my shelters and I could pick them up at an agreed day.

'His next position he offered me a derisory sum of £1K to leave them on his land which further served confirmation that they were in fact mine.'

She later revealed she declined his offer, and was met with a legal letter challenging her ownership just moments before the shelters were scheduled to be removed from Paul's home.

The animal enthuasiast explained: 'I declined his offer and it was agreed that I'd pick the shelters up. Two days before my workmen were due to pick up the shelters, I received yet another legal letter challenging my ownership.

Legal battle: 'I feel I have been left with no alternative but to take it to the small claims, sadly', she explained (first shelter she built in January pictured)

Sprawling abode: The restaurateur bought his farmhouse in January, seven months after splitting from Summer

'I feel I have been left with no alternative but to take it to the small claims, sadly', she added.

On the report, a source close to Paul told The Sun: 'Paul’s legal team have repeatedly asked for the proof of purchase but Summer has failed to hand it over. What she’s saying is meritless.'

MailOnline has contacted Paul's representatives for further comment.

Earlier in the year, the strawberry-blonde beauty planned to sue the TV judge after he alleged on social media that she had been 'making money selling stories and continuously courting paps'.

Split: Her long-term romance with the BBC star was first met with scrutiny as the star had just announced his divorce from his wife of nearly 20 years, Alex (pictured in 2015)

The Mail on Sunday understood that Paul refused to back down after receiving a letter from Brett Wilson, the London-based law firm acting for Summer.

However in late September, reports revealed the petite star dropped the lawsuit after deciding she wanted to 'draw a line under the break-up and be done with it'.

Earlier this month, Summer claimed her dog Bear was left constipated for a week after eating her former beau's loaf.

During her recent Instagram Q&A, a cheeky fan was curious to find out whether Summer's baking skills had improved during the course of her two-year relationship with Paul.

Having his say: Earlier in the year, Summer planned to sue her ex after he alleged she had been 'making money selling stories and continuously courting paps' (pictured in August)

Moving on: In late September, reports claimed the petite star dropped the lawsuit after deciding she wanted to 'draw a line under the break-up and be done with it'

'Well, it's a good question... he only ever baked one loaf of bread and my dog Bear ate it, and was constipated for a week', she playfully insisted alongside a series of laughing emojis.

The socialite's fellow social media users also asked her to share tips on 'staying strong' following a break-up, after she teased a new romance is on the horizon.

She explained: 'I broke up for a reason and I pushed forwards to my future happiness.'

Summer also broke her silence on refusing to sign an NDA surrounding her relationship with her ex.

Playful: Earlier this month, Summer claimed her dog Bear was left constipated for a week after eating her former beau's loaf

Animal enthusiast: Summer shared rottweiler Bear (far right) with Paul (pictured with Bear and her chihuahua Cookie in June)

Finally putting their fiery break-up behind her, the Kent native exclusively told MailOnline: 'It isn’t about the age, it is about the person – who you love, trust and have mutual respect with… where you are free and accepted to be yourself without any imposed restrictions.'

Her long-term romance with the BBC star was first met with scrutiny as the media personality had just announced his divorce from his wife of nearly 20 years, Alex, in November 2017.

Despite the backlash, the pair seemed as loved-up as ever, before news of their split emerged over the summer - which came as a result of Paul - who is in a new relationship with barmaid Melissa Spalding, 36 - asking Summer to sign a gagging order.

She shared her thoughts on embarking on a new relationship after revealing she wouldn't mind dating an older man again.

'I've pushed towards my future happiness': The socialite's fellow social media users also asked her to share tips on 'staying strong' following a break-up after she teased her new romance

Summer said at the Essential Vie skincare launch last Thursday: 'I'd date an older guy again. I don't think anyone in a relationship should sign an NDA. I'll stand by that.'

After being dumped by the stunner, Paul claimed Summer was money-grabbing, stating: 'There's always two sides to a story - you've only heard one'.

He said back in August: 'Thank you for your messages I've been receiving it means a lot. My silence on any matters is not a sign of weakness or agreement of what's been said, merely I prefer a quiet life away from my day job.

'Take what's read with a pinch of salt and read between the lines. I know the public can't be duped into believing what's out there from a person making money selling stories and continuously courting the paps.

He added: 'There's always two sides to a story you've only heard one.. but alas I don't play those games'.

However a source close to Summer said: 'That's laughable that he says she's a money-grabber. I think his giant ego has taken a hit by ending the relationship with him. So comments like these aren't surprising.'

Summer has open about their split as of recent, with the beauty accusing Paul and his new girlfriend Melissa of creating fake accounts to follow her on Instagram.

She met Paul in 2017 when he arranged a birthday party for his then-wife Alex at the bar where she worked.