Kris Jenner shared a hilarious video of John Legend and Chrissy Teigen on Instagram Stories on Thursday as they had dinner at her home.

But she playfully labelled them the 'worst guests ever' when they simulated sex in her bed AND her closet, shortly after John whipped off his trousers.

Of course, it was all a bit of fun and Kris, 64, took great delight in poking fun at the couple who had really made themselves at home in her house.

Oh get a room! Kris Jenner filmed John Legend and Chrissy Teigen simulating sex in her closet after dinner as playful matriarch labelled them the 'worst guests EVER!'

Make yourself at home: John whipped off his trousers and jumped into Kris's bed with his wife and stroked her bottom, while Kris filmed on her phone

The video started when Kris shared videos of Chrissy, 34, and John, 40, eating dinner at her table and she moaned about Chrissy not helping her with the cooking.

She said: 'OK, so you guys know how I have been asking Chrissy Teigen to teach me to cook. I thought she would teach me something...

'...An appetiser, a dessert... but no, she is just sitting on the couch and not paying attention to me at all. I'm not sure what to do.

Wow! Daughter Kim Kardashian, 39. then comes into view, wearing leather trousers, a white T-shirt and a brown coat and is amazed by her mother's lifelike waxwork

Off they come: John had no qualms about stripping off in Kris's bedroom but it was all done in good humour

'Now she is stealing things out of our Christmas stockings. If they end up in her car, I am going to be p****d.'

It then came to light that Kris has had an incredibly lifelike waxwork made of herself by the Hollywood wax museum, which sits in a chair in one of the rooms.'

She said: 'OK, so Chrissy is obsessed with me, truly. She is staring at me and I feel like it's me, but it's not even me. Hello!'

Chrissy then asked: Does it have nipples?' and John can be heard laughing in the background.

Something to say: Earlier, Kris had joked that Chrissy had not taught her how to cook anything and was ignoring her

Can't take her eyes off her: Chrissy had been rather taken aback by Kris's waxwork as well, which had been created by the Hollywood Wax Museum

Daughter Kim Kardashian, 39. then comes into view, wearing leather trousers, a white T-shirt and a brown coat.

She walks upstairs and is shocked to see her mother's recent acquisition - a very lifelike waxwork figure of herself, complete with sequin blazer.

Kris then shares another video of John and Chrissy at the dinner table, lamenting how Chrissy hasn't lifted a finger and keeps 'ignoring her.'

Cosy nights: As the night wore on, John and Chrissy settled down on the sofa, with Chrissy whipping off her boots

Second wind: But they soon found some energy to roll around in Kris's closet

And why not? Giving a glimpse of Kris's bag and shoe collection, they put on a rather amorous display

In the tub: The couple jumped in the bath after they frolicked in the closet

From there, the couple whip off their shoes and settle down for the night on the sofa.

But there's more to come as then in Kris's bedroom, John whips off his trousers and climbs into bed with his wife, before stroking her bottom.

Then they are in Kris's closet, where John (still in his underpants) and Chrissy simulate sex as they roll around on top of each other on the carpet.

Now that's just too far: Chrissy also brushed her teeth with Kris's toothbrush

No need to go shopping now: Chrissy also started stealing from Kris's fireplace stockings

Knocking over shoes and bags in the process, Kris giggles and says: 'This is happening!'

Before long, they can be seen leaving the mansion with Kris's huge Louis Vuitton bags in tow as they run to their car.

Security run out to playfully stop Chrissy who screams 'I brought these from home,' much to Kris's delight.