Dr Renato Zaccheddu, pictured outside the tribunal hearing in Manchester last week, has been suspended for a year for sleeping with a woman who used his clinic for breast surgery

A plastic surgeon who had a one-night stand with a 'vulnerable' patient after she underwent surgery to 'enhance' her 'deformed' breasts at his clinic has been banned from working for 12 months.

Dr Renato Zaccheddu, 48, had been invited by the woman for a meal in a swanky steakhouse near his Manchester clinic as a 'thank you' for the successful procedure he promised would give 'her sexiness back.'

And afterwards the pair went back to his hotel for a bottle of red wine and sex, a General Medical Council investigation found.

The patient, who is in her 30s, later lodged a complaint against the doctor claiming he made her feel 'uncomfortable' in their medical appointments and saying he was using them to woo her.

During a subsequent investigation it emerged the woman known as Patient A suffered from depression, plus binge eating and became obsessed with flaws with her body.

She and the Italian doctor had swapped intimate texts in which he said she was a 'beautiful girl' and promised to give her, 'her sexiness back.'

Zaccheddu who trained in Milan and who was working at the time at the privately run Transform clinic in Manchester admitted having sex with the woman - but claimed he was going through a 'difficult period' in his life.

He added: 'She was a really begging person and I had a human urge to help someone in difficulty'.

At the Medical Practitioners Tribunal Service he was found guilty of serious professional misconduct and was suspended for 12 months.

Dr Renato Zaccheddu, pictured undertaking a procedure, was working at the time at the Transform clinic in Manchester and told 'Patient A' he would get 'her sexiness back'

Dr Zaccheddu slept with the woman at the luxury Malmaison hotel in Manchester after steak and wine

The woman had refused to testify against the doctor claiming 'she did not want to get him into trouble.'

Panel chairman Claire Sharp said: 'Patient A was a vulnerable patient whose vulnerability was demonstrated to Dr Zaccheddu through her deep distress and 'begging' him for help.

'The proper professional boundaries between patient and doctor were repeatedly breached by Dr Zaccheddu through the creation of an inappropriate emotional relationship, numerous inappropriate text messages for non-clinical purposes, and his actions in meeting Patient A socially and engaging in sexual intercourse with her.

'The evidence shows that there was an escalating pattern of breaches of the proper professional boundary between patient and doctor by Dr Zaccheddu. He abused the trust that Patient A placed in him as a doctor, which led to Patient A feeling unable to continue with him as her surgeon.'

The Manchester hearing was told the woman had undergone breast augmentation surgery by another doctor but claimed it was botched and she was left with a 'deformity.'

She consulted Dr Zacchedu and urged him to correct the surgery and agreed to carry out a 'remedial' operation.

But between May and July 2018, the pair exchanged texts in which he referred to her as 'babe' and ending them with kisses.

When she was admitted for surgery on July 15 2018 she said she felt uncomfortable whilst he carried out his pre-operative markings in her claiming he got 'too close to her' by putting his hand on her lower back and pulling her towards him resulting in his face next to her stomach,

GMC lawyer Louise Kitchin said: 'Following her discharge, she received a text message asking about recovery from surgery and he was telling her she was a "beautiful girl" and he would give her her 'sexiness back'.

'She saw him again for a post-operative appointment and at the end of it he hugged and kissed her and although that was on the cheek she felt at the time he was going to kiss her on the lips.

Texts became more frequent and the texts available suggest Patient A wrote to Dr Zacchedu 'I owe you a nice meal'. He also invited her for a drink saying 'a glass of wine would make her feel better'.

In August 2018 she met him at the Grill on New York Street in Manchester - the same street as the hospital group's clinic. After meeting Dr Zaccheddu she went with him to the Malmaison Hotel where he was staying, the GMC heard.

Plastic surgeon Dr Zaccheddu (left and right) was also accused of being inappropriate with the woman during consultations

Miss Kitchin said: 'They continued to drink whilst in the bar, he then invited her to his hotel room.

'Dr Zaccheddu later gave his account and he accepted he had made a number of errors of judgement. He said the text messages were initially based on a desire to help Patient A to make sure she was reassured and would have a better outcome for her. but he did accept over time they became more friendly.

'He said she initiated the contact and as the messages went on they became more flirtatious she invited him to meet her at the Grill and afterwards they both went to his hotel. She bought a bottle of red wine from the bar and then suggested that they go to his room, he accepted that they had gone to his hotel room and sexual intercourse had taken place.

'Afterwards he had contacted Patient A to tell her she had left a pair of earrings and agreed to return them. But some weeks later, she sent a text message asking him not to contact her again and she would feel uncomfortable meeting him again.

'He recognised he had made a serious mistake meeting her socially and didn't contact her again once she had asked him not to do so.'

Miss Kitchen added: 'Dr Zaccheddu abused the trust of a vulnerable patient, He was aware Patient A was distressed about her deformity and unhappy about her appearance. He failed to establish a clear boundary between his professional practice and his personal life and was aware of his growing attachment to Patient A.'

Zacchetu, from Edgbaston, Birmingham, who has since attended a course of maintaining professional boundaries told the hearing: 'She was a really begging person and I had a human urge to help someone in difficulty. She had been feeling down and I tried to give her a little bit of confidence. She was a patient with a problem obviously she was a vulnerable girl but it wasn't in my conscious mind.'

He will face a review hearing at a later date.