Christmas came early to visitors at El Matador beach in Malibu on Wednesday as Blanca Blanco posed on the sand in festive red underwear and a seasonal Santa hat.

The actress and model showed off her curves during a photoshoot on El Matador, one of three picturesque coastal locations within Robert H. Meyer Memorial State Beach.

With her skimpy lace bikini inevitably commanding attention, Blanca, 38, struck a series of poses while parading across the sand.

Wrapping paper not required: Christmas came early to visitors at El Matador State Beach in Malibu on Wednesday as Blanca Blanco posed on the sand in festive red underwear and a seasonal Santa hat

With the beach providing a sweeping view of the Pacific Ocean, the brunette took the opportunity to admire the view after settling down close to the shoreline.

Blanca also ensured the rocky outcrops and cliffs surrounding the beach were put to good use by using them as a rugged backdrop while displaying her lithe physique.

The American star will likely be spending Christmas with boyfriend John Savage, 70 - best known for his starring role in 70s war drama The Deer Hunter.

Breathtaking: Blanca took in the view of the Pacific coastline while relaxing on the sand

Don't mind me: The actress and model showed off her curves during a photoshoot on El Matador, one of three picturesque coastal locations within Robert H. Meyer Memorial State Beach

This is the life: Blanca reclined on the sand as she gazed out at the ocean during Wednesday's shoot

Blanco became a media sensation last year when she attended the Golden Globe Awards in a crimson Atria Couture gown.

Her wardrobe choice flew in the fashion of the evening's fashion trend, which was to wear black in order to signal support for the Time's Up movement.

Blanco told The Hollywood Reporter that her dress was one of only a few that survived when her home was destroyed by the Woolsey Fire destroyed.

Striking: Blanca ensured the rocky outcrops and cliffs surrounding the beach were put to good use by using them as a rugged backdrop while displaying her lithe physique

Here we go: The American star leaned against the rocks as her photoshoot got underway on Wednesday

Sand between her toes: Blanca padded across the sand close to the sweeping Pacific shoreline

Santa baby: The brunette was no doubt an engaging sight to any visitors on El Matador beach

Plans: The American star will likely be spending Christmas with boyfriend John Savage, although the couple have not been seen together in public for some time

'I grabbed maybe six dresses, my passport and my bunny. But I did save my Golden Globes dress,' she said at the time.

Amid a storm of online backlash related to the dress, Blanca insisted to Fox News: 'I love red. Wearing red does not mean I am against the movement.'

Said she: 'I applaud and stand by the courageous actresses that continue to break the cycle of abuse through their actions and fashion style choices.

The gift of Christmas: Blanca's Santa hat have her latest photoshoot a festive flourish

I say: Blanca's appearance follows a series of similar bikini shoots carried out in coastal locations around Malibu

Toned and trim: The model's slender physique dominated as she prepared for another shot

Peachy: The brunette's bottom was on full display as she strolled across the beach

Happy couple: Blanca and John are thought to have embarked on a relationship in 2014 after they were first spotted together on Malibu Beach

'It is one of many factors leading women to a safer place because of their status. I am excited about the #TimesUp movement; true change is long overdue.'

Blanca's upcoming movie releases include The Dog Of Christmas, a children's comedy that also stars John, whom she has been with for over a decade.

She is also appearing with John in Ovid And The Art Of Love, which transplants the Augustine Roman poet's biography to Detroit in the modern day.

Refreshing: The model made her way to the surf as she prepared for a refreshing dip in the ocean

Zen: Blanca enjoyed a quiet moment of reflection as she sat close to the shoreline

Previously: The brunette became a media sensation last year when she attended the Golden Globe Awards in a crimson Atria Couture gown



