Jurgen Klopp has hailed Takumi Minamino as a 'proper team player' after making the Red Bull Salzburg star his first signing of the January transfer window.

The Japan international has penned a long-term contract at Anfield after Liverpool beat Manchester United to his signature by activating his £7.25million release clause.

Minamino impressed Klopp and his players during two Champions League meetings this season - and the German is confident the 24-year-old will prove to be an excellent addition to his squad.

Takumi Minamino poses a photo after completing his £7.25million move to Liverpool

Jurgen Klopp has heaped praise on Minamino, describing him as a 'proper team player'

MINAMINO FACTFILE Age: 24 Clubs: Cerezo Osaka (2012-14), Red Bull Salzburg (2015-19), Liverpool (2020-present) Nationality: Japanese International caps: 22 Position: Forward 2019-20 stats Matches: 20 Goals: 7 Assists: 8

'This is fabulous news – a wonderful signing. We are really, really happy about this,' Klopp told Liverpoolfc.com.

'Our supporters have had the chance to see him close up recently so I don't need to sing too loudly about his qualities as they are already known.

'Takumi is a very quick, very clever player, he finds space between the lines. He is brave with the ball but also brave without the ball – a proper team player. He makes the best of himself for the benefit of others.

'His Champions League experience is a big bonus and coming from the club and organisation he does, we know he'll be well coached, used to an elite environment and had all the right experiences.

'It is fantastic work by our football operations team in how they've handled this transfer. Michael Edwards and the team deserve a lot of credit.'

Current Liverpool first-team stars Sadio Mane and Naby Keita both developed at Salzburg and Klopp believes it is an excellent club for talented young players.

The Japan star gives a thumbs up as he undergoes his medical with Liverpool on Wednesday

Minamino impressed during two Champions League meetings with Liverpool this season

'It's not hard to see why Salzburg is a favoured destination for players with real talent and hunger,' he added.

'From our experiences dealing with, and facing, Salzburg on and off the pitch in recent months, their reputation as a benchmark modern European club will only grow.

'I'm sure all the Liverpool supporters will go out of their way to make Takumi feel at home in our amazing city and club.

'I am also pretty sure as of now we have added to our numbers of the LFC family in Japan specifically. For those who follow us now because we have one of the country's most exciting talents, I say welcome – it's a special club to be part of.'

Minamino will wear the No 18 shirt at Liverpool and could make his debut in the FA Cup third round against Merseyside rivals Everton on January 5.