Andrea McLean has said that turning 50 made her 'evaluate' what she has achieved in life.

The Loose Women star and former weather presenter celebrated five decades in October.

She and her husband Nick Feeney also marked their second wedding anniversary in 2019.

Thinking: Andrea McLean said turning 50 made her 'evaluate' what she's achieved in life (pictured: Andrea and Nick Feeney marked their second wedding anniversary in 2019)

Andrea told Hello! magazine: 'Being 50 is awesome. It's a win-win age.

'If you do something really impressive, people are super impressed because you're 50, and if you don't want to do it, people say: 'Oh, it's fine, she's 50.'

'It's made me evaluate where I am, what I want to do and where I want to be.'

The TV host said she aimed to venture outside of her comfort zone in the new year.

Honest: Earlier this month Andrea revealed on Loose Women they have been going to couple's counselling 'for the last five months'

She added: 'Everything I'll be doing in 2020 is something I am passionate about.

'For me, it's more seeing what I'm capable of and pushing myself out of my comfort zone.

'I've kind of played it safe for the last 15 to 20 years. Now I'm looking up and thinking: 'What do I want to do?''

Positive: Andrea told Hello! magazine: 'Being 50 is awesome

Andrea and Nick's interview comes after the star revealed that she and him have been going to couple's counselling 'for the last five months'.

Andrea told Loose Women earlier this month the pair want to learn how to communicate with one another better as 'husband and wife, rather than just business partners.'

The presenter and her husband run a motivational website called This Girl Is On Fire - and Andrea admitted that working together has had its challenges.

She told her Loose Women co-hosts - Janet Street-Porter, Saira Khan and Coleen Nolan: 'It's difficult to draw the line between a work and home relationship.

'Nick and I have been going to counselling for the last five months or so,' she revealed as the panel discussed whether couples counselling is the perfect wedding gift.

Andrea admitted her friends were concerned when they heard the couple had sought professional help.

But Andrea was quick to reassure the panel that 'everything is great' in their two-year marriage.

She admitted the issue was learning 'how [to] communicate with each other where we see each other as husband and wife not just work partners.'

Andrea and Nick married in 2017 after meeting on a blind date in 2015. It is her third marriage.

The full article appears in Hello! magazine, out now.