LONDON (AP) - Prime Minister Boris Johnson signaled an end to Britain큦 era of Brexit deadlock Thursday, announcing a packed legislative program intended to take the U.K. out of the European Union on Jan. 31, overhaul everything from fishing to financial services and shore up the country큦 cash-starved public services.

The commanding House of Commons majority won by Johnson큦 Conservative Party in last week큦 general election all but guarantees he will be able to turn those promises into law, although with Brexit casting a shadow over the British economy, there큦 a question mark over how he will pay for it all.

In a speech delivered from a golden throne in Parliament by Queen Elizabeth II, Johnson opened the legislative floodgates after three years in which minority Conservative governments tried in vain to win lefglslators' backing for their Brexit plans.

"This is the moment to repay the trust of those who sent us here by delivering on the people's priorities," Johnson told lawmakers after the speech. "They want to move politics on and move the country on."

In less than 10 minutes, the monarch rattled through more than two dozen bills the government intends to pass in the coming year. The first will be the EU Withdrawal Agreement Bill, the law needed to make Brexit a reality, which is set to receive its first significant parliamentary vote on Friday.

The bill commits Britain to leaving the EU on Jan. 31 and to concluding trade talks with the bloc by the end of 2020. Trade experts and EU officials say striking a free trade deal within 11 months will be a struggle, but Johnson insists he won큧 agree to any more delays. That vow has set off alarm bells among businesses, who fear that means the country will face a "no-deal" Brexit at the start of 2021.

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Charles walk behind the Imperial State Crown as they arrive in the chamber for the State Opening of Parliament, in the House of Lords at the Palace of Westminster in London, Thursday Dec. 19, 2019. Queen Elizabeth II will formally open a new session of Britain's Parliament on Thursday, with a speech giving the first concrete details of what Prime Minister Boris Johnson plans to do with his commanding House of Commons majority. (Aaron Chown, Pool via AP)

The government also plans to pass several other Brexit-related measures, including a new "points-based" immigration system that will be introduced after Brexit, when EU citizens will lose the automatic right to live and work in the U.K.

There are also plans to overhaul agriculture, fishing, trade and financial services after Brexit in ways that will have a huge - though still largely unknown - effect on the British economy.

Johnson also promised "an ambitious program of domestic reform," including a law committing the government to spend more on the overstretched National Health Service after a decade-long funding squeeze by previous Conservative governments.

There were tough-sounding announcements on law and order, including longer sentences for people convicted of terrorist offenses and other serious crimes.

The speech also promised to "prioritize investment in infrastructure," and Johnson hinted he might revive an idea he큦 floated before: a bridge between Northern Ireland and Scotland. Engineers say spanning at least 12 miles (19 kilometers) of the deep and stormy Irish Sea would be difficult to impossible.

Asked by a Northern Ireland lawmaker in Parliament whether he planned to build the "Boris bridge," Johnson said: "Watch this space, and indeed ... watch that space between those islands."

Several of the measures are likely to prove contentious. The government said it would hold a sweeping review of defense and foreign policy, and set up a "Constitution, Democracy and Rights Commission" that could lead to reform of institutions including the Supreme Court. The court angered the government by ruling in September that Johnson큦 decision to suspend Parliament was illegal.

Shami Chakrabarti, justice spokeswoman for the opposition Labour Party, called the proposal "vindictive revenge" and "another play from the Book of Trump."

The government also intends to pass a law protecting military veterans from "vexatious" prosecutions. The question of whether veterans who served decades ago in Northern Ireland should be open to criminal prosecution is hugely controversial.

Also proposed is a ban on public institutions taking part in "boycott, divestment or sanctions campaigns against foreign countries and those who trade with them" without the government큦 approval. The move is aimed at universities that have boycotted Israel over its treatment of the Palestinians.

The government also promised to lessen regional inequality and bring greater unity to the United Kingdom, which is made up of England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. But Brexit is making that more difficult. Scotland voted to remain in the EU in Britain큦 2016 referendum, and last week most Scottish seats in Parliament were won by the anti-Brexit, pro-independence Scottish National Party.

SNP leader Nicola Sturgeon says Scotland should be able to hold a vote on independence, an option Scots rejected in a 2014 referendum that was billed as a "once-in-a-generation" event.

Sturgeon said she had formally written to the prime minister requesting the power to hold a new independence vote.

"The alternative is a future that we have rejected being imposed upon us," Sturgeon said in Edinburgh. "Scotland made it very clear last week it does not want a Tory government led by Boris Johnson taking us out of the European Union."

Johnson has said he will refuse, and the two sides look set for a slow-burning constitutional showdown.

The Queen's Speech was the centerpiece of the State Opening of Parliament, a blend of politics and pageantry that usually takes place about once a year. Britain saw its last state opening just two months ago, soon after Johnson took over as prime minister from Theresa May through a Conservative Party leadership contest and shortly before the early election that returned him to power.

The pomp was toned down for the queen's second visit this year. There were still officials with titles like Black Rod, scarlet-clad yeomen of the guard and lords in ermine-trimmed robes. But the 93-year-old monarch was driven from Buckingham Palace to Parliament in a car, rather than a horse-drawn carriage, and wore a pale blue dress and matching hat rather than robes and a diamond-studded crown.

Johnson will make his mark on the government more decisively in the new year, when he shakes up his Cabinet and the structure of government. Johnson's office confirmed that one ministry, the Department for Exiting the European Union, will be abolished after Britain leaves the bloc Jan. 31.

Anand Menon, director of political think-tank U.K. in a Changing Europe, said that, with his 80-strong majority in the 650-seat House of Commons, Johnson was in a "very, very strong position."

"It's been so long since we've seen an effective majority government that for the first few months of this one I think we'll just sit there going 'Wow, they're getting things done,'" Menon told the BBC.

__

Follow AP's full coverage of Brexit and British politics at: https://www.apnews.com/Brexit

Members of the House of Lords and guests in the chamber ahead of the State Opening of Parliament by Queen Elizabeth II, in London, Thursday Dec. 19, 2019. Queen Elizabeth II formally opened a new session of Britain's Parliament on Thursday, with a speech giving the first concrete details of what Prime Minister Boris Johnson plans to do with his commanding House of Commons majority. (Aaron Chown, Pool via AP)

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and the Prince of Wales sit in the chamber ahead of the State Opening of Parliament by the Queen, in the House of Lords at the Palace of Westminster in London, Thursday Dec. 19, 2019. Queen Elizabeth II will formally open a new session of Britain's Parliament on Thursday, with a speech giving the first concrete details of what Prime Minister Boris Johnson plans to do with his commanding House of Commons majority. (Aaron Chown, Pool via AP)

Britain's Prime Minister Boris Johnson, left, and opposition Labour Party Leader Jeremy Corbyn, walk through the Commons Members Lobby, during the state opening of Parliament, in London, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. Queen Elizabeth II formally opened a new session of Britain's Parliament on Thursday, with a speech giving the first concrete details of what Prime Minister Boris Johnson plans to do with his commanding House of Commons majority. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth, Pool)

Members of the Household Cavalry parade through the Sovereign's entrance ahead of the State Opening of Parliament by Queen Elizabeth II, in the House of Lords at the Palace of Westminster in London, Thursday Dec. 19, 2019. (Victoria Jones, Pool via AP)

Yeoman Warders conduct the traditional ceremonial search in the Palace of Westminster during the start of the state opening of parliament in London, Thursday Dec. 19, 2019. Queen Elizabeth II will formally open a new session of Britain's Parliament, with a speech giving the first concrete details of what Prime Minister Boris Johnson plans to do with his commanding new majority. (Richard Pohle, Pool via AP)

In this image taken from video, Prime Minister Boris Johnson speaks in the House of Commons, London, Tuesday Dec. 17, 2019. Buoyed by a Conservative majority in Parliament, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson signaled Tuesday he won't soften his Brexit stance, ruling out any extension of an end-of-2020 deadline to strike a trade deal with the European Union. (House of Commons via AP)

Britain's union flag flies from the Victoria Tower at parliament in London, Monday, Dec. 16, 2019. Newly elected lawmakers are convening at parliament Monday following the Dec. 12 general election. (AP Photo/Alberto Pezzali)

Britain's Prime Minister Boris Johnson, centre left, and opposition Labour Party Leader Jeremy Corbyn, right, walk through the Commons Members Lobby, during the state opening of Parliament, in London, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. Queen Elizabeth II formally opened a new session of Britain's Parliament on Thursday, with a speech giving the first concrete details of what Prime Minister Boris Johnson plans to do with his commanding House of Commons majority. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth, Pool)

Gentlemen at Arms relax and prepare for the arrival of the Queen at the Norman Porch during the State Opening of Parliament at the Houses of Parliament in London, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. Queen Elizabeth II will formally open a new session of Britain's Parliament on Thursday, with a speech giving the first concrete details of what Prime Minister Boris Johnson plans to do with his commanding House of Commons majority. (Ben Stansall/Pool Photo via AP)

Members of the House of Lords take their seats in the chamber for the State Opening of Parliament by Queen Elizabeth II, in the House of Lords at the Palace of Westminster in London, Thursday Dec. 19, 2019. (Aaron Chown, Pool via AP)

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Charles arrive back at Buckingham Palace after the state opening of Parliament, in London, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. Queen Elizabeth II will formally open a new session of Britain's Parliament, with a speech giving the first concrete details of what Prime Minister Boris Johnson plans to do with his commanding new majority. (AP Photo/Alberto Pezzali)

Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon sets out the case for a second referendum on Scottish independence, during a statement at Bute House in Edinburgh, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. (Neil Hanna/PA via AP)

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II walks with Prince Charles through the Royal Gallery before delivering the Queen's Speech at the State Opening of Parliament ceremony at the Palace of Westminster and the Houses of Parliament in London, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. (AP Photo/Matt Dunham, Pool)

Britain's Queen Elizabeth II sits in the chamber ahead of the State Opening of Parliament, in the House of Lords at the Palace of Westminster in London, Thursday Dec. 19, 2019. Queen Elizabeth II will formally open a new session of Britain's Parliament on Thursday, with a speech giving the first concrete details of what Prime Minister Boris Johnson plans to do with his commanding House of Commons majority. (Aaron Chown, Pool via AP)

Lady Usher of Black Rod Sarah Clarke heads a procession through the Central Lobby to the Lords chamber during the State Opening of Parliament by Queen Elizabeth II, in the House of Lords at the Palace of Westminster in London, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. (Adrian Dennis/Pool Photo via AP)

Britain's Speaker of The House of Commons Sir Lindsay Hoyle walks through the Commons Members Lobby in Parliament, in London, Thursday, Dec. 19, 2019. Britain's parliament returns following the election, for the State Opening of Parliament. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth, Pool)