It came after a debate questioned whether the term should be branded a hate crime.

And Carol Vorderman has defiantly said that she is proud to be known as a 'geek,' as she appeared on Thursday's Good Morning Britain.

The former Countdown star, 58, joked that she still likes to ring up her daughter Katie, 28, and call her a 'nerd child,' and she's been embracing the family traits with a job as a research scientist in Cambridge.

Strong: Carol Vorderman has defiantly said that she is proud to be known as a 'geek,' following a Good Morning Britain debate about whether the term should be a hate crime

Speaking to Ben Shephard and Ranvir Singh, Carol was asked about her take on the term 'geek,' after psychotherapist Dr Sonja Falck claimed the term should be considered a hate crime.

The star has long been known for her amazing brain, having been the letters and numbers guru on Countdown from 1982 to 2008.

Carol said she is proud of her knowledgeable status, and she even likes to poke fun at her daughter, who works in Cambridge as a research scientist.

Clever: The presenter, has long been known for her incredible brain and knowledge of maths, have been the words and numbers guru on Countdown from 1982 to 2008 (pictured in 1984)

Strong: Carol said on Thursday's Good Morning Britain that she views being a geek as 'a badge of honour'

Views: She said: 'My age group people might have taken the mick out of you for it, but nowadays geeks rule the world so it's very much a badge of honour'

She said: 'It's a badge of honour, my daughter Katie is a research scientist in nanotechnology at Cambridge, I call her up and see ''hello geek/nerd child.''

'My age group people might have taken the mick out of you for it, but nowadays geeks rule the world so it's very much a badge of honour. I still buy my children these funny science things with maths symbols.'

Back in June Carol revealed that her daughter Katie is already following in her footsteps with a love of space, after the pair visited the Johnson Space Centre in Houston, Texas for a segment on The One Show.

Playful: The star also joked that she still calls her daughter Katie, 28, a 'nerd child,' as she follows in her footsteps with a job as a research scientist at Cambridge

Opinionated: Carol added: 'I still buy my children these funny science things with maths symbols'

At the time Katie was finishing her PhD in nanotechnology at Cambridge University, and Carol said she 'loves her science' as they visited the centre.

Katie is Carol's daughter from her second marriage to management consultant Patrick King, and the former couple also share son Cameron, 22.

Carol was a guest on GMB to chat about an upcoming ITV special which celebrates 20 years of the Pride Of Britain Awards, and is set to air on Sunday.

The presenter has hosted the annual awards show since its inception, and it awards members of the public who have acted extraordinarily in challenging situations.

Speaking about being involved in the awards show, Carol said it's 'changed her life,' being the face of the awards, and went onto say she sees messages on social media pointing out people they think would be a good pick to receive an award.

Good Morning Britain airs weekdays at 6am on ITV.