Anthony Joshua has backed Tyson Fury's decision to replace his trainer, arguing that a fighter has to 'follow his instinct'.

Fury split amicably from trainer Ben Davison this week after two years working together, enlisting the services of Javan 'Sugar' Hill ahead of his rematch with Deontay Wilder on February 22.

His move came in contrast to Joshua, who stuck with his coach Rob McCracken following his surprise defeat by Andy Ruiz Jr earlier this year and was vindicated when he won the rematch this month.

Tyson Fury has split with trainer Ben Davison (right) ahead of rematch with Deontay Wilder

World heavyweight champion Anthony Joshua (above) backed Fury's decision to swap trainers

Davison says that he and Fury remain friends and has encouraged him to beat Deontay Wilder

But Joshua doesn't blame Fury for making the switch despite the short time frame before the rematch with Wilder.

He told Sky Sports: 'Fury has to do what is right for him. Tyson's success is Ben's success.

'If Fury feels like this is right for him, he has to trust his instinct and follow it because it will only be him that [is in the ring].

'I have to trust my instincts. I was watching a Lennox Lewis fight - he had Emanuel Steward in his corner but they still only announce 'Lennox Lewis.' They don't mention the team.

'Tyson Fury has to do what's right for Tyson Fury because it's only his name that is mentioned when announced as the winner or the loser.

'As a fighter, first and foremost, it doesn't matter about anyone else.'

Joshua defeated Andy Ruiz Jr in a rematch in Saudi Arabia this month to reclaim his lost belts

Davison had worked with 31-year-old Fury since 2017 but announced on Twitter they had parted ways, though insisted they are still friends.

Fury later revealed that he will now work under Hill, the nephew of the late trainer Steward.

Fury had previously worked with Steward out of the Kronk gym in Detroit and used social media to post a picture of them both, along with Hill and former world champion Andy Lee, with the caption: 'Getting the old team back up and running'.

Davison said on Twitter: 'Obviously it's not gonna stop until there's an answer, Tyson and myself had to both make decisions for our careers, which resulted in our working relationship coming to an end.

'HOWEVER, we remain friends and he will SMASH the DOSSER!!'

Obviously it’s not gonna stop until there’s an answer, Tyson and myself had to both make decisions for our careers, which resulted in our working relationship coming to an end, HOWEVER, we remain friends and he will SMASH the DOSSER!! — Ben Davison (@BenDavison_) December 15, 2019

Davison had been in Fury's corner for two years, including during his draw with Wilder

Davison had been the main man in Fury's corner during the original bout with Wilder at Staples Center in 2018, with the two fighters battling it out across a 12-round draw.

Despite playing a key role in the British star's comeback, Davison had been slammed for Fury's lacklustre display against Otto Wallin in September.

The gruelling 12-round encounter in Las Vegas had seen the Swedish southpaw open up a sizeable cut above Fury's right eye in the third round, before Fury fought back to clinch victory by unanimous decision despite his impaired vision.

Tyson's father John Fury even heavily criticised Davison and called for his sacking following his son's below-par showing.

Fury and Davison had been slammed after the heavyweight's poor showing against Otto Wallin

Davison was present for Wilder's seventh-round knockout of Luis Ortiz on November 23 to scout Fury's future opponent ahead of their second showdown.

Fury's now-former coach had helped the 6ft 9in giant battle against alcoholism, cocaine addiction and depression following his upset against Wladimir Klitschko in 2015.

Davison also helped the fighter lose 100 pounds during his remarkable recovery.

Fury had recovered from two knockdowns against Wilder in the first bout, with the pair set to fight again on February 22.

Joshua insisted that he never considered replacing McCracken following the Ruiz defeat, instead adding extra coaches and new sparring partners before the rematch.

On the criticism McCracken received he said: 'It was from a healthy place. The following we've created comes from people who have criticised and people who support. There are two sides to the coin.

Joshua stuck with his coach Rob McCracken despite the shock defeat to Ruiz earlier this year

'I stuck to my guns, didn't listen, and stayed with Rob. We spoke to alternative coaches. When me and Rob are doing pads we need eyes on the outside to say "your left hand is down" or "your chin is up".

'We created a team which worked really well. In a short space of time he corrected mistakes.

'He has seen me grow. I had a son - it was a scary time because I was young, but he helped me through it. He backed me, and I've backed him. We have supported each other.'