The Bank of England has warned that the risks posed by climate change to the financial sector must be dealt with in order to maintain its stability.

The warning comes in a new discussion paper which sets out how the bank will measure the risks that global warming poses to banks and insurance firms.

It says climate change creates both physical and transition risks for financial companies and that while the physical risks are already causing problems for the sector, the transition risks provide an opening for it to invest in clean energy.

Bank of England Governor Mark Carney calls the BES 'a pioneering exercise, which builds on the considerable progress in addressing climate related risks that has already been made by firms, central banks and regulators

As part of the Biennial Exploratory Scenario (BES), Britain's biggest banks and insurers will be tested on a range of climate change scenarios to find any cracks in their preparations for global warming.

The Bank of England said it will test companies in the second half of 2020 to check how well they can weather three different climate scenarios.

It said: 'Risks are already starting to crystallise, and have the potential to increase substantially in the future.'

Its governor Mark Carney said: 'The BES is a pioneering exercise, which builds on the considerable progress in addressing climate related risks that has already been made by firms, central banks and regulators.

'Climate change will affect the value of virtually every financial asset; the BES will help ensure the core of our financial system is resilient to those changes.'

The bank has laid out five key features of the BES, which include measuring financial firms' resilience to three different climate change scenarios, and a 30-year timeline for measuring the risks that global warming will likely have on business.

The three scenarios involved range from taking action quickly to achieve the Paris climate agreement target of keeping temperature increases to below 2°C by 2050, to taking no additional action to achieve such a goal.

The bank will also involve testing the strength of both banks and insurers to the multiple climate-related risks with insurers facing a stress test in two years' time.

Greenpeace protesters stage a protest at Amsterdam Schiphol Airport. Last year, an Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report declared that the world had to be carbon-neutral by 2050 to ensure temperatures do not rise 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels

Governor Carney has already warned that financial firms which don't make the necessary investments to combat climate change will go to the wall.

In an interview with Channel 4 News back in July, he told presenter Jon Snow: 'Companies that don't adapt, including companies in the financial system, will go bankrupt without question. But also, there will be great fortunes made along this path aligned with what society wants.'

The bank has warned that $20trillion of assets could be lost by the financial sector if insufficient efforts to tackle climate change happen.

Activists like teenager Greta Thunberg (above) have been campaigning for governments and businesses to do more to tackle the problem of global warming

Worries about the financial and ecological damage resulting from the climate emergency have become more publicised over the last few years, with activists like teenager Greta Thunberg campaigning for governments and businesses to do more to tackle the problem.

Last year, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) produced a report which declared that the world had until 2030 to cut carbon emissions by 45 per cent from 2010 levels and be carbon-neutral by 2050 to ensure temperatures do not rise 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.

Sarah Breeden, the executive director sponsor for climate change stated: 'None of us can know exactly how climate change will unfold, but we do know that it will create risks to the financial system.

'I am excited that this ground-breaking exercise will for the first time allow us to quantify this risk and so determine the actions we need to take today if we are to minimise these future risks.'