She rose to prominence as a member of R&B girl group Eternal over two decades ago, before launching a successful solo career.

And Louise Redknapp proved she is still at the top of her game on Sunday as she posted a racy snap on Instagram.

In the picture, Louise, 45, displayed her taught abs and a glimpse of underboob as she pulled her t-shirt off of her braless upper half.

Looking good: Louise Redknapp, 45, proved she is still at the top of her game on Sunday as she posted a racy snap on Instagram in which she displayed a glimpse of underboob

The pop star added a bright smile in the snap, while a tattoo was clearly visible on the left side of her chest.

She then further enticed fans with a saucy caption, writing: 'Just give me a minute'.

Fans commenting on the image praised the star for her 'natural beauty', while others joked 'we are waiting'.

Louise rose to fame as a member of girl group Eternal, which was formed in 1992.

Wild: Fans commenting on the image praised the star for her 'natural beauty', while others joked 'we are waiting'

The former WAG, who was married to former Tottenham player Jamie Rednkapp until 2017, left the group in 1995 to launch her solo career.

Her debut album Naked was released in July 1996 and peaked at number seven in the UK Albums Chart, followed by 1997's Woman in Me and Elbow Beach in 2000. She took a break from the music industry in 2004 to focus on parenthood.

Meanwhile, the songstress recently admitted her latest album, which is due for release in 2020, is about heartbreak - sure to court questions from those who listen to it.

But the singer has insisted she doesn't intend any negativity to come from her singles - and that she still has respect for Jamie, who she was married to for 19 years.

Back in the day: Louise rose to fame as a member of girl group Eternal, which was formed in 1992 (Pictured left to right: Kéllé Bryan, Vernie Bennett, Louise and Easther Bennett)

Confidence: The former WAG, who was married to former footballer Jamie Rednkapp until 2017, left the group in 1995 to launch a solo career (pictured: Louise at the 02 Fashion Awards)

During their relationship, Louise and the former footballer, 46, welcomed sons, Charles, 15, and Beau, 10.

'If I am asked about that stuff then I'm certainly not going to slander or be unkind,' she told MailOnline.

'There's nothing unkind to say. I have a huge respect for Jamie and his family.

'You don't spend 20 years with someone and not care about them still. Yes, there are good days and bad days. And the best songs are written when you're feeling heartbroken.'

Louise - who had to push the album release back to 2020 due to her manic schedule touring with musical Nine To Five - revealed she is fully aware that promoting the music will mean she is asked probing questions about the subtext of the songs.

She said: 'When [the album] does come out I obviously want to talk about it. Talk about the songs and about why I wrote them. And it's already been well-documented that it's personal.

'I'm realistic, and I know the music inside and out. And when people hear the music that will actually stop [people speculating what it's about]. I write from the heart and it's an uplifting and positive album.

'The feelings I have put into the lyrics - they're feelings that we have all felt during a time of our lives. They're emotions. The heart is the heart. Sometimes in life it all goes perfectly, sometime's things just go pear shaped.'

Co-parenting: During their relationship, Louise and the former footballer, 46, welcomed sons, Charles, 15, and Beau, 10 (pictured in December 2018)