Online retailer eBay has revealed exactly what Brits have been searching for and purchasing this year, based on the most popular cultural trends of 2019.

From Game of Thrones-inspired interior design to Christmas advert merchandise, its Year in Buy report suggests shoppers were hugely influenced by what they saw on TV.

Male co-ord searches were up by 230 per cent after Joe Garrett sported a matching Hawaiian shirt and swim shorts on Love Island, and Stranger Things influenced shoppers to seek out retro gadgets.

Perhaps unsurprisingly, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex inspired one of the biggest interior trends of the year thanks to their 'gender neutral' nursery for baby Archie at Frogmore Cottage.

Following the revelation about their decor choice, eBay noticed a surge in searches for grey paint and Scandi-style nursery interiors.

Here, a look back at the trends that have defined our shopping habits this year.

The biggest eBay trends of 2019 Storage boxes inspired by Marie Kondo Bee bricks inspired by a Wildlife Trust officer Interior design inspired by Game of Thrones Gender neutral paint inspired by The Duke and Duchess of Sussex Personalised water bottles and swimwear inspired by Love Island Stranger Things inspired gadgets Baker boy caps inspired by Peaky Blinders Christmas advert merchandise Based on data compiled by eBay.

Storage boxes inspired by Marie Kondo: Marie Kondo's TV series premiered on January 2nd - and in the following week, purchases for 'Marie Kondo' surged by nearly 200 per cent on eBay UK. Shoppers bought one packing box and nearly six storage boxes every minute

Bee bricks inspired by a Wildlife Trust officer: Buzz was generated around the bee brick (a device which allows solitary bees to make a home) after a Wildlife Trust officer revealed he had installed one in a viral tweet. It caused bee brick searches to fly up 175 per cent and seven bee hives to be sold every hour on eBay UK

Interior design inspired by Game of Thrones: When the last Game of Thrones series hit the nation's screens on 14th April 2019, eBay witnessed a 45 per cent spike in searches of thrones - in comparison to when the seventh season aired in 2018. Game of Thrones also became an interior design trend, as sheepskin rugs, goblets and iron chandeliers also proved popular

Gender neutral paint inspired by Harry and Meghan: Following the announcement in May that Prince Harry and Meghan Markle had opted for a gender-neutral nursery at Frogmore Cottage, eBay noticed an increase in searches for grey paint and Scandi-style nursery interiors. Soon-to-be-parents preferred grey paint to blue and pink paint by 118 per cent and 98 per cent respectively. They also ditched bright plastic toys in favour of wooden ones, with searches for more traditional toys rising 454 per cent between April and May

Personalised water bottles and swimwear inspired by Love Island: After the first week of the series in June, there was a 201 per cent growth in searches for the much-sought after personalised water bottles. There was also a 313 per cent increase in searches for neon bikinis - and male co-ord searches were up by 230 per cent after contestant Joe Garratt stepped out in his matching Hawaiian shirt and swim shorts. Pictured, Dani Dyer on last year's show

Stranger Things inspired gadgets: Following the launch of Stranger Things season three, eBay UK also spotted unprecedented sales figures. Fans of the show searched for retro 80s tech gadgets 96 per cent more between 4th and 8th July, compared to the same period the month before. 135 searches were made per hour for boom boxes and 3000 searches a day for Polaroid cameras

Baker boy caps inspired by Peaky Blinders: Following the series premiere of season five of Peaky Blinders, Brits flocked to eBay to recreate the Shelby Brothers' iconic 1920s style. Searches for Baker boy caps sky-rocketed by 300 per cent, and those for penny collar shirts were up 200 per cent compared to the month before