A woman dubbed 'The World's Hottest Grandma' has found financial success selling adults-only content online after being 'shadow banned' from Instagram.

Gina Stewart, 49, was forced to join the X-rated subscription-based service OnlyFans this year after the Instagram algorithm started hiding and restricting her content for being too raunchy.

Speaking to Daily Mail Australia, the mother-of-four said that the ban had stopped her from gaining new followers and affected her ability to make money with sponsored posts, leaving her with no choice but to migrate to OnlyFans.

EXCLUSIVE: The World's Hottest Grandma Gina Stewart (pictured) is now raking in thousands of dollars a month selling raunchy photos of herself after being banned from Instagram

For $10 a month, Gina's fans can access exclusive 'Playboy-esque' photos and videos of the model that can't be shared on platforms like Instagram due to their explicit nature.

'I decided to start an OnlyFans account this year so I could connect with my supporters without Instagram's unfair censorship,' she explained.

'Instagram has become way too PC and keeps hiding all of my photos even though I'm covered up. It was completely unfair because they let other models get away with much worse.'

Exposed: For $10 a month, Gina's fans can access exclusive 'Playboy-esque' photos and videos of the model that can't be shared on platforms like Instagram due to their explicit nature

Thanks to OnlyFans, the Gold Coast grandmother is now earning thousands of dollars a month and was able to move out of her Sunshine Coast apartment and into a lavish four-bedroom waterfront home with a pool and Jacuzzi.

'OnlyFans is way better than Instagram because I can post whatever I want and interact with my fans on a much more intimate level,' she said.

'Now I live a great lifestyle thanks to my beautiful fans who support me. I've been able to afford a $1.3 million home for myself and my daughter, I drive a Mercedes and I own two jet skis.'

'I drive a Mercedes and I own two jet-skis!' The mother-of-four now leads a lavish lifestyle thanks to her lucrative OnlyFans account

She continued: 'But the best part is that I can work from home and be a full time mother to my daughter Summer. She's only six so being there for her is the most important thing to me.'

The blonde bombshell is now in the top 2.5% of all creators on OnlyFans, but unlike many others on the platform, she claims that her content is tasteful and not pornographic.

'I keep my content glamorous and sexy unlike other models who bare what they had for breakfast. It’s all in the tease,' she explained.

Gina spoke out about Instagram's strict censorship back in July, when a photo she posted of herself posing topless with her blonde hair covering her chest was removed from the site for violating guidelines.

If you've got it, flaunt it! The 49-year-old was able to purchase a Mercedes this year

'I've been able to afford a $1.3 million home for myself and my daughter': Gina was able to move out of her Sunshine Coast apartment and into a lavish four-bedroom waterfront home with a pool and Jacuzzi (pictured)

At the time, she accused the social media giant of ageism and claimed an equivalent image showing a younger woman would not have been removed.

'The app was fine with allowing people to freely express themselves while it was building itself as an app, but now it's become authoritative and dictatorial,' she said.

'I think it's the first time in this day and age a celebrity has been shut down and hidden away because their content isn't considered "PC".'

It has long been known images of female nipples may be removed for breaching Instagram guidelines, but in Gina's photo her nipples were covered by her blonde hair.

'I keep my content glamorous and sexy unlike other models who bare what they had for breakfast. It’s all in the tease,' she explained

The star added: 'I have felt forced to take a stand as the World's Hottest Grandma, and show what is happening to me. I'm not only fighting for my rights, I'm fighting for everyone.

'Next censorship will tell us what we can and cannot write on Instagram and social media in general.'

Gina, who boasts double E-cup breast implants, skyrocketed to fame in 2018 after racy photos she submitted to a Maxim modelling competition went viral.

She became an overnight sensation on Instagram and made several mainstream media appearances, including Channel 10's Hughesy, We Have a Problem and The Kyle and Jackie O Show.