The Jacksonville Jaguars fired top executive Tom Coughlin on Wednesday, parting ways with the two-time Super Bowl-winning coach a little more than a day after the NFL Players Union publicly warned its members about signing with a team that was punished for issuing improper fines.

The notorious taskmaster had been in trouble for weeks because of the team's sagging record and several questionable roster moves. The NFLPA seemingly forced owner Shad Khan's hand after an arbitrator's decision to undo millions in fines imposed by Coughlin himself.

The NFLPA said Monday that more than 25 percent of player grievances filed in the last two years have been against the Jaguars. In the memo, the NFLPA warned: 'You as players may want to consider this when you have a chance to select your next club.'

'The jointly appointed arbitrator rejected the Jaguars' arguments that they had a right to fine a player for not rehabbing at the club facility,' read the NFLPA statement, referring to defensive end Dante Fowler, who now plays for the Los Angeles Rams. 'He held that, with limited exceptions, offseason activities are "strictly voluntary," and no club can make those activities mandatory.'

Players have recently become more insistent on receiving outside medical treatment and training while voicing concerns about conflicts of interests among NFL medical staffs, who treat the athletes but are employed by the teams.

Jacksonville Jaguars sacked Tom Coughlin after players revolted against his tough rules. (Pictured: Coughlin at a game against the Miami Dolphins in Miami, Florida, this year)

Shahid Khan had planned on firing Coughlin after the season, but changed his mind this week

A former coach with the Jaguars and New York Giants, Coughlin served as executive vice president of football operations since 2017. It was his second stint with Jacksonville, the expansion franchise he helped build from the ground up in the mid-1990s.

'I determined earlier this fall that making this move at the conclusion of the 2019 season would be in everyone´s best interests,' Khan said in a statement. 'But, in recent days, I reconsidered and decided to make this change immediately.

'I thank Tom for his efforts, not only over the past three years but for all he did from our very first season, 25 years ago, to put the Jacksonville Jaguars on the map.'

Khan said general manager Dave Caldwell and head coach Doug Marrone will each report directly to him on an interim basis.

The players' union seemingly forced owner Shad Khan's to fire team president Tom Coughlin after an arbitrator's decision to undo millions in improper fines imposed by former coach

'My expectations, and those of our fans, for our final two games and the 2020 season are high,' Khan added.

The NFLPA grievances are a product of Coughlin's peccadillos, many of which come from a good place - that of an old-school coach who always believed that football was more than just a business.

But the rules that once seemed trifling - no sunglasses, all meetings start 5 minutes early - took a more sinister tone since Coughlin's return. He was still basking in the glow of two Super Bowl titles during his in-between stay as coach of the New York Giants that painted him as a man who had truly changed his ways.

Coughlin fined defensive end Dante Fowler more than $700,000 in 2018 for missing 'mandatory' appointments at the facility during the offseason. Problem was, the appointments weren't really mandatory - a reality cooked into the rule book after some hard-fought wins by the union in collective bargaining about how much time players were obliged to spend at team headquarters in the offseason. Fowler is now with the Rams

He fined defensive end Dante Fowler more than $700,000 in 2018 for missing 'mandatory' appointments at the facility during the offseason. Problem was, the appointments weren't really mandatory - a reality cooked into the rule book after some hard-fought wins by the union in collective bargaining about how much time players were obliged to spend at team headquarters in the offseason.

'During OTAs, that's what I was doing, and being with my kids,' Fowler said. 'Just working through that and being there. Other than that, I'm happy it went smoothly and went well. There´s a lot of great people in this organization that supported what I had to do, and I was just grateful I was able to get it turned around.'

'It was clear as day, just according to the rules,' Fowler said Wednesday. 'That was the initial thing I told the guys. I just brought that to the table, like, "You can't do this at a certain time.' 'I shouldn't be able to get fined during the offseason." Things like that. That's all it was. As long as I was able to get the money back in the offseason that I got fined, I was fine with that.'

Fowler also revealed Wednesday that he missed organized team activities with the Rams earlier this year partly because he was dealing with the arbitration around his unfair fines.

At one point Fowler tweeted that the Jaguars 'literally hated me,' adding that he 'got it all back though [thanks] to the NFLPA.'

Coughlin and the Jaguars have been on the wrong end of other high-profile battles against players - involving running back Leonard Fournette, cornerback Jalen Ramsey, who now plays for the Los Angeles Rams, and now-retired defensive end Jared Odrick.

At one point Fowler tweeted that the Jaguars 'literally hated me,' adding that he 'got it all back'

All involved fines or criticism of players who didn't act the way Coughlin liked, or failed to show up to voluntary sessions that the old coach always believed weren't really voluntary.

Although Ramsey wasn't around in the Rams' locker room Wednesday, he has made his feelings about his former employers known this week on social media.

After news of the Jaguars' arbitration loss Monday, Ramsey wrote on his Twitter account: "Tried to tell y'all," along with two frustration emojis.

After Coughlin was fired Wednesday, Ramsey tweeted two more emojis: A pair of eyes, followed by a face with a zippered mouth.

The pushback against Coughlin was as much a sign of the attitudes of players in the late 2010s as it is of their willingness to blindly follow a leader who hadn´t proven himself to them - regardless of whatever message those Super Bowl rings might have delivered.

As much as creating a mindset, ultimately, Coughlin was brought back to build a championship roster. In his first year back, it was trending that way, much the same as it was in the late 1990s, when he took the expansion franchise to the AFC title game twice in four years.

Coughlin and the Jaguars have been on the wrong end of other high-profile battles against players - involving running back Leonard Fournette, cornerback Jalen Ramsey (pictured), who now plays for the Los Angeles Rams, and now-retired defensive end Jared Odrick

Although Ramsey wasn't around in the Rams' locker room Wednesday, he has made his feelings about his former employers known this week on social media

After Coughlin's firing, Ramsey tweeted a pair of emoji eyes and a face with a zippered mouth

Led by a smothering defense that Coughlin helped build, Jacksonville fell to New England in the 2017 AFC title game after leading by 10 in the fourth quarter. Since then, however, Coughlin´s moves to try to bridge the gap have looked like massive cases of bad judgement and overreach, the likes of which mired the final four seasons (2000-03) of his first stint with the Jags.

The three most notable mistakes came at quarterback: the Jaguars drafted Fournette over Deshaun Watson, gave struggling quarterback Blake Bortles a three-year, $54 million contract and then handed $88 million ($50.125 guaranteed) to Nick Foles.

There were other problems raging throughout the roster, the locker room and the entire building.

Coughlin has developed a rift with coach Doug Marrone over Marrone's insistence on reducing the intensity and pace of practices at training camp, which came in direct conflict with what Coughlin has preached over his five-plus decades in football.

Marrone also wasn't pleased that Coughlin dealt Ramsey, a mercurial-but-talented player who was supposed to be a cornerstone of the franchise, to the Los Angeles Rams earlier this year after multiple flareups between the player and the VP.

Meanwhile, assistant coaches grew tired of receiving second-hand guidance that goes right down to the nuts and bolts of game-planning from a man who hasn't taken much time to get to know them.

All of this has turned one of the league's up-and-coming teams into a loser. The Jaguars have dropped 19 of their last 26 games, 11 of which have come by double digits, and six of those by 20 or more.