She's had a busy few months after filming her fifth series of American Horror Story and bagging the lead role in two movies.

But Emma Roberts indulged in a little 'me time' as she enjoyed a spot of retail therapy at the Ron Herman boutique in West Hollywood on Wednesday.

The actress, 28, looked stylish in a tan suede fringe-detail jacket, teamed with a charcoal grey tee and cropped jeans with a wide turn-up.

Shop 'til you drop: Emma Roberts indulged in a little 'me time' as she enjoyed a spot of retail therapy at the Ron Herman boutique in West Hollywood on Wednesday.

The Scream Queens star added height with a pair of funky animal print slingback heels, while toting a chocolate brown alligator-skin satchel bag.

Emma sheltered her eyes from the Californian winter sun with a pair of shades, and acccessorised with a delicate silver necklace.

The former child actress wore her blonde locks in a ponytail and opted for minimal makeup to display her naturally pretty features.

The screen beauty toted a shopping bag from the boutique, and carried a refreshing takeout cup of iced coffee.

Chic: The actress, 28, looked stylish in a tan suede fringe-detail jacket, teamed with a charcoal grey tee, cropped jeans with a wide turn-up and funky animal-print heels

Emma has received rave reviews from viewers and critics for her role in the slasher-themed American Horror Story: 1984.

It marked her fifth season on the long-running anthology horror series and her most prominent role on the show to date.

The season finale also was a pleasant departure for many viewers with its uncharacteristically upbeat ending.

The former child star will next be seen as the lead in upcoming Netflix romantic comedy film Holidate, which will soon start filming.

The actress has been dating actor Garrett Hedlund, 35, since March after ending her famously tumultuous relationship with former fiancé Evan Peters, 32, for good following numerous splits.

While Emma and Garrett have been friends for years, they are believed to have turned their friendship to romance at the start of the year.

Garrett was previously in a relationship with actress Kirsten Dunst, 37, for four years until March 2016.

Emma and Evan first started dating in 2012 after filming Adult World, and went on to work together again on American Horror Story for four seasons.

Talented: Emma has received rave reviews from viewers and critics for her role in the slasher-themed American Horror Story: 1984

In 2013, Emma was arrested after a fight that resulted in Evan being left with a bloody nose, but their representatives said it was simply a 'misunderstanding' and she was released after police questioning.

The couple got engaged later that year, but split briefly in 2015 and once again in 2016.

Since parting ways for a final time, Evan has moved on with pop star Halsey, 25, with the couple confirming their relationship in October.

Emma - the niece of Hollywood icon Julia Roberts, 52 - broke into the entertainment industry as a child, with a role alongside Johnny Depp and Penelope Cruz in 2001's Blow.