An Italian restaurant is offering its customers money off their bill if they hand over their phones to a waiter for the duration of their meal.

Casa Italia - voted the best in Liverpool at The British Restaurant Awards in June - has implemented a 'Let's Talk' scheme in order to encourage diners to spend quality time with their loved ones without distractions.

The initiative, which was brought in last month, sees customers who wish to take part surrender their phone to a waiter at the beginning of their meal.

Casa Italia in Liverpool has implemented a 'Let's Talk' scheme in order to encourage diners to spend quality time with their loved ones without distractions

The initiative, which was brought in last month, sees customers who wish to take part surrender their phone to a waiter at the beginning of their meal

It's locked away in a box while they eat, and a five per cent discount is then applied to their bill at the end of the night - at which point their phones are returned.

In an Instagram post, a team member from the 30-year-old restaurant wrote: 'We spend so much time with our loved ones, but are we really spending quality time with them?

'Meals out with family and friends are so important and we can all be guilty of spending most of it with our heads in our phones.

'So we want to make YOU really enjoy that time with your loved ones and really talk to each other. You will receive five per cent off your bill for taking part.

'Let us know your thoughts and if you'd be interested in giving it a go!'

Casa Italia shared an Instagram post explaining how the phone amnesty works - which received dozens of positive comments

Arran Campolucci-Bordi, owner and managing director of Casa Italia - pictured with the award for Best Restaurant in Liverpool following the British Restaurant Awards in June

Many regulars have been quick to praise the restaurant for its phone amnesty, with one branding it a 'great idea'.

Another commented: 'Brilliant idea!! People don't talk anymore, always on their phones.'

'We were there today, great food as always. Didn't look at our phones once!' one happy diner wrote.

And one added: 'I think this is amazing! I would definitely do this!'

Many regulars have been quick to praise the restaurant for its phone amnesty, with one branding it a 'great idea'

Speaking about the initiative, owner Arran Campolucci-Bordi told FEMAIL: 'It was my idea to start the Phone Amnesty or the Let’s Talk initiative. It came about because we saw so many families and groups of friends eating out together but we noticed that although they’ve all arranged to go for a meal together, they were all on their phones not talking to each other during the meal.

'It’s been so popular with everyone, even young people, but more than anything it’s just got people thinking about how important it is to not just be physically present during a meal but to actually spend quality time talking to each other.

'It’s amazing to see the response of people after the meal saying how refreshing it was to have deep conversations with each other - and actually not one participant so far said they missed having their phone with them.

'I hope that more restaurants across the city and across the country can start doing it to see the positive impact it has on people’s experiences during the meal. In my opinion, eating out together as a family are some of the most important and cherished moments we ever spend together.'