It's the exciting new film by Ryan Murphy, which he is making as part of his landmark five-year Netflix deal.

And Meryl Streep and James Corden looked in character as they wrapped another day of filming of The Prom in Los Angeles on Wednesday.

The Oscar-winning actress, 70, cut a stylish figure for her role as Dee Dee Allen in the flick, donning a red houndstooth blazer and a red shirt with a frilled detail.

On set: Meryl Streep, 70, looked in character as she wrapped another day of filming of The Prom in Los Angeles on Wednesday

Meryl's brunette locks were styled into a cropped hairdo and she also sported large dark earrings for the day of filming.

The Big Little Lies star looked in a good mood as she stood alongside members of the production crew for the upcoming musical-comedy.

James, 41, who plays a character named Barry Glickman, had a more casual look for the evening, wearing a black shirt under a navy cardigan and matching trousers.

Along with Meryl and James, The Prom also stars Nicole Kidman, who will play a character named Angie Dickinson.

Co-star: She was joined on set by her co-star James Corden, 41, who wore a black shirt under a navy cardigan and matching trousers

The trio are part of a troupe of washed-up Broadway stars starring in a play about Eleanor Roosevelt which is panned by critics.

The self-obsessed stars decide to try and resurrect their careers by moving to a small conservative town in Indiana, where they plan to support a teen girl's wish to take her girlfriend to the high school prom.

The Prom is part of Glee and American Horror Story creator Ryan Murphy's five-year deal with Netflix reported to be worth between $250 million and $300 million.

Plot: The film follows a group of Broadway stars who move to a small town in Indiana where they plan to support a teen girl's wish to take her girlfriend to the high school prom

Murphy has assembled an incredible cast for the film, as Awkwafina, Keegan-Michael Key, Kerry Washington, Ariana DeBose and Andrew Rannells join the lead stars.

It was announced last week that unknown actress Jo Ellen Pellman has been cast as the lead character Emma.

The film is an adaptation of the musical that premiered in Atlanta in 2016 and opened on Broadway in 2018, earning six Tony nominations.