A devastated father claims his beloved parrot Marlon Dingle died in his arms after suffocating on smoke from a blazing Hotpoint tumble dryer that caused £10,000 of damage to his home.

Takeaway owner Steven Patterson, 44, from Fawdon, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, had popped out to buy dinner when he received a call from emergency services saying his flat had caught fire.

Marlon was recovered from the blaze, and firefighters even created a makeshift miniature plastic mask in a bid to save him, but he passed away and was buried in the garden later that day.

Marlon Dingle the Congo Grey parrot died after a fire at the Newcastle home of its owner Steven Patterson, 44. The pet is seen in a tea towel after the blaze

Mr Patterson claims the fire was caused by this Hotpoint tumble dryer, a suggestion Whirlpool denies

Whirlpool - which owns Hotpoint - deny the fire was caused by the product - which wasn't subject to the mass recall of tumble dryers in February 2016.

The manufacturer pulled 519,000 Hotpoint and Indesit washing machines from shelves on Tuesday over fears they could overheat and catch fire

Last month an investigation ruled Mr Patterson would not be entitled for compensation as the tumble dryer was not 'installed according to the manufacturer's instructions'.

Now a year after the blaze, the devastated animal lover says he is still without answers as to how the fire started and has vowed to avenge Marlon's death to prevent him from dying in vain.

Mr Patterson said: 'My parrot Marlon Dingle is dead and they don't care one bit.

'We've lost a member of a family. He was the baby of the family. He and my daughter grew up together.

'He used to mimic my daughter and mam, we've got so many happy memories involving him.'

Mr Patterson said he rescued Marlon from someone's garden shed about ten years ago, paying the man £900 so he could 'give him a good home'.

'It took him a year to come out of his cage. But when we grew that bond it was unbreakable.

'I can't believe he's gone and there's not an ounce of sympathy.'

Mr Patterson, pictured with his partner Karen, said: 'My parrot Marlon Dingle is dead and they don't care one bit'

Mr Patterson bought the tumble dryer in September 2016 which he went to use weekly, and claims to have emptied out the filter after each use.

But two years later when he had popped out to buy dinner when he received a call saying his kitchen was on fire.

Mr Patterson said: 'My instinct was to rush over his cage and take him out of the house.

'He'd always used to squawk and be loud but this wasn't squawking this was squealing.

'He was choking so bad. The fire fighters made a make-shift plastic mask for him. He was just so terrified and covered in soot.

'It was just terrible to watch. I managed to grab a tea towel to wrap him up in but within ten minutes he died in my arms.'

The devastated animal lover says he took a photo to show people what had happened.

Marlon (seen in his cage after the fire) was recovered from the blaze, and firefighters even created a makeshift miniature plastic mask in a bid to save him, but he passed away and was buried in the garden later that day

He said: 'I know I sound daft. I'm covered in tattoos and I'm getting all poncy over a bird but he was my little bird.

'He used to rest up on my shoulder and we'd watch TV together. Everyone in the area knew him. It was like having a dog but he could speak.

'He may not have understood what I said but he was part of the family.'

Last month the insurance company ruled they 'cannot say with any certainty that the appliance was installed according to the manufacturer's instructions'.

Mr Patterson said: 'They've been doing that forensic report for a year and for them to turn round and say it wasn't installed properly is a joke.

'It's like getting someone in to install your kettle or a microwave. Are you telling me these need to be installed by a Whirlpool engineer too?

'I've lost something irreplaceable and would hate to see someone go through the same.'

A spokesman for Whirlpool Corporation said: 'An independent investigation into this incident has concluded that the tumble dryer was not the cause of the fire.'

Last month the insurance company ruled they 'cannot say with any certainty that the appliance was installed according to the manufacturer's instructions'. Pictured is Mr Patterson's devastated kitchen