She is the toast of tinseltown, creator of hit show Fleabag and three-time Emmy winner.

And Phoebe Waller-Bridge was every inch the Hollywood siren as she led the famous faces descending on the Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker London premiere afterparty on Wednesday.

The actress, 34, channelled her inner Jedi in a sparkling silver jumpsuit complete with chunky black panels in the style of the robes worn by Jedi Knights.

Jedi Knights! Phoebe Waller-Bridge was every inch the Hollywood siren as she led the famous faces descending on the Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker London premiere afterparty on Wednesday

The gorgeous garment, which featured metallic silver and black sequins and capped sleeves, boasted a plunging neckline which teased a glimpse of her decolletage.

Cinching in at her trim waist, the garment flowed into elegant flared trousers, with the star boosting her height with black stilettos.

Her brunette locks were styled in soft waves, parted on the side while smoky shadow and a bold red lip accentuated her pretty features.

Phoebe is no stranger to a galaxy far, far, away as she appeared as droid L3-37 in 2018 prequel, Solo: A Star Wars Story.

Wow: The actress, 34, channelled her inner Jedi in a sparkling silver jumpsuit complete with chunky black panels in the style of the robes worn by Jedi Knights

Feel the Force: Her brunette locks were styled in soft waves, parted on the side while smoky shadow and a bold red lip accentuated her pretty features

The Rise Of Skywalker is the last film in the nine-episode run of movies that first began in 1977 with Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope.

The film hopes to tie together the numerous loose ends that have been left unanswered, from the originals to Rian Johnson's The Last Jedi.

While the plot has to mostly be kept under wraps, it can be said that the film sees Emperor Palpatine return, with Rey (Daisy Ridley) and The Resistance trying to find him, while Supreme Leader Kylo Ren (Adam Driver) is also on the trail.

Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker is set to be released on December 19 in the U.K. and December 20 in the U.S.

Yay: Keri Russell, who plays Zorri Bliss - a masked rogue, teased her cleavage as she arrived

Doting: She was escorted into the after party by her partner Matthew Rhys

The movie left critics divided on Wednesday, as they simultaneously described it as a 'fitting conclusion' and being 'somewhat soulless'.

Empire's Helen O'Hara gave the film three stars, and claimed: 'For all the visual panache, pleasing cameos and interesting newcomers here, for all that Ridley and Driver pour into their stand-offs, the Emperor's presence shows a disturbing lack of faith at the heart of The Rise Of Skywalker.

'The fan backlash last time has been taken on-board too well; the storytelling here sputters whenever it approaches any similar chance to turn away from narrative convention and do something truly unexpected.

'You wish that this galaxy didn't feel so small and scared of stepping away from George Lucas' shadow.'

Dapper: Andy Serkis - who plays Supreme Leader Snoke- looked sharp in a navy suit

Icon: Warwick Davis donned a suave navy suit and glittering tie as he attended the soiree

Glamour: Kelly Marie Tran, who plays mechanic Rose Trisco, had some assistance with her train as she walked in

Hunk: Oscar Isaac, who plays Poe Dameron, wowed in a chestnut suit and olive shirt

While Vanity Fair's Richard Lawson called it a 'turgid rush toward a conclusion I don’t think anyone wanted', as he added: 'I found it hard to care much either way about Rise Of Skywalker, neither betrayed nor sated.

'The movie is too determinedly on its sweaty course, heedless of actual audience interest in its tunnel-visioned quest to be broadly loved or, at least, Internet approved-of.'

He went on to say: 'There’s a passion lacking in the movie’s big scenes (and, really, in the little ones too), as if Abrams was woken up in the middle of the night and told to rush down to the studio to put out a fire started by some intern named Rian.'

Chewbacca: Joonas Suotamo attended the after-party with his gorgeous pregnant wife Milla

Showtime: Lando Calrissian actor Billy Dee Williams looked dapper as he arrived

Glow: Linzi Stoppard looked sensational in a shimmering gold dress as she walked along

Delight: The film's producer Kathleen Kennedy looked delighted as she celebrated the new film

Leading lights: Daisy Ridley and John Boyefa (centre) led the cast as they posed up at the premiere

The Wrap's Alonso Duradle called the film 'soulless' as he wrote: 'Rest assured that there’s nothing in this final Star Wars that would prompt the eye-rolls or the snickers of Episodes I-III; Abrams is too savvy a studio player for those kinds of shenanigans.

'But his slick delivery of a sterling, shiny example of what Martin Scorsese would call “not cinema” feels momentarily satisfying but ultimately unfulfilling.

'It’s a somewhat soulless delivery system of catharsis, but Disney and Abrams are banking on the delivery itself to be enough.'

Disagreeing with that sentiment, Digital Spy's Ian Sandwell wrote that the film 'is a lot of movie and is far from flawless, but overall, it's an emotional, thrilling and satisfying end to the Skywalker Saga, with plenty of surprises up its sleeve.'

Mixed reviews: Star Wars: The Rise Of Skywalker DIVIDED critics on Wednesday as some blasted it for being 'soulless' while others praised it as an 'thrilling and satisfying end'