Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez hit out at Democrat presidential hopeful Tulsi Gabbard after she became the only member of her party not to take a stance on impeaching Donald Trump.

The House voted largely along party lines to impeach President Trump on two counts Wednesday evening - one of abuse of power, and another of obstruction.

Two Democrats crossed party lines to vote against abuse of power, and were joined by a third on the obstruction count, but Gabbard was the only one to vote 'present' on both - refusing to opt either for or against.

'Today was very consequential, and to not take a stand one way or another, on a day of such great consequence to this country, I think is quite difficult,' AOC said.

'We are sent here to lead.'

Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez criticized Tulsi Gabbard for refusing to take sides on Wednesday's impeachment vote, saying: 'We are sent here to lead'

Gabbard, who is running for the Democratic presidential nomination, voted 'present' in both ballots - refusing to come down either for or against

Gabbard, of Hawaii, did not speak on the floor while leaders of both parties doled out slots in 30-second and one-minute increments.

During the second vote she was seen standing against the back wall of the chamber on the side where Republicans sit.

'After doing my due diligence in reviewing the 658-page impeachment report, I came to the conclusion that I could not in good conscience vote either yes or no,' she said.

'I am standing in the center and have decided to vote Present. I could not in good conscience vote against impeachment because I believe President Trump is guilty of wrongdoing.'

But she said a president must not be removed through a 'partisan process' that is 'fueled by tribal animosities.'

Her statement tried to position Gabbard as a sensible centrist, compared to her fellow Democrats who are using 'extreme' rhetoric and delusional Trump supporters who claimed his conduct was 'perfect.'

'On the one side — The president's defenders insist that he has done nothing wrong. They agree with the absurd proclamation that his conduct was "perfect." They have abdicated their responsibility to exercise legitimate oversight, and instead blindly do the bidding of their party's leader,' she said.

Gabbard said she could not vote against impeachment because she believes Trump is guilty of crimes, but refused to participate in such a partisan process

Gabbard was the only lawmaker to vote 'present' on the abuse of power and obstruction of Congress articles of impeachment

'On the other side — The president's opponents insist that if we do not impeach, our country will collapse into dictatorship. All but explicitly, they accuse him of treason. Such extreme rhetoric was never conducive to an impartial fact-finding process,' she continued.

Two of her Democratic colleagues, Collin Peterson of Minnesota and Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey, voted 'no' on impeachment. Both represent districts where Trump outperformed Hillary Clinton.

Her defiant vote came after Gabbard threw a wrench into the vote with her call to censure, rather than impeach, Trump.

A censure vote, if allowed on the House floor, might have allowed Democrats who are still on the fence with an alternative that stopped short of impeachment.

First lady Melania Trump arrives to stand for photos with President Donald Trump and Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales at the White House, Tuesday, Dec. 17, 2019, in Washington. Trump blasted the impeachment effort in an indignant letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi

Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD) and Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA) testify during a House Rules Committee hearing on the impeachment against President Donald Trump, on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., December 17, 2019

Democratic lawmakers also pushed censure as an alternative during the Bill Clinton impeachment, but it never prevailed, and didn't get sufficient votes to clear the Senate.

ABC News reported Gabbard's push Tuesday. Gabbard is seeking the Democratic presidential nomination, but did not qualify for Wednesday's debate in Los Angeles, having failed to meet a polling threshold.

'I'm taking this time for myself to be able to review everything that's happened all the information that's been put forward,' she said at Furman University in South Carolina Monday, as she remained 'undecided' on impeachment vote lists.

'And just all the factors that go into really trying to figure out what what is the best action to take for our country. And for democracy. It's not a simple or easy decision to make,' she said.

Gabbard angered some Democrats when she clashed with Hillary Clinton this year, and she has been popular in unscientific online polls after debates.