Sir Keir Starmer

Sir Keir Starmer was raised by socialist parents who named him after Keir Hardie, the Labour leader's founder and a colossus of the socialist movement.

In Who's Who he refers to his parents Rodney and Josephine Starmer as 'Rod and Jo'.

The shadow Brexit secretary was an out-and-out Remainer who frequently clashed with Corbyn's inner circle over his overt support for a second referendum.

The 57-year-old lawyer, a former director of public prosecutions, was kept largely out of sight during the election campaign as the party tried, unsuccessfully, to hold on to Leave seats in the north.

Distrusted by hard left fans of Mr Corbyn, the Holborn and St Pancras MP set out his stall to be a unity candidate, attacking 'factionalism' and saying the party needed to include both Momentum and fans of Tony Blair.

And he dangled a carrot in front of Corbynites, saying he did not want the party to move too far rightwards.

He said he did not want a return to the era of Tony Blair, telling the BBC this morning: 'I don't need someone else's name tattooed on my head to make decisions.'

But he might face difficulty if he is seen as not left wing enough, or if the party feels it needs a northern voice to win back seats.

Emily Thornberry

Emily Thornberry has been dogged by claims of snobbery towards working-class voters for years.

The shadow foreign secretary, whose Islington seat neighbours that of Jeremy Corbyn, was forced to resign from Ed Miliband's front bench in 2014 after tweeting an apparently mocking image of a house in Rochester with a white van and England flags outside.

Labour came third in the by-election in the constituency, which was won by Ukip.

This week she was embroiled in a furious row with ex-minister Caroline Flint, who lost her Don Vallley seat to the Tories.

Ms Flint claimed Mrs Thornberry told a northern MP privately that Brexit voters were 'stupid'.

Mrs Thornberry has angrily denied the allegation and threatened to sue Ms Flint.

A lively performer in Parliament, she has admirers among Labour's clutch of metropolitan MPs.

Ms Thornberry's London seat and vocal pro-Remain position could tell against her - although the membership is generally pro-EU.

Rebecca Long-Bailey

The shadow business secretary is seen as the 'continuity' candidate, having been closely involved in Labour's lurch to the Left.

Frequently deployed on media, the 40-year-old's career has been pushed by shadow chancellor John McDonnell, who has long tipped her as a future leader.

She is expected to portray herself as the torchbearer for Jeremy Corbyn's legacy, and will be boosted if the pact with close friend Angela Rayner - potentially a rival - is confirmed.

Given Labour's dire need to reconnect with its traditional heartlands, her northern constituency and accent will also be selling points.

Lisa Nandy

The Wigan MP washed her hands of the Corbyn project some time ago - which could be a boon given its humiliating failure in the election.

But the 40-year-old has maintained a high media profile, and has strong left-wing credentials away without being marked on the extreme.

While the leadership desperately tried to stay neutral, she pushed hard for Labour to adopt a more Leave policy and accept the verdict of the referendum.

Ms Nandy was involved in unsuccessful talks to support Theresa May's deal, but has indicated she would not support Boris Johnson's harder Brexit.

However, some MPs complain that she is 'lightweight' and failed to make good on her rhetoric about allowing Brexit to happen.

Jess Phillips

The Birmingham Yeardley MP is a confident performer in the media and the House of Commons chamber.

Her straight-talking, no-nonsense manner and Brummie accent have won her many fans and she was one of the first names mentioned as a contender after Mr Corbyn announced he would step down.

But the 38-year-old's willingness to criticise the leader has won her few friends among Corbynistas, with a groundswell of opposition to her taking over.

She has been the target of high levels of online abuse from people across the political spectrum, including death threats.

She also has no experience of the party's front bench, something that could either count against her or for her, depending on the views of the members.

In March she said she would 'be a good prime minister'. At a time when several moderate MPs had quit Labour she added: 'I feel like I can't leave the Labour Party without rolling the dice one more time. I owe it that. But it doesn't own me. It's nothing more than a logo if it doesn't stand for something that I actually care about – it's just a f***ing rose'.

Yvette Cooper

A Cabinet minister under Gordon Brown, Ms Cooper is very much a survivor of the government years of Labour.

That is her Achilles heel in a party led by people who would rather forget it was ever in power under Blair and Brown.

Since being a minister, Ms Cooper has reinvented herself as the chairwoman of the Home Affairs Committee, presiding over some forensic questioning of ministers over issues including the Windrush scandal.

Ms Cooper, who is married to former minister Ed Balls, told the BBC's Today programme this morning she would decide over the Christmas break whether to run for the leadership.

'I think we clearly do have to change because it hasn't worked,' she said.

Ms Cooper said she would probably take a different view from Tony Blair - who used a speech today to urge against a 'whitewash' of the party's worst general election result since 1935 - and also a different view to the recent approach of the party.

Clive Lewis

The Norwich South MP, 48, has managed to ingratiate himself into the Corbyn machine despite a major falling out over Brexit.

In 2017 he quit as shadow business minister after he rebelled against Mr Corbyn to oppose triggering Brexit negotiations.

But he returned the following year to join shadow chancellor John McDonnell's economic team.

A sexism scandal from 2017 could be a major hindrance in a ladership race likely to feature several female candidates. He was forced to apologise 'unreservedly' for telling an activist to 'get on your knees b****' at an event during Labour conference.

Footage of a Momentum event in Brighton showed Mr Lewis making the remark to a man on stage as the audience laughed.

The then backbencher admitted his language had been 'offensive and unacceptable' after facing a wave of condemnation from colleagues.

Angela Rayner

Ms Rayner has been MP for Ashton-under-Lyne since 2015, has drawn heavily on her time as a one-time struggling teenage mother - and proudly welcomed her own granddaughter at the age of just 37 with a tweet jokingly referring to herself as 'Grangela'.

The married mother-of-three was just 16 when she had her first son, Ryan, and has told how becoming pregnant so young 'saved' her.

Her teenage relationship with Ryan's father ended quickly and she has since married Unison official Mark Rayner.

She has been shadow education secretary since 2016 and quietly built up a fan base within the party.

While she has apparently made a pact to run as Ms Long-Bailey's deputy she could still decide to have a punt at the top job itself.

But it would mean battling her London flatmate, which could make for difficult nights in.

David Lammy

The outspoken Tottenham MP would become the first black leader of a major UK political party if he won. But he is very much an outside bet.

Despite nominating Jeremy Corbyn for the leader's ballot in 2015 he is very much a hardcore Remainer and last night attacked the 'faith-based cult' that has strung up at the head of the party.

He is also outspoken on race politics. In April he likened members of the Brexiteer European Research Group (ERG) of Conservative MPs to the Nazis and 'white supremacists'

He also had a war of words with presenter Stacey Dooley over a Comic Relief trip to Africa, accusing her of using Instagram to make herself look like a 'heroine' trying to save 'victim' black children in Uganda.

Last year he led criticisms of the Government for threatening to deport migrants who have spent nearly their entire lives in the UK.

But the London-born politician then received an abusive letter branding him 'vile' and telling him to 'go back to the country of your forbears'.