In a sign of easing global trade tensions, China will lower import tariffs on over 850 products from January 1, including frozen pork and frozen avocado, the finance ministry in Beijing said.

It will also further lower import tariffs on some information technology products from July 1 next year, said the ministry, in a statement on its website.

The spread of African swine fever in China, the world's top pork consumer, has redrawn global food supply chains as the country has had to rely more on imported pork and less on domestic production.

Millions of pigs have died from or been culled to control ASF in China and other Asian countries, such as Vietnam.

Chinese President Xi Jinping is seen above speaking at an anniversary event marking 20 years since the Portuguese colony of Macau was handed over to Beijing. His government on Monday announced it would lower tariffs on 850 imported products

China's finance ministry also said it would reduce levies on non-frozen orange juice, new asthma and diabetes drugs, key components and machines for manufacturing integrated circuits, and some logs and paper products, according to Bloomberg News.

According to a statement released by the Chinese treasury, goods imported from New Zealand, Peru, Costa Rica, Switzerland, Iceland, Singapore, Australia, South Korea, Georgia, Chile and Pakistan will enjoy even lower levies under re-negotiated free trade agreements.

Meanwhile, there were encouraging signs this holiday season that the trade tensions between the world's two largest economies were easing.

Oil prices were mostly steady on Monday after three weeks of gains amid optimism the United States and China were close to signing a trade deal to end a tariff war, with President Donald Trump saying an agreement would be signed 'very shortly.'

Brent crude was down 4 cents at $66.10 a barrel. West Texas Intermediate was also down 4 cents at $60.40 a barrel.

A so-called phase one deal was announced earlier in December as part of a bid to end the months-long tit-for-tat trade war between the world's two largest economies, which has sent shockwaves through markets and roiled global growth.

The United States is to agree to reduce some tariffs in return for a big increase in purchases by Chinese importers of American farm products, according to the deal that is due to be signed in January.

President Trump on Saturday said that the United States and China are likely to sign a new trade agreement 'very shortly'

'We just achieved a breakthrough on the trade deal and we will be signing it very shortly,' Trump said at a Turning Point USA event in Florida on Saturday.

The easing of tensions has improved business confidence and boosted the outlook for economic growth and energy demand.

'Oil prices will continue to benefit from the positive developments in the U.S.-China trade,' said Stephen Innes, chief Asia market strategist at AxiTrader.

'With a more constructive global macro outlook than at any time in the last year, oil is well-supported by both fundamental factors and sentiment now,' he said.

US drillers may be anticipating higher prices as well and last week increased the number of their oil rigs by the most in a week since February 2018.

Drillers added 18 oil rigs in the week to December 20, bringing the total to 685, the most since November, Baker Hughes, an energy services company, said in its weekly report.

US economic growth nudged up in the third quarter, latest data shows, and the economy appears to have maintained the moderate pace of expansion as the year ended, supported by a strong labor market.