She's enjoying a fun-filled trip to Dubai, getting some winter sun before Christmas.

And Michelle Keegan shared an envy-inducing snapshot from her break on Wednesday, posing in a bright yellow minidress in the Marina as she enjoyed a night on the town.

The 32-year-old star looked amazing as ever, rocking a bow embellished neon frock teamed with white leather ankle boots.

'Bright lights, big city': Michelle Keegan posed in a bright yellow minidress in Dubai Marina as she enjoyed a night on the town on Wednesday

She wore her brunette curls in a high ponytail and added some extra bling thanks to delicate gold jewellery.

Michelle captioned the eye-catching image: 'Bright lights, big city'.

Earlier this week, the Our Girl star also shared a snap of herself with a pal as they prepared for another evening out.

The former Coronation Street favourite is travelling without her husband Mark Wright, who is being kept busy with his ballroom dancing training.

Double trouble: Earlier this week, the Our Girl star also shared a snap of herself with a pal as they prepared for another evening out

Mark has stayed in the UK to prepare for the Strictly Come Dancing festive special, which will air on Christmas Day.

'My mum and my sister [will be there],' he said, explaining that actress wife will be sitting this one out.

'My wife is working so wont be able to be there. My family were there all the time the first time around.'

Mark will be dancing with Janette Manrara, but admits he's a little rusty, having appeared on the show five years ago.

Going solo: The former Coronation Street favourite is travelling without her husband Mark Wright, who is being kept busy with his ballroom dancing training (pictured together in March)

'I’m a bit older and the joints have stiffened up. I won’t be horrendous but I’m never going to be that good as I’m not the best dancer as it is.

'It’s always nerve-wracking stepping out on to that dancefloor so I’m just nervous in general.

'I’m nervous I’ll make myself look silly or that I’m not going to dance well, but I’ve got the salsa so you’ve got to have a bit of rhythm for that.'

He added: 'To have Janette is unbelievable. I remember when it first started Janette was so kind to all the celebs on the first day, and she was dancing with Jake Wood that year.

'If I hadn’t have had Karen [Clifton] that’s who I’d want so now I’ve got the other one I want.'