Labour leadership hopeful Emily Thornberry highlighted her difficult upbringing today as she sought to dismiss suggestions she is too posh to lead the left-wing party.

The shadow foreign secretary, a trained barrister, discussed being raised by a single mother as she sought to woo party members to back her tilt at the top job.

The 59-year-old politician is the daughter of teacher Sallie Thornberry and international lawyer the late Cedric Thornberry, who went on to become Assistant-Secretary-General of the United Nations.

But after her parents divorced when she was seven, Thornberry insists her family's finances took a dramatic turn for the worse.

Asked how her background would go down with the electorate, Ms Thornberry told the BBC's Today programme: 'I am southern, I'm not going to pretend I'm not. But the point is you've got to come from somewhere.'

She added: 'What you need to do is to be able to be empathetic and listen to the public throughout the country, and, as for this kind of class issue, people who know me know that I come from a council estate.

'People who know me know that I was brought up by a single parent on benefits.'

Ms Thornberry has previously spoken about her troubled childhood. It included a revelation in 2017 that her family had the pet cat put down because they could not afford to feed it.

It came after shadow Brexit secretary Sir Keir Starmer, who seems certain to also try to become party leader, also highlighted his humble upbringing. He also worked as a barrister and owns homes worth more than £2 million.

They are both trying to see off leadership bids from Corbynista candidates including Rebecca Long Bailey, the shadow business secretary and have faced criticism of being from southern seats when the party did badly in the North.

Emily Thornberry (pictured on BBC Breakfast today) discussed being raised by a single mother as she sought to woo party members to back her tilt at the top job

It came after shadow Brexit secretary Sir Keir Starmer, who seems certain to also try to become party leader, also highlighted his humble upbringing

EMILY THORNBERRY: WE WERE SO POOR WE PUT THE CAT DOWN Emily Thornberry has been dogged by claims of snobbery towards working-class voters for years. The 59-year-old politician is the daughter of teacher Sallie Thornberry and international lawyer Cedric Thornberry, who went to become Assistant-Secretary-General of the United Nations. But in an interview with the Mirror in 2017, she detailed her tough upbringing. She said: 'I don't know if this is a false memory, but I have a memory of bailiffs coming. And it was the 1960s so they were wearing bowler hats,' according to The Mirror. She added: 'The cats had to be put down. I suppose my mum just couldn't cope with three kids, no money, going into council housing... and cats.' Speaking about her prominent father, who also served as a consultant to NATO, she said: 'He was very successful, sort of an international guy. He was a great man, but a terrible father.' Thornberry, now married to Oxbridge educated lawyer Sir Christopher Nugee, was raised in a modest home in Kent and attended a secondary-modern school after failing her 11-plus. Despite early academic setbacks, she made it to Canterbury University and was called to the Bar in 1983. After standing for Labour in Tory Canterbury in the 2001 general election, Miss Thornberry won the nomination to succeed Chris Smith in Islington South & Finsbury. In her maiden speech in parliament, she said: 'My mum struggled for years to bring up me and my brothers on benefits. 'I wear the chips that I have on my shoulder with pride.' She added: 'You can take the girl out of the estate, but you can't take the estate out of the girl.' The shadow foreign secretary, whose Islington seat neighbours that of Jeremy Corbyn, was forced to resign from Ed Miliband's front bench in 2014 after tweeting an apparently mocking image of a house in Rochester with a white van and England flags outside. Labour came third in the by-election in the constituency, which was won by Ukip. This week she was embroiled in a furious row with ex-minister Caroline Flint, who lost her Don Vallley seat to the Tories. Ms Flint claimed Mrs Thornberry told a northern MP privately that Brexit voters were 'stupid'. Mrs Thornberry has angrily denied the allegation and threatened to sue Ms Flint.

She became the first contender formally to declare yesterday, penning an article for the Guardian in which she desperately dismissed the idea her arch-Remainer status would be a barrier to resurrecting Labour after its rout in working-class Leave heartlands.

But she is already embroiled in damaging spat with ex-Labour MP Caroline Flint, who has accused her of branding Brexit voters 'stupid'.

In 2014 Mrs Thornberry triggered a 'snobbery' row by tweeting an apparently mocking picture of a white van and England flag outside a house in Rochester.

Oxford-educated lawyer Sir Keir revealed he is 'seriously considering' entering the leadership race that will take place in the New Near.

Asked whether a knighted lawyer can reach out to working class voters the party lost to the Tories in last week;s election, he told BBC Radio 4's Today yesterday: 'As for the sort of middle-class thrust, as you know, my dad worked in a factory, he was a toolmaker, and my mum was a nurse, and she contracted a very rare disease early in her life that meant she was constantly in need of NHS care.

'So, actually, my background isn't what people think it is.

'I know what it's like. I actually never had been in any workplace other than a factory until I left home for university. I'd never been in an office.

'So the idea that somehow I personally don't know what it's like for people across the country in all sorts of different circumstances is just not borne out.'

Ms Thornberry tried to distance herself from Jeremy Corbyn today by insisting his hard-Left aides Seumas Milne and Karie Murphy should join him in paying the price for the election disaster.

The shadow foreign secretary said she was 'calling out' the advisers as she ramped up her bid to take over as leader.

In a round of interviews, she said it was not acceptable that junior party staff were facing redundancy when those who 'made the very decisions about the general election don't seem to be under threat'.

Mrs Thornberry also repeated her claim that she had urged Mr Corbyn to block Boris Johnson from holding the election - which saw the Tories secure an 80-strong majority as Labour collapsed to its worst performance since 1935.

But shadow chancellor John McDonnell shot back that it had been 'impossible' to avoid going to the polls because the Lib Dems and SNP were in favour.

The spat came as the Labour leadership battle heats up, with a bewildering array of candidates considering a tilt.

Shadow Brexit secretary Sir Keir Starmer effectively launched his bid yesterday, denying that he was too middle-class to head the party.

Rebecca Long-Bailey is considered the 'continuity' candidate on the Left, while Wigan MP Lisa Nandy and shadow minister Clive Lewis are also mulling joining the fray.

Mr Thornberry is the daughter of teacher Sallie Thornberry and international lawyer Cedric Thornberry (pictured), who went to become Assistant-Secretary-General of the United Nations

Responding to Labour workers being warned they faced losing their jobs while staff close to leader Mr Corbyn will stay in place, Mrs Thornberry called for a different approach.

Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, she insisted she was 'not naming anyone' - while leaving no doubt about who she meant.

'People know who it is that I'm talking about. But the truth is now we're in a position where there is talk of redundancies amongst more junior staff... that it may be necessary for them to be made redundant.

'And yet those that made the very decisions about the general election don't seem to be under threat.'

Mrs Thornberry, an outspoken Remainer, said it was 'well known that there were arguments in the leadership about what the best way to go forward was on Brexit'.

'My view was that we were only three votes off getting a second referendum attached to Boris Johnson's deal, and it was my belief that we should not allow there to be a general election which would effectively be a referendum, and that we had to do everything that we could to stop that.

'I argued that at every opportunity that I had, including in shadow cabinet, and obviously I wrote to Jeremy, and I spoke to his advisers.

'I think that it's important to make that clear, not least because we're making a decision about which new leader we should have.

'It's important that people understand about the fact that I can make political decisions and that I am strategic, and in the end that's going to be a very important part of the leadership.'

Asked on ITV's Peston last night if she was surprised that people like Mr Corbyn's strategy director, Mr Milne, were still in place, Ms Thornberry said: 'I think it is really sad to see the way in which the staff at the head office and in the leader's office are being told that many of them may be being made redundant, but as far as I understand it, the senior people within those teams are not under such a threat.

'It does seem to me that if decisions have been made, wrongly, it should be those people who pay the price and not those who were working night and day in junior positions.'

A Labour spokesman said: 'We don't comment on staffing matters.'

Responding to Mrs Thornberry's claims that she argued against supporting the election, Mr McDonnell said many others had wanted delay.

He Tweeted: 'For historical accuracy, many of us wanted to delay election until after the Brexit legislation had been won or lost.

'This would have meant in the New Year but was impossible once SNP & Lib Dems decided to vote for one & gave Johnson the votes he needed.'

Meanwhile, Ms Nandy insisted she was 'seriously thinking' of running to be Labour leader.

She told the Daily Mirror that Labour is facing its 'last chance to save the party'.