Ryan Reynolds appeared as a guest on the Tonight Show With Jimmy Fallon last week, and while he was there he shot a mock commercial for an imaginary product called the 'Get the F**k Out Of My House' candle.

The Deadpool actor appeared in a sketch for the show that was set in his hypothetical home as he hosts a Christmas party with a few guests, once of them including Jimmy Fallon.

Reynolds, 43, plays a character that's faced with a common problem for entertainers around the holidays - guests that overstay their welcome.

On-screen: Ryan Reynolds appeared as a guest on the Tonight Show With Jimmy Fallon last week, and while he was there he shot a mock commercial for an imaginary product called the 'Get the F**k Out Of My House' candle

Fallon plays one of the guests and continues to chat away alongside the others even as Reynolds resorts to multiple stunts to coerce them to leave including loud yawns and simply standing up to say: 'Well, I guess I should be going since it's so late.'

After he stands up, he says hilariously: 'Wait, I live here!'

Enter Yankee Candle's latest fragrance release, the 'Get The F**k Out of My House' candle, which the commercial introduces to audience applause and laughter.

LOL: The Deadpool actor appeared in a sketch for the show that was set in his hypothetical home as he hosts a Christmas party with a few guests, once of them including Jimmy Fallon

Funny: As soon as Reynolds lights the 'Get The F**k out of My House' candle, his guests come up with excuses to get up and leave

Gross: 'Oh my God, what's that smell? It smells like hot garbage - like someone's microwaving hot garbage,' Fallon says, nearly retching

'Simply light the candle and within minutes, unwanted guests will be a thing of the past,' the voice-over says.

As soon as Reynolds lights the 'Get The F**k out of My House' candle, his guests come up with excuses to get up and leave.

'Oh my God, what's that smell? It smells like hot garbage - like someone's microwaving hot garbage,' Fallon says, nearly retching.

Another guest cuts and runs with the zinger: 'I just remembered I have a thing. It's my dog's ballet recital.'

'I'm just gonna go run to the hospital,' Fallon jokes.

Reynolds has been wed to Blake Lively since 2012.