Teresa Giudice decided not to tell her youngest child Audriana about her father's latest immigration appeal failing on Wednesday's episode of RHONJ.

Joe Giudice, 47, had never obtained American citizenship, and was being detained in an immigration facility for months after serving time for fraud, awaiting word as to whether he'd be allowed to stay in the United States.

At first, Teresa, 47, only told her daughters Gia, 18, and Gabriella, 14, about the appeal, but soon Milania, 13, found out, though she kept Audriana, nine, in the dark.

Easter meal: Teresa Giudice decided not to tell her youngest daughter Audriana about her father's deportation appeal being denied on Wednesday's episode of RHONJ

'There's no reason to upset her until I have a final answer,' Teresa pointed out.

It was almost Easter, and Teresa strove to keep things normal for her kids, stuffing Easter baskets for them to enjoy.

Gia said her dad had called her five times the day before, and was struggling to deal with his hopes constantly being crushed.

When Teresa's brother Joe Gorga, 40, showed up, Teresa revealed that her husband Joe had blamed her for his not becoming an American citizen, suggesting she should have set it up.

Youngest daughter: Audriana, nine, asked her Teresa if her father was going to be deported

'He's just speaking out of his a**, mom,' Gia said. 'He's going crazy.'

Gorga pointed out that his brother-in-law was 'deteriorating,' and urged Gia, who'd pressured Joe to keep fighting, to tell him it was okay to stop.

'I don't want to be selfish, but I don't know if I'm ready to let him go,' Gia relayed, crying.

Tough conversation: Teresa looked on as her brother Joe talked to her oldest daughter Gia, 18, about her father's legal proceedings

Losing battle: Joe pointed out that his brother-in-law was 'deteriorating,' and urged Gia, who'd pressured Joe to keep fighting, to tell him it was okay to stop

Tears flowing: Gia cried as her uncle was candid about her family's situation

On Easter, Teresa said a prayer, invoking the memory of her mother as she asked for strength.

Her father, Giacinto Gorga, cried as she mentioned her mom, and Milania comforted him.

They all worried that Giacinto wasn't feeling well, as he'd been in the hospital often.

Lost love: Teresa said a prayer at their Easter meal invoking the memory of her mother as she asked for strength and her father, Giacinto Gorga, cried as she mentioned his late wife Antonia

Joe called them from ICE detention, and joked around as though everything were normal.

Gorga took the phone and said: 'Listen, I f***ing love you, bro, and I miss you. That's why I don't like to talk to you bro, because you really break my f***ing heart.'

'You gotta stay strong,' he said, as Joe tried not to cry, and his daughters started crying, too.

Group call: Joe Giudice called his family on Easter while he was in an immigration detention facility

'Bro, I'm doing everything I could, man,' Joe insisted during his limited phone call. 'Enough is enough of this s***.'

'It'll be over soon,' Milania noted. 'Next Easter, we'll be together.'

'Wherever it's gonna be, it doesn't make a difference,' Joe emphasized.

Family love: Joe Gorga took the phone and said: 'Listen, I f***ing love you, bro, and I miss you. That's why I don't like to talk to you bro, because you really break my f***ing heart'

'Anywhere is better than there,' Teresa pointed out, as Audriana sobbed.

The girl wondered if she would get to see her father before he was deported.

Teresa said she didn't think so, as she felt an ICE facility would be too traumatic for her.

Too traumatic: Teresa talked to her husband and later said she felt Audriana was too young to visit him at the ICE facility and it would be traumatic for her

'Mom, is daddy getting deported?' Audriana asked imploringly. 'Will you tell me?'

Giacinto was suddenly looking worse for wear, affected by the family's stress.

'I feel like sometimes, why do we have to keep going through all this?' Teresa wondered. 'It's like, enough's enough.'

Good question: In a confessional, Teresa admitted, 'I feel like sometimes, why do we have to keep going through all this?'

The episode also showed Jackie Goldschneider, 43, revealing that she once suffered from an eating disorder that nearly killed her.

But her father, in a misguided attempt to help her, said it was 'almost worth it.'

'Are you insane?' Jackie, 43, replied. 'Don't even say that. You don't know what I went through. I almost died. I didn't eat anything for 20 years.'

Family visit: Jackie Goldschneider, 43, while visiting her father revealed that she once suffered from an eating disorder that nearly killed her

Her dad denied that it had been serious, and Jackie acknowledged: 'For my dad, you get too fat, you go on a diet. And that's it.'

'Listen, you're wrong,' she told him. 'It's not worth it to have an eating disorder. I don't want you to even put that out in the universe.'

Jackie and her eight-year-old twins, Alexis and Hudson had been visiting their 'Poppy,' in Manalapan, New Jersey, when he made the startling statement.

Called out: The reality star visited her father 'Poppy' with her eight-year-old twins, Alexis and Hudson in Manalapan, New Jersey

The father and daughter had an unusual relationship, as he used to take her to casinos when she was a teen.

'I started sneaking into casinos with fake ID when I was 15 years old,' Jackie recalled. 'It was like, ''Daddy's going to take me to the dice table now.'' Like, nothing came before that.'

His wife, to whom he was still married, hadn't lived with him in 19 years, and he had become something of a hoarder during that time.

Gambling teen: Jackie revealed that she and her father had an unusual relationship, as he used to take her to casinos when she was a teen

Jackie often cleaned out expired food from his refrigerator, and she dutifully trudged downstairs when he said he wanted to show her a video.

She and the kids watched footage of her preparing for junior prom, weighing over 200 lbs.

'Who's that big girl?' her dad asked.

Prom video: She and the kids watched footage of her preparing for junior prom, weighing over 200 lbs

'Oh my god,' she told her kids. 'Can you believe that's mommy?'

'You're pretty,' Alexis observed.

Jackie said she spent a lot of time alone as a child, as her parents were often gone, her sister uninterested in her company, and her brother, who was learning-disabled, usually at school.

Video session: Poppy wanted to show Jackie and her kids the video of her weighing more than 200 lbs

'Food was very comforting,' she noted. 'By the time I was in high school, it had already caught up to me.'

She started dieting shortly after the video was shot, and lost 20 lbs. by her senior year.

'Well, I got news for you,' her dad said. 'You're a good inspiration to kids who are heavy.'

Comfort food: Jackie spent a lot of time alone as a child and found food comforting

'I mean, I battled a very terrible, terrible eating disorder for 20 years,' Jackie reminded him.

'You know something?' her dad asked. 'It's almost worth it.'

Jackie reprimanded him for even thinking such a thing, remembering that she'd once been obsessed with losing weight '24 hours a day.'

Eating disorder: The RHONJ cast member scolded her dad for saying her eating disorder that nearly killed her was 'almost worth it'

'Sometimes, if I was in the middle of a meal, I would take garbage from the garbage can and stuff it into the meal so that I physically could not eat it anymore,' she admitted.

'I was going through a personal hell, and I want him to understand how much torture I put myself through.'

Poppy, feeling attacked, shut off the video, saying: 'Alright, well, we're done with this, okay?'

Shut down: Poppy feeling attacked, shut off the video, saying: 'Alright, well, we're done with this, okay?

Many members of the RHOJ cast dealt with parenting issues over the course of the season 10 episode.

Jennifer Aydin, 42, learned that her daughter Gabriella, 12, was being bullied at school again.

'Listen, you can't let comments like that even bother you,' Jennifer told her. 'You're gonna have to find a way to just co-exist.'

Daughter bullied: Jennifer Aydin, 42, learned that her daughter Gabriella, 12, was being bullied at school again and urged her not to let rude comments bother her

When her brother Steven showed up to give her daughter Olivia, six, a piano lesson, Jennifer remembered how much Steven had loved music as a child.

Music and theatre were a place for the 'weirdos,' Steven admitted, saying that majoring in music in college helped him find his 'tribe.'

It was at that time that he came out, too, though he said he hadn't known he was gay before.

Piano lesson: Steven arrived to give his sister's daughter Olivia a piano lesson

Jennifer had no idea he was gay when they were kids, and their parents hadn't handled it well.

'Culturally, it's a shame to have a gay child,' Jennifer mused. 'So my parents know he's gay, but they never speak of it.'

Gabriella asked her mom if Steven was gay, and Jennifer said he was, asking her if it mattered.

Curious kid: Gabriella asked her mom if Steven was gay, and Jennifer said he was, asking her if it mattered

'No,' Gabriella replied. 'I've known him for my whole life. I didn't know that.'

'I never told you guys because I didn't think it was a thing to draw attention to,' Jennifer told her daughter. 'You like who you like, and that's it.'

'I was raised in a family where, you know, you didn't talk about things,' she told the cameras. 'I don't want my kids to feel like they have to keep secrets from me, ever.'

Music man: Steven came out as gay in college, but Jennifer's parents never speak about it

'Especially with all the bullying that Gabby has gone through, I want her to know that there is nothing that we as a family cannot tackle together.'

Dolores Catania, 48, hosted an upbeat Easter party for her family.

She still chided her mom and dad about their diets, noting that her dad had a heart condition called 'the widowmaker,' and needed to eat better.

Easter party: Dolores Catania also hosted an Easter party for her family

Her boyfriend David was late to the dinner, but she was just glad he'd shown up, as there was some feeling he might not be ready to commit to her, or the house she was building them.

'Is there a light at the end of the tunnel?' Dolores' father asked David, referencing marriage.

'I'm just trying to finish the house,' David replied.

Late arrival: David showed up late for his girlfriend's party and was quizzed about his intentions with her

Elsewhere on the episode, Danielle Staub, 57, dealt with her own marriage drama.

She had recently been living with her ex-husband, Marty Caffrey, whom she once claimed had abused her and her children.

Danielle wanted to buy Marty out of their old house, but she had less than 30 days to come up with the $2 million she needed to do it.

House plan: Danielle Staub told Teresa over drinks that she wanted to buy her ex Marty Caffrey out of their old house, but had less than 30 days to come up with $2 million for it

Her new boyfriend, Oliver Maier, agreed to cosign the loan.

Margaret Josephs, 52, and her husband Joe Benigno, 66, spoke to Marty, concerned that he had been drawn back into Danielle's 'evil web.'

Marty avoided answering the question of whether he had slept with Danielle, but admitted that they were living peacefully together.

Together again: Marty visited friends Margaret Josephs and her husband Joe Benigno after they had a falling out when he was with Danielle

'Marty, I think she's at peace with you for one reason,' Margaret said. 'She doesn't want to be out of that house.'

When Marty said he couldn't predict their future, Margaret insisted he find someone better.

'He f***ed her,' she spat in a confessional. 'Wow, men really are f***ing stupid.'

The Real Housewives Of New Jersey will return on January 1 on Bravo.