Her son shot to stardom after he released the hit song iYiYi in 2010.

And on Thursday Angie Simpson took to Instagram to share a sweet selfie with her famous son Cody.

In the snap, the mother-of-three cosied up to her 22-year-old son in a white puffer jacket with fur trim and black gloves as they shielded themselves from the freezing Nashville, Tennessee air.

Adorable: The mother-of-three cosied up to her 22-year-old son in a white puffer jacket with fur trim and black gloves as they shielded themselves from the freezing Nashville, Tennessee air. Pictured: Cody (left) and Angie Simpson (right)

Cody also rugged up, wearing a green beanie, black hoodie, green jacket and what appeared to be a chin warmer.

'Doesn’t get better than this,' Angie captioned the post.

Her influencer daughter Alli and youngest son Tom were noticeably absent from the snap, as was Cody's girlfriend Miley Cyrus.

Different climates: Angie Simpson took to Instagram on Thursday to share a sweet selfie of her spending time with her son Cody Simpson

Earlier this month, Angie seemed to give the tick of approval to her son's new girlfriend after she posed for a selfie with the pair and posted it on Instagram.

The former Hannah Montana star dressed elegantly in a satin long-sleeved top that effortlessly sat on the tops of her shoulders.

In the snap, Cody stuck out his tongue and wore a Viper Room beanie matched with a black shirt.

Tick of approval: Earlier this month, Angie seemed to give the tick of approval to her son's new partner after she posed for a selfie with the pair and posted it on Instagram

Angie looked effortlessly chic in a structured blazer with gold buttons, a matching top and a silver pendant necklace with a red 'X'.

She wrote in the caption: 'Being spoilt rotten by these 2 beautiful souls,' along with heart emojis - seemingly giving her stamp of approval on their blossoming romance.

Miley, Cody and Angie are reportedly set to spend Christmas in Nashville with the Cyrus clan.