She's known for her effortlessly chic sense of style.

But Kelly Brook was battling the elements on Wednesday evening, as she exited Heart Radio with her fluffy hood up to block out the wind and rain.

The presenter, 40, was wrapped up in a cosy green coat as she carried her festive gifts out of Global Studios in London.

Wrapped up: Kelly Brook, 40, was battling the elements on Wednesday evening, as she exited Heart Radio with her fluffy hood up to block out the wind and rain

As the rain poured down, Kelly ensured that she was nice and warm for the outing as she teamed a striped cable knit jumper with tight red leather leggings.

The model kept her hood up to try and protect her glossy brunette tresses from the torrential rain, and carried her essentials in a black cross-body bag.

Ahead of the festive season, Jelly appeared to have been given some Christmas gifts by her colleagues at Heart, as she carried several bags out of the studio.

Cosy: The presenter was wrapped up in a green padded coat as she carried her festive gifts out of Global Studios in London

Speaking in February, Kelly admitted that her media career has been given a second chance by Heart Radio following various forays into acting, modelling and presenting.

'It's been really lovely because I feel like I have been given another lifeline,' she told Hello!

'You think: "Oh, that's it, maybe I had my go and it's someone else's turn." When an opportunity like this comes along, all of a sudden you've got another shot.'

'I think it’s given me a new lease of life. To be doing something I love, making people feel good, is just the best. It’s the best job I could ever want. I never want it to end.'

Casual: As the rain poured down, Kelly ensured that she was nice and warm for the outing as she teamed a striped cable knit jumper with tight red leather leggings

Out and about: The model kept her hood up to try and protect her glossy brunette tresses from the torrential rain, and carried her essentials in a black cross-body bag

Kelly also celebrated her 40th birthday last month and to mark the occasion her Heart radio colleagues treated her to a steamy topless performance from the Magic Mike Live boys, who showered her with pink money.

She looked thrilled after being surprised by the hunky men while presenting her regular slot, with the guys treating her to a personal show.

Speaking after the surprise, she said: 'This is like the best birthday I’ve ever had in my whole entire life.

'I was like 60 per cent thrilled and 40 per cent mortified. It’s been absolutely insane, I’m just recovering actually.'