Advertisement

The death toll from storms that have battered Spain, Portugal, Italy and France rose to nine on Sunday as the region braced for 100 mile per hour winds and heavy rain.

Storms Elsa and Fabien have flooded rivers, brought down power lines, uprooted trees and disrupted rail and air travel across the region, leaving more than 118,000 households without electricity.

Two people have so far died in Portugal and seven have now been killed in Spain, the worst affected country, after a fisherman was swept off rocks into the sea in Catalonia.

The local government said three police officers and another fisherman had to be rescued after they tried to save the man in the resort town of Sant Feliu de Guíxols, 70 miles northeast of Barcelona.

A tree lies across a Renault hatchback after it was uprooted during Storm Fabien on Avenue Massenet, Chamalieres, in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region of southeast France on Saturday

Rowers pull boats from Montemor-o-Velho Nautical Center, flooded and isolated due to rising water from the Mondego River, caused by rain and bad weather, in Montemor-o-Velho, Portugal on Saturday

Public services remove a fallen tree on the Roman coast of Italy on Saturday after the violent storm ripped it out of the ground

People gather to watch big waves at Praia do Norte in Nazare, Portugal on Saturday. Two people have so far died in the country

The deaths in Spain include a South Korean woman killed by debris falling from a building in Madrid and a Dutch man who drowned windsurfing in rough weather off the Andalusian coast.

As a weakened Storm Elsa moved over Britain on Saturday, Storm Fabien quickly moved in, bringing winds of 106 mph to Galicia in northwestern Spain, forcing the cancellation of 14 flights according to Spanish airport operator Aena.

Some 8,000 households in Galicia were without power due to damage caused to power lines by the wind, local officials said.

Eight Madrid city parks remained shut on Saturday because of the strong winds.

Floating offices in Bordeaux that were capsized by Storm Fabien - the second storm to hit France in a week. Parks and cemeteries were closed in Bordeaux over the weekend while the Arlette Gruss circus, which had set up in a big tent in the city's main square, cancelled three performances

A house flooded by waters from the Mondego river is pictured in Montemor O Velho in Portugal on Saturday. Storms Elsa and Fabien have flooded rivers, brought down power lines, uprooted trees and disrupted rail and air travel across the region, leaving more than 118,000 households without electricity

A horse's carcass lies on the beach on Saturday after the violent storm lashed Italy's Roman coast

Huge waves break on the cliffs of the coast of Llanes, Spain, on Friday

However, Spanish officials said on Sunday that Fabien was moving away quickly.

Parks and cemeteries were also closed in Bordeaux in southwestern France on Saturday while the Arlette Gruss circus, which had set up in a big tent in the city's main square, cancelled three performances.

France's weather office placed 15 regions in the southwest of the country on orange alert Saturday, as the storm battered its Atlantic coast.

The winds were as fast as 91 mph at Socoa, in the southwest near the border with Spain. Even on the northwest coast of Brittany, winds reached up to 75 mph.

The region was still being buffeted by gusts of up to 56 miles an hour on Sunday.

The city of Cascais is seen in the distance while waves crash against the rocks tin Praia da PoÇa the day after the passing of storm Fabien on Saturday in December 22, 2019 in São João do Estoril, Portugal

Eaves torn up and trees fallen due to the strong wind in Naples, Italy, on Saturday

Across southwestern France, violent winds left 110,000 households without electricity, officials said on Sunday.

France's SNCF rail network cancelled services between Bordeaux, Toulouse and Hendaye in the southwest because of the likelihood of winds blowing trees down on to the line.

Officials on the French Mediterranean island of Corsica closed all the island's airports because of the approaching storm. Ferry services to the mainland have also been suspended.

Roads into Corsica's city of Ajaccio were also closed to try to prevent people from getting caught in floods.