Newlyweds Justin and Hailey Bieber - who tied the knot September 30 at South Carolina resort Palmetto Bluff - attended church services together in Los Angeles on Wednesday night.

The 25-year-old Grammy winner and the 23-year-old IMG Model famously remained celibate until after securing their marriage license at a New York courthouse on September 13, 2018.

The devout Christian couple plan on having 'babies next season' after their 'beachy' honeymoon and Christmas celebrations at their $5M estate on Ontario's Puslinch Lake.

Newlyweds: Justin and Hailey Bieber - who tied the knot September 30 at South Carolina resort Palmetto Bluff - attended church services together in Los Angeles on Wednesday night

'I definitely pride myself on my gift giving,' Hailey boasted to British Vogue this month.

'I enjoy giving people gifts. I don't love receiving them if I'm honest - it makes me feel awkward.'

The Drop the Mic co-host added: 'The biggest goal for me for 2020 is to get more involved in things that make a difference. There's so much going on in the world.'

Eyebrows raised when the Biebers rekindled their on/off romance in June 2018 - just three months after Justin ended his on/off relationship with pop star Selena Gomez.

You gotta have faith: The 25-year-old Grammy winner and the 23-year-old IMG Model famously remained celibate until after securing their marriage license at a New York courthouse on September 13, 2018

Plans: The devout Christian couple plan on having 'babies next season' after their 'beachy' honeymoon and Christmas celebrations at their $5M estate on Ontario's Puslinch Lake

Hailey boasted to British Vogue this month: 'I definitely pride myself on my gift giving. I enjoy giving people gifts. I don't love receiving them if I'm honest - it makes me feel awkward'

En route: That same day, Hailey Insta-storied a 'yummy' snap of Justin sporting a blue 'do good in silence' baseball cap in the car

'Find a comfy position and enjoy!' The Canadian crooner and the Arizona-born blonde frequently spread the gospel on social media by posting Churchome guided prayers and Bible-inspired memes

That same day, Hailey - who boasts 23.8M followers - Insta-storied a 'yummy' snap of Justin sporting a blue 'do good in silence' baseball cap in the car en route to church.

The Canadian crooner and the Arizona-born blonde frequently spread the gospel on social media by posting Churchome guided prayers and Bible-inspired memes.

Joining the Biebers - who met at Justin's 2009 meet-and-greet - at church was two-time Grammy nominee Demi Lovato dressed down in a black hoodie and matching leggings.

The troubled 27-year-old pop star survived an opioid overdose in 2018 shortly after celebrating six years of sobriety.

Pop starlet: Joining the Biebers at church was two-time Grammy nominee Demi Lovato dressed down in a black hoodie and matching leggings

Comeback: The troubled 27-year-old pop star survived an opioid overdose in 2018 shortly after celebrating six years of sobriety

Hey girl! Justin - who also suffers from depression - put a supportive arm around Demi as they headed inside the venue

Feeling better: Lovato flashed a huge grin as Bieber hugged their shared manager, Scooter Braun (L), whom the Sober singer signed with on May 11

Line up: The 38-year-old power broker (R) famously discovered the 10,000 Hours singer back in 2007 when he was just a 13-year-old YouTube star living in Canada

Justin - who also suffers from depression - put a supportive arm around Demi as they headed inside the venue.

Lovato flashed a huge grin as Bieber hugged their shared manager, Scooter Braun, whom the Sober singer signed with on May 11.

The 38-year-old power broker famously discovered the 10,000 Hours singer back in 2007 when he was just a 13-year-old YouTube star living in Canada.

Hailey skipped her Grandmother Carol's 90th birthday bash, which reunited her father Stephen Baldwin with five of his six siblings - including SNL star Alec Baldwin.

Justin is 'pretty much done' with his fifth studio album inspired by 'his struggles with depression' and he's 'aiming for early 2020' release, according to E! News.

'Five out of six ain't bad!' Hailey skipped her Grandmother Carol's (B-M) 90th birthday bash, which reunited her father Stephen Baldwin (T-R) with five of his six siblings - including SNL star Alec Baldwin (T-L)