Motorists are being urged by the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency not to forget to have cars MOT-tested as many could be at the wheel of motors with potentially 'dangerous' defects.

Last December, there were 385,859 cases of late MOT where motorists were using their cars illegally, it has revealed, suggesting many simply forget to do it in the busy festive run-in.

An alarming 50,000 of these cars were found to have problems listed as 'dangerous' under the current MOT test rules, which deems them unfit to be driven on the road.

Dangerous: DVSA warns there could be 50,000 cars on the road this month with serious faults that deem them unfit to be driven - and risk owners being stung with £2,500 fines

The DVSA made big changes to the MOT test in April 2018, introducing new defect categories to determine the severity of problems with vehicles.

While 'minor' defects still pass and can be rectified at a later date, faults deemed to be 'major' or - the most extreme - 'dangerous' automatically result in a fail.

However, the latter is considered so serious that a car cannot be legally driven on the road and, if caught, drivers will be fined as much as £2,500.

Data from last year shows that 1.5million vehicles were MOT tested in December.

Of these, 385,859 were late, meaning a quarter were being used illegally. If caught using a car without a valid MOT, drivers face fines of up to £1,000.

When they were eventually assessed, 49,588 were failed for dangerous defects.

These included bald tyres and broken head lights, both of which are hazardous at any time of the year, but more so during the winter months.

The figures show that of all vehicles late for an MOT, three quarters were because car owners forgot it was due.

But this shouldn't be a problem, given that the DVSA has a free MOT Reminder service that notifies motorists when their motor needs the annual inspection.

The AA estimated there will be some 143million vehicle journeys on UK roads over the Christmas week as people head home for the festivities

Three quarters of car owners who had overdue MOT tests in December last year said they had forgotten their vehicle needed the assessment that month

Chris Price, head of MOT policy at the government agency, said: 'DVSA's priority is helping everyone keep their vehicle safe to drive.

'It's easy to forget your car's MOT amid the hustle and bustle and seasonal cheer, but making sure your car is safe before you set off is crucial.

'Carrying out five simple checks and making sure your car has a valid MOT will help you and your family have a happy Christmas and will help us keep everyone safe on Britain's roads.'

With the AA predicted there will be 142.9 million car journeys between December 19 and 28, the DVSA is urging drivers to carry out five simple road safety checks on tyres, lights, brakes and windscreens and make sure the car has an up to date MOT.