Christmas party season is in full swing, but as you knock back your favourite tipple, have you thought about the damage that you could be causing to your teeth?

One dentist who knows all too well about the effects December drinking can have on your molars is Dr Christopher Orr.

The 47-year-old is the owner of Advanced Dental Practice in London - and he revealed mixers are the biggest culprit.

Champagne, Prosecco and white wines are also on the list of biggest offenders when it comes to teeth.

Fizzy, fruity mixers: Mixers with alcohol can be catastrophic for teeth. This woman, 47, was left with very severe erosion, pictured left and right, from drinking them frequently

'The PH levels in wines are all different and it is difficult to pinpoint, but the most acidic wines tend to be white wines such as Riesling and Chablis,' says Dr Orr.

'However, red wines such as Pinot Noir can also be acidic, so bear that in mind.

'Sweet wines tend to be the worst offenders as they have a high sugar content.

'This means your favourite Prosecco, Champagne, sweet rose and sweet dessert wine can be more damaging to your teeth.

Prosecco and Champagne: Continuous sipping on fizzy alcoholic drinks such as Prosecco and Champagne left this 32-year-old woman with eroded teeth

'Contact time in the mouth is the main problem. Using a straw reduces the contact with the teeth and rinsing the mouth with sips of water helps the saliva in reducing the acidity in the mouth. Enjoy the festive season, but enjoy it responsibly.'

Dr Orr, who has been a dentist for 22 years, released a series of pictures to show the damage that sweet and fizzy drinks can cause to teeth.

He explained: 'Mixers are sugary and acidic, so it's a double whammy for teeth.

'The body's natural defence to protect teeth is saliva, but it needs time to produce this - usually about half an hour.

Wine: This 36-year-old lady's severe erosion is down to drinking wine - some teeth in the lower left area have been lost due to the severity of the erosion

'If you are sipping on something for several hours, which happens at Christmas parties, your body won't have the chance to do this.

This is what allows the damage to teeth to occur. Acid softens tooth enamel.'

Dr Orr warned this time of year is a prime time for causing harm to vulnerable teeth.

'Over-consumption of alcoholic drinks at this time of year is very easy,' he said.

'Lemon-flavoured mixers and fizzy drinks like Coke and Diet Coke will cause erosion damage to teeth because of the acidity.

'When you lose part of a tooth, it cannot be replaced. When it comes to your teeth, it is important to preserve what you have.'