British Gas customers with a pre-pay meter will have 15,000 fewer locations to choose from when topping up from 1 January 2020, affecting thousands of people nationwide.

Customers must now top up at Payzone terminals across the country, of which there are 13,000, as opposed to the Paypoint stations that were previously used, of which the network consists of a far larger 28,000.

Households will now also only be able to spend a minimum of £5 when topping up their card as opposed to the previous limit of £1.

This will no doubt come as a massive blow to those struggling to keep on top of bills and rely on being able to top up just a few pounds at a time.

British Gas customers on prepayment plans now have 15,000 less locations to top up at

From next year, prepayment customers can top up in person at 11,500 local Post Offices - as they can now - or 13,000 Payzone locations.

They can also top-up online if they have or can get smart prepayment meters installed.

These let customers top up online, via a mobile app or over the phone although they will still need to top up a minimum of £5.

The Post Office says that nationally 94 per cent of the population live within one mile of a Post Office or Payzone outlet and says Payzone is working with British Gas to fill in any gaps in areas where a Payzone outlet could operate.

Although British Gas haven't revealed how many pre-payment customers they have, there are currently 4.3million pre-payment customers in total in the UK, according to Ofgem.

Customers with these meters are able to top up their energy as and when needed, without paying a monthly fee.

Many of these people are on a low income, are in debt to their energy supplier or need a short term service, meaning the changes are likely to affect the most vulnerable in society.

Rik Smith, energy expert at uSwitch, said: 'This is bad news, and yet again unfairly penalises customers on prepayment meters, which is the most expensive way of paying for energy.

'The increased minimum top up will likely put pressure on those facing the daily struggle of choosing between putting the heating on this winter or feeding themselves and their family.

'With the £1 minimum being made available only to online and app users, those without internet access will be forced to commit to the £5 minimum in the Post Office or newsagent - leaving people in need in a very rigid arrangement.

'While pre-pay can be used as a way to manage daily spending, the rate energy customers pay on a prepaid tariff is generally far higher than those paying on both a standard credit meter, or a fixed rate.

'Anyone affected by this move who thinks they won't be able to afford a minimum £5 top up should look to see if other suppliers can offer them a cheaper prepayment tariff.

'Households with pre-payment meters who are in debt can switch supplier provided the amount they owe is less than £500.'

A British Gas spokesman said: 'It is vital that our customers are able to access this important service and we are working closely with PayZone to ensure that we meet the demands of our customers.

'We have undertaken an analysis of the areas impacted by the change and PayZone has committed to work with British Gas to increase its reach in areas where we foresee we will need additional services.

'We are also working with Citizens Advice to help address any uncertainty regarding the new service and clarify any questions consumers may have.'

Those looking for where their nearest Payzone terminal can check here.

Pre-payment customers have taken to social media to express their frustration at the Big Six supplier's recent decision:

This user said that she knows of families who are unable to top up larger amounts at a time

Another Twitter user said that the increase suggests that British Gas 'hates poor people'

One user said she was very angry with British Gas' decision to increase the minimum payment

Can you get a better deal?

British Gas' prepayment 'Safeguard' tariff costs on average £1,216.04 per year, which is a fraction under the prepayment price cap limit of £1,217.

However, households could save money by switching to a different supplier for their pre-payment tariff.

The cheapest current prepayment tariff is with Bulb on their 'Vari-Fair' tariff costing on average £1,025.22 a year – a difference of £171.55.

Bulb was vocal earlier in the year about prepayment costs, stating that millions of households are paying too much for their energy when they have a pre-pay meter.

The number of homes requiring a pre-pay meter installed under warrant by court to recover debt went up from 81,000 to 84,000.

Other top tariffs include Nabuh Energy with their SMART PAYG Lizzy Tariff, fixed for 12 months, which costs an average of £1,035.76.

As mentioned above, you'll need to be less than £500 in debt with your supplier in order to switch.

Where possible, getting off a pre-pay meter can pay dividends.

The cheapest fixed deal on the market at the moment is Utility Point's Just Up 19 Wk49 Direct v3 tariff which costs £822 a year on average - £203.22 than the cheapest prepayment deal and £394.04 cheaper than British Gas' prepayment tariff.