Liverpool have confirmed the signing of Red Bull Salzburg star Takumi Minamino for just £7.25million.

The Premier League leaders beat rivals Manchester United to the Japanese forward, who impressed during two Champions League meetings with the Reds this season.

'It has been a dream, my dream to become a Liverpool player. And I'm so excited that the moment has come true,' he told the club's official website.

Takumi Minamino puts pen to paper on his contract with Liverpool after leaving RB Salzburg

The Japanese star will wear the No 18 shirt at Anfield when he officially joins on January 1

Minamino is greeted by Reds midfielder Fabinho on Wednesday - the day he signed his deal

MINAMINO FACTFILE Age: 24 Clubs: Cerezo Osaka (2012-14), Red Bull Salzburg (2015-19), Liverpool (2020-present) Nationality: Japanese International caps: 22 Position: Forward 2019-20 stats Matches: 20 Goals: 7 Assists: 8

'To play in the Premier League was one of my targets. I think this is the top-class league in the world; I was thinking if my career as a footballer progressed smoothly, some day I would be able to play in the Premier League.

'But I never thought I would be able to play in this team and I'm really happy about it. I'm looking forward to it.'

Minamino, who will wear No 18 at Anfield, will officially join Liverpool when the transfer window opens on January 1.

He underwent a medical and signed his contract on Wednesday, and could make his debut for the club against Merseyside rivals in the third round of the FA Cup on January 5.

Speaking about his experiences playing against Jurgen Klopp's side in Europe this term, Minamino added: 'From those games I learned this team has such a high level of technique and intensity,' he added.

Minamino has joined Liverpool for just £7.25m after they activated his release clause

The forward underwent a medical on Wednesday before signing his contract with Liverpool

The 24-year-old Japan international poses with his new shirt after completing his move

'Their football is of such a high level and I did feel that they were the champions of the Champions League. Feeling that, it makes me feel even happier that I can play in this team. I'm really happy to be part of that team.

'My target is to win the Premier League and the Champions League, and to make good contributions to the team.'

Klopp, meanwhile, has hailed the 24-year-old as a 'proper team player' after he put pen to paper on what is believe to be a four-and-a-half year contract.

'This is fabulous news – a wonderful signing. We are really, really happy about this,' Klopp said.

'Our supporters have had the chance to see him close up recently so I don't need to sing too loudly about his qualities as they are already known.

'Takumi is a very quick, very clever player, he finds space between the lines. He is brave with the ball but also brave without the ball – a proper team player. He makes the best of himself for the benefit of others.

Minamino, pictured signing his new No 18 shirt, could make his debut against rivals Everton

The former Cerezo Osaka man sits down for his first interview with Liverpool's official website

Minamino will compete for a place in Liverpool's front three but can also play a deeper role

'His Champions League experience is a big bonus and coming from the club and organisation he does, we know he'll be well coached, used to an elite environment and had all the right experiences.

'It is fantastic work by our football operations team in how they've handled this transfer. Michael Edwards and the team deserve a lot of credit.'

Minamino can play across the front three or in the No 10 role so Klopp will have plenty of options, though he is unlikely to usurp Roberto Firmino, Mohamed Salah or Sadio Mane with everyone fit.

His technical prowess and eye for goal impressed not only the Liverpool scouts, but also senior players, who mentioned to coaches how highly they rated him after both group games in the Champions League.

Minamino has seven goals and five assists in all competitions so far this season.

Minamino impressed during two Champions League games against Liverpool this season

The 24-year-old is Japan's biggest star and has 22 caps for his country since debuting in 2015

Minamino celebrates after scoring a Champions League goal against Genk in November

Those in charge of transfers at Liverpool believe his true value to be above the £20m mark so £7.25m represents a low risk high reward transfer for the club.

'It's not hard to see why Salzburg is a favoured destination for players with real talent and hunger,' Klopp added.

'From our experiences dealing with, and facing, Salzburg on and off the pitch in recent months, their reputation as a benchmark modern European club will only grow.

'I'm sure all the Liverpool supporters will go out of their way to make Takumi feel at home in our amazing city and club.

'I am also pretty sure as of now we have added to our numbers of the LFC family in Japan specifically. For those who follow us now because we have one of the country's most exciting talents, I say welcome – it's a special club to be part of.'