There are a whole host of savings accounts out there, each with its own bumper list of baffling small print, making picking the right one for you a confusing task.

Should you choose easy-access to your cash, lock into a better fixed rate, or even try to eke out some more from a regular saver?

Not all accounts are created equal, and the best one to build up your nest egg will be a personal decision, dependent on the type of saver you are and your time frame.

To help you sort the wheat from the chaff, and cut out the leg work, here's our run down of what each type of savings account offers, who they might be better suited to, and the ones to watch out for.

How to win at saving: Choosing the best account is half the battle to growing your savings

Easy-access savings

As the names suggest, these allow you to deposit and withdraw cash whenever you like, making them an ideal choice for an emergency savings pot to cover unexpected costs.

If you don't have any savings in place these are your first port of call, and the general rule is that you should have at least three month's salary saved for unexpected costs.

Andrew Hagger of Moneycomms says: 'The first savings account you should consider is a straightforward easy access savings account - these are ideal for first-time savers due to the flexibility, plus you can get your hands on your savings quickly in case you need them in an emergency or for an unexpected bill.

'The downside is that the interest rates are lower than longer fixed term savings bonds but that's the trade off for being able to access your money when you choose.'

When comparing accounts check for restrictions, for example a maximum amount of withdrawals that can be made per year. Some don't allow you to take money out of the account more than twice or three times per year, or penalise you if you do.

While the point of saving is not to dip in and out of your account frequently, if you think you might need to you may be better off with an account without withdrawal restrictions.

Watch out too for accounts that come with a temporary bonus. These pay a boosted rate for a set period, typically a year.

Once this is over the interest rate drops, meaning they are only suited to those who will remember to move to a better paying account when this happens.

Remember these accounts come with variable rates, which means providers can reduce they amount they pay at any time, so it is good practice to review rates regularly to ensure you are still getting the best deal.

Locked up: Fixed term bonds mean you lock your money away in return for a higher rate

Notice accounts

Notice accounts are a half way house between an easy access account and fixed-term bond.

As with an easy access account you can withdraw your money penalty-free, however there are restrictions.

To do so, you need to give the bank notice first - between 30 and 180 days typically.

In return for giving up instant access, these accounts offer slightly higher rates than easy access accounts.

They are best not used for emergency funds, but they do give a bit more flexibility if you are concerned about locking your money away, as you would with a fixed-term bond.

Regular saver accounts

If you already have a small pot for emergencies covered but don't put money away regularly, these accounts can be a good way to start a real savings habit.

Savers drip feed cash into them each month, usually for up to a year. Most allow monthly deposits of up to £300.

Some banks previously offered rates of 5 per cent however sadly these deals have dried up and accounts now pay up to 2.75 per cent.

This is much higher than a one-year bond, but remember you won't get the full benefit of the rate across your whole balance until the final month.

You won't be allowed to withdraw your cash until the term is up, plus if you miss any monthly deposits there may be a penalty.

The most lucrative accounts are typically offered as a perk to current account customers.

Regular savings vs lump sum When rates were better adding a lump sum little by little into a generous regular savings account was a clever trick to maximise interest. However this tactic may not leave you quids in any more. Put £300 per month into a regular saver paying 2.75 per cent and you will earn £45.72 in interest. Put the same amount into the top one-year bond paying 1.85 per cent at the time of writing and you in fact earn more - £67.17. That said, you are better off with a regular saver if you are trying to set up a savings habit and add to your pot gradually.

Fixed rate accounts

A fixed rate account pays a consistent rate of interest for the length of the bond. You won't be able to withdraw the cash until the term is up, otherwise there will be a penalty.

Most banks offer terms of between one and five years, however you can find accounts offering terms between three months and seven years.

The longer the bond, the higher the rate will be. The trade-off being that you are locking your cash away for longer, and rates could improve (or worsen) during this time.

These accounts are of course best used for longer term savings which you won't need access to.

Cash Isas

Individual savings accounts - Isas - offer a tax-free wrapper, shielding interest from 20 or 40 per cent income tax.

The government sets the limit on how much you can squirrel away into an Isa each tax year. At present the limit is £20,000, and this is shared across both cash and investment Isas.

Saving as a couple? If you are saving as a couple and one of you earns less, you may want to put non-Isa savings in the name of the person in the lower tax band as they will have a higher personal savings allowance. The personal savings allowance is £1,000 for 20 per cent payers but just £500 for 40 per cent tax payers.

This limit renews every April you can't carry any unused allowance forward. You can however open a new account and transfer existing Isa funds into it - this ensures that you continue to get the best rate.

You will be allowed to withdraw money from your cash Isa, depending on the account terms of course. However most accounts won't give you that bit of your tax-free allowance back if you choose to put the money back in.

Just as with taxable accounts there are several different versions including easy-access, fixed-rate, notice deals.

Rachel Springall, of personal finance site Moneyfacts, says: 'Isas have suffered low interest rates for a few years, but they are still an ideal choice for savers who have sizeable pots and wish to invest over the longer-term.'

Saving for your child: A Junior Isa allows you to save up to £4,368 tax-free this year

Junior Isas

Junior Isas offer those under the age of 18 tax-free savings too.

They can be opened by parents and guardians and won't allow kids to access the cash until they reach the age of 18.

The rates are higher than those of standard cash Isas, up to 3.6 per cent, but the annual limit is lower than a standard Isa. This tax year it is set at £4,368.

Read more about Junior Isas here.

Cash Isas vs Personal Savings Allowance The Personal Savings Allowance introduced in 2016 offers tax breaks on standard savings accounts. Lower rate tax payers get up to £1,000 worth of interest per year tax free, while those paying 40 per cent get a slimmer £500 allowance. While savings rates are low, it would take a sizeable balance to push most savers beyond these thresholds, but this could (fingers crossed) change in the future. On an account paying 1.5 per cent those in the 20 per cent tax bracket would need just under £67,000 to earn more than £1,000 from their savings a year. Higher-rate tax payers would need just over £33,000 to reach the £500 threshold. While it may seem a long way off at the moment, if interest rates go up, a personal savings allowance will be used up more quickly, which means a cash Isa is likely a safer option for those with larger balances long term. Over the long term as your savings grow, no matter the balance or level of interest earned, an Isa will remain tax-free forever.

Government-sponsored savings

There are some specialist types of Isa designed for specific types of saver that offer extra cash payouts from the Government on top of standard interest.

These accounts are more complicated than a typical Isa with different limits and extra hoops you may have to jump through. However, if it's the right fit for your circumstances they are well worth going the extra mile and filling up first with £1,000s in contributions from the Government, if you max them out.

Lifetime Isa

A lifetime Isa could earn your up to a £33,000 bonus from the Government on savings used for either your first home or retirement.

Hagger explains:'For those looking to save for their first home and aged between 18 and 39 then the Lifetime ISA is a good option - you can save up to £4,000 per year and the government gives you a 25 per cent bonus each year on what you save so if you save the maximum you can get a bonus of £1,000 (tax free).

'The Lisa deal is per person so if there are two of you saving for your first home you can both take one out and maximise your bonus from the government.'

There are only a few banks offering these savings accounts. You can check the rates on offer in our regularly updated Isa savings tables.

To find out more about the Lifetime Isa read our guide here

Help-to-Buy Isa

If you want a Help-to-Buy Isa, a specialist account designed just for first-time homebuyers, you will need to act quick and open one before November 30 this year.

You can put away up to £1,200 in the first month, then £200 after that and the Government will pay a 25 per cent bonus, up to £3,000 on your savings when you withdraw them to buy a home.

You can read more about how Help to Buy Isa's work here .

Can you use your current account to beat low savings rates?

Some current accounts offer interest on your balance, or a portion of it.

Often the interest on these accounts is higher than those offered on best-buy savings accounts, reaching up to 5 per cent.

It can be worth opening one of these accounts to stash your savings into to maximise your interest.

You can read more about the 5 per cent savings trick, and the accounts offering the best interest rates in our dedicated guide, here.