Kim Kardashian channelled Elizabeth Taylor in a stunning new shoot for 7Hollywood.

The mother-of-four looked incredible as she dazzled in an array of very sexy outfits, including a black strapless sequin gown with an elaborate neckline.

Another shot saw her wearing a white shirt dress over the top of the sequins as she posed seductively with one hand on her hip.

Glamour: Kim Kardashian channelled Elizabeth Taylor in a dazzling strapless sequin dress before going braless in a plunging number for 7Hollywood magazine

All that glitters... Wearing a short wig, she also slipped into a plunging glitzy dress which she went braless underneath

Mrs. West is featured in the upcoming issue of @7Hollywood_Mag, wearing @ManfredTMugler. Stay tuned for the issue, coming soon! pic.twitter.com/kHFM4ukKnZ — KKW FORMATION (@KKWFORMATION) December 18, 2019

Wearing a short wig, she also slipped into a plunging glitzy dress which she went braless underneath.

The incredible pictures were styled by Manfred Thierry Mugler and directed by Alix Malka and Kim shared some of them on social media on Thursday.

It's not the first time Kim has worked with fashion house Mugler.

Powerful: Another shot saw her wearing a white shirt dress over the top of the sequins as she posed seductively with one hand on her hip

Confidence: Kim appeared perfectly at ease as she smouldered in the snaps

Razzle dazzle: Kim's daring outfit choice was a real show-stopper and had elaborate embellishments

Bright thing: An 80s red power suit made Kim stand out against a neutral background

He famously styled her incredible Met Gala, which pulled the designer out of retirement and took eight months to make.

The latex corseted dress had beaded crystals hanging from her as if they were drops of water.

It was so sexy that it caused a little friction with her husband Kanye when he saw it ahead of the iconic fashion event.

It's a bling thing: Kim's fingers were decorated with large cocktail rings

Glamourpuss: Her make-up harked back to a previous era with thick black liner, false eyelashes and a nude lip - and those diamonds were hard to miss

The 80s called: Kim also wore this stunning number with the famous Mugler neckline and statement jewels as she leaned against a brick wall

Droplets of rain: Mugler famously styled Kim's incredible Met Gala creation, which pulled the designer out of retirement and took eight months to make.

He told Kim: 'You are my wife and it affects me when pictures are too sexy' before he was seen walking off on an episode of Keeping Up With The Kardashians.

'The corset, the underwear, all that vibe, I just feel like. I just went through this transition where from being a rapper, looking at all these girls...looking at my wife.

The full shoot is in 7Hollywood, out now

'[thinking]"My girl needs to be just like all the other girls and showing her body off, showing this, showing that".'

'I didn't realise that that was affecting my soul and my spirit as someone that's married and loved and the father - now of about to be four kids,' he told Kim.

Kanye continued: 'The corset, it's a form of underwear - it's hot but hot for who?'

Kim responded that she was in a different place to Kanye and said: 'I don't need any more negative energy for you to now say that you're not into me wearing a tight dress.

He responded: 'You are my wife and it affects me when pictures are too sexy.'

The full shoot appears in 7Hollywood, out now.

Back to black: She teamed the number with incredible statement gloves, vintage tights and her dress had a sexy thigh-high split