On Saturday, the Mail ran the first of an exclusive three-part murder mystery story by Grantchester creator James Runcie.

After chopping down his Christmas tree, Sir Michael Barton was found, some time later, brutally murdered, apparently with the very axe he had used to fell the tree.

Immediately, the Reverend Sidney Chambers's mind set to work on the case.

Here, in Part Two, the net begins to close in on the killer . . .

As he looked out at the congregation from his pulpit on a dense misty morning on the Sunday before Christmas, 1962, the thoughts of the Rev Sidney Chambers strayed from the incarnation of our Lord Jesus Christ towards the contemplation of who might have killed Sir Michael Barton on the previous night.

Although it was the season of goodwill, and the bulk of his parishioners were decent, God-fearing people, there was now the distinct possibility that at least one of them, sitting in the pews before him, was an out-and-out murderer. But which one?

The victim had been found in the stables of Grantchester Manor, struck down by the very axe he had used to cut down his Christmas tree hours earlier.

All the guests at the party had been inside at the time, singing Rudolf The Red Nosed Reindeer.

Sir Michael's wife Carol had been sloshed and flirtatious, his son Eddie had been boring Sidney about early versions of Christmas and the life of St Nicholas, while Sir Michael's estate manager and lawyer, Simon Walsh, had been leading the communal singing dressed as Father Christmas.

Geordie and Sidney had a look to see how Philly had made a little home-from-home in her lodgings. There was a vase of late chrysanthemums, photographs of actor friends, Christmas greetings and even a good luck card from Sir Michael Barton

Sidney could not remember seeing the man's wife Christine — the local vet — but she was incapacitated with a broken arm, and the other main suspect, the actress Philly Cotton, had gone back to her digs.

That only left Alice, the maid, who was eight months pregnant and had enough trouble picking up a tray of canapes, let alone an axe.

As the congregation began the final verse of O Come, O Come, Emmanuel Sidney noticed his friend Inspector Geordie Keating was waiting for him at the West End.

He was going to have to cut short the parish breakfast, he knew it, and would almost certainly be spending the rest of the day mired in a police investigation rather than visiting his parishioners.

But perhaps, he thought, he could combine the two activities by asking questions on his rounds that might help the police.

'Fancy a pint?' Keating asked

'A bit early isn't it?'

'I haven't gone to bed, Sidney. I was having a quiet evening at home, listening to Those Were the Days on the wireless, and then all hell broke loose. Pity me.'

'We'll have to wait until it opens.'

'Then we can share our thoughts over a quiet cigarette.'

Keating's main concern was that there was still no sign of the murder weapon. 'Everyone is presuming it's an axe, and that it's the same one that Sir Michael and his son used to fell the tree because it's missing.'

'You went back to the woods?'

'The boy took us there. No sign. And we've searched the house and the stables. But it can't be the only sharp instrument in the village. Anyway, have you thought about who might . . .'

'Have an axe to grind?' Sidney asked.

'I suppose you think that's funny.'

'Trying my best.'

'Love or money, Sidney. It's usually one of the two. Was Sir Michael in debt, does he have a shady past and is there a fancy woman on the side? Some of this must be your territory,'

'It's all my territory. And I think it could be to do with either or all of those things. I heard Sir Michael arguing with his estate manager; and he left the community singing, almost certainly for an assignation . . .'

'With the actress?'

'Possibly. But she made quite a departure.'

'What about Christine Walsh? She discovered the body. And we don't know for sure that her arm was broken. We can check that.'

Although it was the season of goodwill, and the bulk of his parishioners were decent, God-fearing people, there was now the distinct possibility that at least one of them, sitting in the pews before him, was an out-and-out murderer. But which one?

'I certainly didn't see her at the end of the party.'

'But you saw her husband?'

'We all saw him. He was leading the singing as Father Christmas.'

'We can look into that, too. Are you coming with me? We might as well return to the scene of the crime.'

That was not what Sidney wanted to do that day.

Christmas was almost upon him and he was behind with everything; his duties and responsibilities, the preparations for the Nativity play and his Christmas sermon, but he supposed he could justify the return to Grantchester Manor by arguing that he was going to give comfort to those who mourn.

Inspector Keating had forgotten about the need for a pint of beer.

'We'll just get this done, Sidney.'

There was an eerie fog on the meadows and the road was still icy.

'I sometimes wonder,' Keating continued as he drove, 'how people would behave if they knew that they were going to die later that day. Presumably they'd try to do everything in their power to avoid it.'

'There is a difference between dying naturally and being murdered.'

'But do you think Sir Michael was aware that someone might want to kill him?'

'On the day of his party?'

'It might have crossed his mind. Most people think about it sometime. You never know the time or the hour. That's one of yours isn't it?'

'The parable of the wise and foolish virgins.'

'There's not too many of them around here.'

He parked the car. 'We just have to hope they're ready to talk.'

Lady Caro was slouched on a chintz sofa, dressed in a silk day gown, wearing dark glasses, smoking a cigarette, a gin and tonic by her side. 'The greatest mystery, of course, is how my husband lasted so long,' she said. 'So many wanted to kill him.'

'Including yourself?'

'I'd have done it long ago, don't you think? But it's more interesting being married to a bastard than a bore.'

'I am sure there are other possibilities,' Sidney remarked.

'Not really. In my experience, after the love has gone, a marriage either dwindles into a steady companionship where the couple spend most of their time apart; or they learn to live with simmering resentment.'

'Until one of you turns it up to a boil,' Keating observed.

'I didn't kill my husband, Inspector. I'm not stupid.'

Her son Eddie entered the room carrying a shotgun. 'I'm just going out to pot a few pheasant with friends. Take my mind off the whole damn thing.'

'I don't think I saw you in Church,' Sidney observed.

'I was helping with the police search. I thought I might be allowed the morning off, under the circs.'

'Priests don't take mornings off,' said Keating. 'The eyes of the Lord are always watching you.'

'But I'm not a priest yet. I only have to worry about the eyes of the law.'

'And they're on you now. How well did you get on with your father?'

'Not too badly considering he didn't want me to become a priest and I didn't like him being a drunken philanderer.'

'You had a quarrel at the party.'

The victim had been found in the stables of Grantchester Manor, struck down by the very axe he had used to cut down his Christmas tree hours earlier. All the guests at the party had been inside at the time, singing Rudolf The Red Nosed Reindeer

'He was shouting at me because I was annoying him. That's an occupational hazard of being his son. But I've worked out that there is no better way of taking revenge on your enemies than by being happy.

'And, ironically, seeing their fury makes you even happier. I shouldn't laugh about it, but I do. So, you see, Inspector, why would I need to kill my father? I've won already.'

As soon as they left the interview, Geordie insisted on a fortifying stiffener in the pub.

'I can't make him out at all,' he began. 'Imagine thinking of your father as an 'enemy'. Do you think that boy will actually make it to the priesthood?'

'He will never get through theological college.'

'Then what will he do?'

'Take over the estate, I imagine.'

'And turn into his father?'

'Probably.'

'Then let's hope we're not back here in 30 years' time. At least they might have found the axe by then.'

The two friends turned their attention to the question of the pregnant maid. Could Sir Michael be the father to Alice's unborn child? Perhaps he was due to have his assignation with her? And if the baby was his, then perhaps he planned to change his will in her favour?

Could that be the reason he was having such a heated discussion with his estate manager?

'It's too obvious,' Keating explained. 'Normally, they're put out to grass. The maid's given some money, disappears back home, has the baby, it's given away and then everyone pretends nothing has happened. People don't normally carry on in full view like this, especially if everyone is going to gossip about it.'

'Which people do anyway.'

'I suppose it could be a double bluff. Will you ask her Sidney?'

'Why can't you?'

'Because she won't tell me the truth. I'm a policeman. You're a clergyman. People trust you.'

'They won't for much longer if they know I'm working for you.'

'It's all out in the open by now. Perhaps that's what they've been doing. Sir Michael and little Alice. No one thinks they'd dare.'

'Then why is Sir Michael dead?' Sidney asked.

'Maybe one of his other women got wind of it?'

'Or one of the husbands?'

'What do you think of the Walsh couple? Do you think Sir Michael had his wicked way with the vet as well?'

After chopping down his Christmas tree, Sir Michael Barton was found, some time later, brutally murdered, apparently with the very axe he had used to fell the tree. Immediately, the Reverend Sidney Chambers's mind set to work on the case

'And her husband got jealous?'

'Or she did it herself?'

'With a broken arm? I don't know Geordie, but I am sure they know far more than they're ever going to tell the police.

'Then that's where you come in.'

The Walsh residence was an extended mock Tudor cottage with a thatched roof and fields out the back that stretched all the way down to the London road.

Christine was sweeping the front yard one handed and making heavy weather of it.

'I just need something to do to take my mind off it all,' she said.

'You were fond of Sir Michael . . .'

'I wouldn't say 'fond'. We had more of a love-hate relationship. Most people did. He could be both terribly charming and an out and out s**t.'

'Did he ever . . ?' Sidney began tentatively.

'Try it on with me? Of course. He tried it on with everyone. I think he considered it a form of politeness. He didn't seem to mind if a woman said no.

'There would always be another one. He thought it was all part of his charm, offering women 'a bonus'.'

'He certainly preferred it to giving anyone any money,' her husband added, as he came out of the front door.

'He gave it to you, though,' Sidney replied. 'I was an employee. That is different.'

'I heard you, on the day of the party, coming out of the study. There was talk of a bribe.'

'You weren't supposed to hear that.'

'What was your conversation about?' Keating asked.

'That's confidential.'

'Not any more.'

'He was making a change to his will.'

'In favour of Alice?'

'That's right.'

'For her child rather than his own son?'

'It's more complicated. Suffice it to say, I asked Michael to think carefully about what he was doing before proceeding. Then he lost his temper. But I'm used to that.'

'Did you stand to benefit from his death?'

'Not enough to kill him. We're comfortably off in any case.'

'And happily married, it seems.'

'We have our ups and downs. But then, who doesn't, Inspector?'

Back in the car, Keating was not convinced. 'I don't like them at all,' he said to Sidney. 'Do you fancy calling in on the actress? That might cheer us up. She can give us some of her fairy dust.'

'She's an angel, not a fairy.'

'Perhaps, like Mae West, she's no angel at all. She certainly left the party at a convenient moment.'

Frank Ifield's Lovesick Blues was playing on the radio at Philly Cotton's lodgings. The actress was wearing a loose silken day gown in eau de nil that revealed far too much of her figure, but the effect was deliberate.

'Forgive me,' she said. 'I should have made more of an effort, but I assumed you wouldn't mind my state of attire. You must have seen everything in your time.'

'You knew I was coming?' Geordie asked.

'An Inspector Calls,' she announced, before explaining: 'J.B. Priestley. I was the daughter in the No 1 tour. It's a play in which everyone has to confront their past. There's a clue in that, don't you think? All murderers must have a past. That's why there's a motive.'

'You're very wise,' said Sidney.

'And you must be very pure. Like the snow. As I was. Before I drifted. Would you like tea? I've even got some crumpets.'

Sidney turned to Keating. 'Don't . . .'

'Did I say anything?'

'Would you like some crumpet, Vicar?'

'Did you get them in just so you could say that?'

'But how could I have known that you would be making a visit?'

She crossed the room into a little kitchen area. Geordie and Sidney had a look to see how Philly had made a little home-from-home in her lodgings. There was a vase of late chrysanthemums, photographs of actor friends, Christmas greetings and even a good luck card from Sir Michael Barton.

'How well did you know the deceased?' Keating asked when she returned.

'There was a time when I knew him intimately, but 'they are not long, the days of wine and roses'.' Sidney finished the quotation. 'Out of a misty dream, our path emerges for a while then closes.'

Inspector Keating got back to the point: 'Was he married at the time?'

'They're always married, Inspector.' Philly handed out the tea. 'That is the tragedy. But it's also a kind of freedom.'

'They never offer to leave their wives?'

'For an actress? No, they don't.'

'So, you've never married?'

'People have asked. But, each time, I've never been sure whether they really meant it or not. Then the moment passes. Perhaps men feel they have to ask out of politeness.'

Sidney hesitated before biting into his crumpet. He didn't want to miss the opportunity to question the actress by having his mouth full.

'Did Sir Michael?' he asked.

'He did not. But we parted friends.'

'Friendly enough to resume if you ever saw each other again.'

'We had a history — and so we also had the odd lapse, I don't mind confessing.'

'Did his wife know?'

'The first one did; not the second.'

'And did he give you money?'

'My, this is all getting rather personal.'

'Gifts, then, shall we say . . .'

'Not recently. I think he's been rather hard-up lately.'

'Did you mind that his generosity had come to an end?'

'Well, not enough to kill him, if that's what you're asking. And certainly not with an axe. Can you imagine? All that blood on my clothes? Besides, the crime scene sounds very unconvincing, don't you think?'

'What do you mean?'

The whodunnit who's who The cast: Sir Michael Barton, late lord of Grantchester Manor, who had a well- earned reputation as a ladies' man Eddie Barton, his disaffected son Lady Carol Barton, Sir Michael's flirtatious wife who is fond of a drink The Reverend Sidney Chambers, vicar of Grantchester and all-round good egg Simon Walsh, the Barton's estate manager and family lawyer Christine Walsh, the local vet, married to Simon and suffering from a broken arm Inspector Geordie Keating, a seen-it-all-before, battle-hardened detective who is Sidney's great friend Alice, a young, attractive maid at Grantchester Manor who is eight months pregnant, causing much gossip among the locals Philly Cotton, a famous actress and on-off old flame of Sir Michael's

'It may have looked like a crime of passion, but everyone knew about Michael's peccadilloes. So, I'd say that this is more likely to be about something else.'

'Such as?' Sidney asked.

'Money, of course. But if you'll excuse me, I'm expecting a special visitor and I want to make everything lovely. Come backstage after the show tomorrow, if you want to talk more. Unless you want to arrest me.'

'You're arresting enough as you are,' Keating replied. 'And that's as saucy as I'm going to get.'

By the time the two men got back to the police station they were informed that the murder weapon had been found.

'Where was it?' Keating asked the Duty Sergeant.

'In Santa's sack. At the Walshes.'

'Time for a few more questions then, Sidney. What do you think it is about Christmas that makes people want to kill each other?'

The two men drove back to the Walsh house. Sidney remembered seeing the couple out walking in the woods on the morning of the murder. They could easily have picked up the axe then, he thought, returned home and planned their crime.

Geordie decided to concentrate on the discovery of the axe and on the decision to change the will.

Sidney posited the theory that if Christine was faking her broken arm, she could have committed the murder herself; or she could have dressed up as Father Christmas in her husband's place (they were the same height) and given him both the alibi and the time to do the deed.

This was going to be a vital conversation. But what neither expected at the farm was an open front door, a weeping Christine and the sight of her husband thrown back in his chair. It looked as if he had blown his own brains out with a shotgun.

'I don't understand it,' she said. 'Why on earth would he do this?'

'These things are hard to take in,' said Sidney. 'Sit down. Let me get you a cup of tea.'

'It's not only the fact that he's done it at all,' Christine continued. 'It's why he's killed himself with Lady Barton's gun rather than his own.'

'Unless he didn't use it,' Keating said quietly as he walked round the body.

'You mean, someone else?'

'Exactly. But it would be unwise to draw too much attention to any suspicion at this stage.'

He turned to Sidney. 'We're clearly meant to think this is either suicide or the work of Lady Barton.'

'Or someone is framing her.'

'But who would want to do that? We need to think about this clearly on our own, undistracted by anything else.'

'Such as Christmas?'

'Indeed,' Keating replied, without realising what he was saying. 'Christmas is going to have to wait.'

The first episode of the new series of Grantchester is on January 10 at 9pm on ITV.