Arsenal are hopeful that incoming manager Mikel Arteta will be able to convince Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang to commit his future to the club, according to The Sun.

The striker has just 18 months left on his £200,000-a-week contract and wants to see how the club progresses this season before signing a new deal.

But officials believe the appointment of Arteta, who is on the brink of returning to the Emirates as boss on a three-and-a-half-year deal, could play a significant part in Aubameyang staying put.

Mikel Arteta, pictured on the touchline against Oxford, is set to become the new Arsenal boss

Arsenal are reportedly hopeful that he will get Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang to sign a new deal

The 30-year-old has attracted interest from Barcelona, Real Madrid and Inter Milan, and is keen to play in the Champions League next year.

However, the Gunners are confident that Arteta's arrival would calm the dressing room following a miserable campaign under Unai Emery, who was sacked late last month.

Things have not gone much better under interim boss Freddie Ljungberg, who has just one win from his five games in charge and is on the brink of being replaced.

It appears that Arteta will also need to convince Aubameyang's brother, Willy, of his credentials after he hit out at Arsenal for lining up the Spaniard, claiming he was no different to the man he will be taking over from.

Replying to a post from fans channel AFTV on Instagram, he wrote: 'Ljungberg Arteta is the same, no experience'.

Aubameyang's brother Willy (right) has criticised Arsenal for lining up Arteta as their new boss

Willy Aubameyang claimed Arteta lacks the experience for the role in a reply on Instagram

Sportsmail revealed on Wednesday that Manchester City had been left 'seething' over Arsenal's pursuit of Arteta, who almost got the job ahead of Emery in 2018.

The Gunners plan to finalise a compensation package, in the region of £2million, to poach City's assistant manager on Thursday.

However, City sources labelled Arsenal's attitude 'shambolic' and 'disrespectful', although they will not stand in the former Everton midfielder's way once compensation has been paid in full.