Kate Garraway missed her first day back on Good Morning Britain since I'm A Celebrity after forgetting to set her alarm.

The 52-year-old presenter was petrified she was going to be fired due to her blunder and called into the programme to explain herself to Ben Shephard and her replacement Ranvir Singh, who had to step in for her at the last minute.

Appearing on the show via a video call on Thursday morning, the visibly stressed star said: ‘Listen, I’m going to get fired! I can’t believe I’ve done this!’

Mortified! Kate Garraway missed her first day back on Good Morning Britain since I'm A Celebrity on Thursday after forgetting to set her alarm

'I've still got my hair blow dried, all my make-up on from last night. William's off school at the moment, he's not very well so I was lying next to him and I fell asleep.

'I've still got my shoes on. I fell asleep and next thing I know it's 20 minutes ago. I've never done this in 20 years.'

'This is my first show back, I don’t know what I’m going to do! ‘I can’t believe I slept from 6pm all the way until now.

'I’ve got six alarm clocks and didn’t set any of them. Oh God, I’m so sorry, please don’t fire me!’

Faux pas: The 52-year-old presenter was petrified she was going to be fired due to her blunder and called into the programme to explain herself

She lamented: ‘I've still got my shoes on. I fell asleep and next thing I know it's 20 minutes ago. I've never done this in 20 years'

Kate, who finished fourth in the Australian jungle, was seen wearing last night's clothes and had yesterday's make-up smeared over her face.

Ben first broke the news to viewers live on air by telling Ranvir it was a 'surprise' to see her next to him.

Ranvir chuckled: 'It's a bit of a surprise for me too. 3.26am, I got a text message this morning, just shortly after my alarm went off because I'm usually outside in the dark and the rain.

'"Hi love (this is from our lovely editor) we've got a problem - we can't raise Kate Garraway. If need be could you step in to do the show with Ben! We'll keep you posted."

Ranvir to the rescue: Ranvir Singh (right) was forced to step in at the last minute and join Ben Shephard (left) on Thursday's installment of GMB

Blunder: Kate, who finished fourth in the Australian jungle, was seen wearing last night's clothes and had yesterday's make-up smeared over her face

Rise and shine: Kate was seen heading to the Global Radio Studios later on in the day, with her hair perfectly blow-dried

Loving life: She seemed to be seeing the funny side of things as she stepped out in her Christmas jumper

Kate also took to her Instagram to explain herself further, admitting she didn't even manage to take her contact lenses out before falling asleep.

Alongside a dishevelled selfie, she wrote: 'Oh no - disaster - overslept on my 1st morning back at work on @gmb . Fell asleep last night fully made up with clothes on and contacts in - didn’t set alarm .

'Woke up looking like this !!!??!!! Can’t believe it - am going to get fired first morning back!

'And to think @adeleroberts & @romankemp we were talking about this in the jungle and I was proudly saying I had never overslept enough in 20 years to actually miss a show !!!! That’s karma !!!!'.

Amused: Ben also took to Twitter to mock his co-host for her mishap, asking viewers if anything similar had happened to them

Ben also took to Twitter to mock his co-host for her mishap, asking viewers if anything similar had happened to them.

Turning Kate's disaster into a conversation point for Thursday's edition of GMB, he said: 'So @kategarraway sent me this pic when she woke up 15 mins before @GMB starts!! She’s overslept (she’s changed!) in her clothes + make up from night before.

'Have u ever overslept or missed a big event, and what happened?? Thank goodness for @ranvir01 coming 2 the rescue'.

Luckily for Kate, ITV sent her a message to let her know her job was definitely safe.