For more than 70 years, I have been singing carols with growing enthusiasm. Why do I and millions of others love them so?

As we tune in to the radio, settle into our seats to sing them at school and church, bond over the mulled wine and mince pies afterwards or get swept away by their holy perfection when performed by choirs in beautiful settings, I'd like to pause to explore their mystery.

Is it seasonal jollity? Spirituality? Beautiful words and music? A good way of bringing families and communities together?

On Christmas Eve I shall watch on TV the centuries-old service of nine lessons and carols from King's College Cambridge. They reveal how human frailty is followed by rebirth and salvation, culminating in the greatest mystery of all: the 'Word made flesh'

Or do carols simply bring back our happiest childhood memories?

I can vividly remember my first childhood carol service, even though it took place in circumstances more of discomfort than joy.

I was a five-year-old patient in Dublin's Cappagh Hospital, which specialised in tuberculosis — then a killer disease far more feared than cancer is today.

As a high-risk TB victim infected in both lungs and legs, I was immobilised on a 'frame', an early version of an iron lung.

Small boys do not have the slightest idea that they might be seriously ill. So I prepared for the hospital carols with gusto.

Our nurses — all nuns in Catholic Ireland — rehearsed us for a programme that combined Christian hymns with Celtic ballads.

Coming back this year as the minister officiating the Old Bailey Carol Service felt like a personal parable of redemption — I was ordained as an Anglican deacon last year and as a priest this year

On the day of the service, several celebrities turned up, including the Mayor of Dublin, who was draped in gold chains and accompanied by glamorous actresses from the Gate Theatre.

John Betjeman, then a press secretary at the British Embassy, read one of his poems with eccentric charm.

The superstar of the evening, who had the nuns genuflecting, was John McCormack, the world-famous tenor who had a status in the 1940s equivalent to Plácido Domingo today.

He rounded off the evening with Molly Malone, a joyous non-carol with the refrain 'Cockles and mussels! Alive, alive oh!'.

I had not the vaguest idea what a cockle or mussel was, but sang the lines lustily. However, I was puzzled to see that several adult visitors, including my mother, were crying.

Years afterwards she told me: 'Darling, like most of the mums and dads at the service, we simply didn't know whether our small sons were going to come out of that TB ward 'Alive, alive oh!' '

I spent three years strapped down on my frame in Cappagh. To this day I empathise with carol services in bittersweet settings such as hospitals, prisons, care homes and street corners, where rough sleepers are serenaded by the tubas, trumpets and trombones of a Salvation Army band.

The variety of carol services in London today creates a rich tapestry of fun, festivity and faith.

My journey around 14 evenings of carolling began this year on the substance-abuse wing of HMP Brixton. It opened on a comic note of anti-wokeness when an attractive lady reader was greeted with wolf whistles.

She took it in her stride with a big smile.

Several addicts came up to give their testimonies about their progress on the recovery course organised by the Forward Trust rehabilitation charity.

'This is my 77th time in the nick,' said one 46-year-old prisoner, 'but now I know that I'll never touch cocaine again and [I'll] never have to come back here.'

In the seat next to me was a multi-tattooed robber who burst into sobs as we all sang O Come, All Ye Faithful.

Twenty years ago, I stood in the dock of Court No. 1 as the 'Prisoner at the Bar', entering a plea of guilty to charges of perjury which resulted in an 18-month jail sentence. I left the building in a prison van. Jonathan Aitken is pictured above inside Stamford Hill Prison two decades ago

I gave him an impulsive hug and asked: 'Have you just had a knock back?' (In prison slang, this means that, for example, bail has been refused or a prisoner has heard his wife has left him.)

'No, mate, I'm cryin' with happiness,' he replied. 'I've been doin' literacy classes and for the first time in me life, I can read the bleedin' words.'

After bonding with 'the poor and meek and lowly' of Brixton, I headed towards the top end of Establishment carol services.

First came St Michael's, Chester Square in Belgravia, where Lord and Lady Griffiths of Fforestfach were hosting their 14th 'Celebration of Advent'.

High Court Judges, Downing Street advisers, Goldman Sachs plutocrats, ambassadors, security service chiefs, musicians and media stars were led by former Archbishop of Canterbury George Carey through a liturgy of unusual readings and anthems.

It seemed as if 300 wise men and women had come to pay homage at this SW1 manger.

Then it was on to (Lord) Jeffrey and Mary Archer's annual Christmas party. Renowned for the celebrity guests who attend to enjoy shepherd's pie and Krug champagne, the bash should be more famous for the carols performed each year by 'the greatest singers in the world', as Jeffrey announced with his customary understatement.

These were the professional London choir Tenebrae, whose repertoire owes much to Mary Archer, a scholarly soprano who used to perform with the BBC Choral Society.

Jeffrey, who sings 'loudly but tunelessly', according to his better half, had his more populist tastes catered for by The Twelve Days Of Christmas and Ding Dong Merrily On High.

A deeply moving carol service for those down on their medical luck is the Oracle Cancer Trust's annual Glory of Christmas at St John's Smith Square.

This charity is the brainchild of the pioneering head and neck cancer specialist Peter Rhys-Evans.

His brilliant surgery at the Royal Marsden Hospital saved the life of my wife, Elizabeth, when she had a tumour in the extremely rare location of her lacrimal sac, or tear duct.

Head and neck cancer, mostly affecting the tongue, mouth, nose, voice box and thyroid gland, is the fastest-growing cancer in the UK because of the increase of HPV (human papillomavirus) among 30- to 40-year-olds.

Those who come to this carol service tend to dig deep: the readers are all head and neck tumour victims.

They courageously croak their way through their Bible passages or poems with new voice boxes whose strange sounds pluck at the heart-strings.

There was not a dry eye in the house after Sir Michael Morpurgo (best-selling author of War Horse, among many other children's books) told his story of surviving a tumour on his vocal cords.

Next stop on my carol-service travels was the Central Criminal Court, aka the Old Bailey.

Twenty years ago, I stood in the dock of Court No. 1 as the 'Prisoner at the Bar', entering a plea of guilty to charges of perjury which resulted in an 18-month jail sentence.

To feel this in the deepest places of the soul, it is good to participate in the pain and vulnerability of Christmas as well as in its beauty and glory. That is why Christmas Day, and the ten days until January 3, will find me on duty as a chaplain at HMP Pentonville (above) [File photo]

I left the building in a prison van. Coming back this year as the minister officiating the Old Bailey Carol Service felt like a personal parable of redemption — I was ordained as an Anglican deacon last year and as a priest this year.

The most unusual feature — before the service began with the predictable Once In Royal David's City — came from the darkened baronial staircase at the heart of the Central Criminal Court, from whence rang out the Azaan, the sacred Muslim call to prayer, which is proclaimed five times a day from the mosques and minarets of Islam.

The caller of the Azaan at the Old Bailey was my fellow chaplain at HMP Pentonville, Imam Tayib Ali, a good friend who occasionally invites me to preach in his mosque.

I was delighted to be able to return the favour and invite him to play a starring role at the Old Bailey.

Christmas is a good time for reaching across our spiritual comfort zones to other faiths and cultures — just as the Magi did in the Nativity.

A surprise to me as a novice clergyman has been the discovery that Ministers of the Church — at least in the run-up to Christmas — work far harder than Ministers of the Crown!

My 14 carol evenings were supplemented by preaching or celebrating regular Advent services in my home church of St Matthew's, Westminster.

On Christmas Eve I shall watch on TV the centuries-old service of nine lessons and carols from King's College Cambridge.

They reveal how human frailty is followed by rebirth and salvation, culminating in the greatest mystery of all: the 'Word made flesh'.

To feel this in the deepest places of the soul, it is good to participate in the pain and vulnerability of Christmas as well as in its beauty and glory.

That is why Christmas Day, and the ten days until January 3, will find me on duty as a chaplain at HMP Pentonville.

It's a difficult time on the prison wings. The season of peace and goodwill to all men can, for those behind bars, also be the season of depression, self-harm and suicide attempts.

Yet hope, faith and second chances are on the agenda, too. I remember these swings and roundabouts emotions from my own time as a prisoner 20 years ago at Christmas in 1999.

Carols evoke a rich mixture of feelings. Perhaps they are best expressed in the great lines from Hark! The Herald Angels Sing:

'Light and life to all he brings

'Risen with healing in his wings.'

A Happy Christmas of carol singing to you all.