She lives in the Southern California upscale community of Newport Beach with her new husband Ant Anstead.

And on Wednesday night, reality star Christina Anstead, formerly Christina El Moussa, was feted by her new home town as grand marshal of the 111th Annual Newport Beach Christmas Boat Parade.

The blonde 36-year-old, who found fame alongside her ex-husband Tarek El Moussa on HGTV's Flip or Flop, was all smiles as she was presented with her grand marshal proclamation by mayor Will O'Neal.

Spotlight: Christina Anstead, who found fame on HGTV's Flip or Flop, was the star attraction at a special festive event in Newport Beach in Southern California on Wednesday night

For her special night, Christina chose a black long-sleeve top with shimmery wrap.

She paired it with pale blue skinny jeans tucked into over-the-knee black boots.

She wore her long blonde hair loose and accessorized with large hoop earrings.

Special role: Christina, 36, was feted as grand marshal of the Newport Beach Christmas Boat Parade. She was all smiles as she was presented with her proclamation by mayor Will O'Neal

On trend: For her special night, Christina chose a black long-sleeve top with shimmery wrap. She paired it with pale blue skinny jeans tucked into over-the-knee black boots

On deck: Christina was joined at the event by husband Ant Anstead whom she wed on December 22 last year following her divorce from her Flip or Flop co-star Tarek El Moussa

During the parade, 100 decorated boats sailed a 14-mile course around Newport Beach Harbor.

Christina was joined at the event by husband Ant Anstead whom she wed on December 22 last year following her divorce from Tarek.

She and Ant, a British TV personality, welcomed a son Hudson on September 6.

The host of Christina On The Coast also shares two children with Tarek - daughter Taylor, nine, and son Brayden, four.

Pretty: Christina wore her long blonde hair loose and accessorized with large hoop earrings

Couple: Christina and Ant, a British TV personality, married a year ago and welcomed a son Hudson on September 6. She shares two children with Tarek - Taylor, nine, and Brayden, four



