Dua Lipa showed her bra and long legs Wednesday during a visit to The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon.

The 24-year-old English singer made her first of back-to-back appearances on the NBC talk show in a metallic mini dress with plunging neckline that flashed her matching bra and slip.

Dua completed her outfit with bronze stiletto open-toed collar heels.

Pink dress: Dua Lipa made her first of back-to-back appearances Wednesday on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon in a metallic mini dress with plunging neckline

She accessorized with necklaces and rings and had her short blonde hair down.

Dua reminisced with Jimmy, 45, over her first appearance in 2016 on the NBC talk show that also was her first US television performance.

She remembered hugging him afterward 'so hard' and Jimmy teased her saying, 'You basically jumped on me'.

The London native said the Grammy Award she won earlier this year for Best New Artist has made her work harder.

Warm welcome: The 24-year-old English singer received a warm welcome from the studio audience in New York City

'I definitely didn't expect anything like that with my first record,' admitted Dua, who also won a Grammy in February for Best Dance Recording for her song Electricity with the duo Silk City.

Jimmy brought up her Sunny Hill Festival in Kosovo where she lived from age 11 to 15.

Dua said she went to her first show at age 13 in Kosovo and saw New York City hip hop group Wu-Tang Clan perform.

New music: Dua was promoting her new single Don't Start Now and upcoming album Future Nostalgia

She explained that hip hop was popular in Kosovo and her second show was to see rapper 50 Cent.

'I'm a massive 50 Cent fan,' Dua said.

She launched the Sunny Hill Festival in 2018 to bring more artists to Kosovo and Miley Cyrus, 27, performed during the second festival in Pristina last August.

Kosovo festival: The London native who was born to Kosovo Albanian parents launched the Sunny Hill Festival in 2018 to bring more artists to Kosovo where she lived from age 11 to 15

Dua said Miley was the 'first international female to perform in Kosovo' and said her participation in the festival was her 'biggest dream come true'.

'She also killed. She just smashed it,' added Dua.

Dua was promoting her new single Don't Start Now and upcoming album Future Nostalgia.

She told Jimmy that she planned on performing an orchestral rendition of Don't Start Now as musical guest Thursday on his talk show.