The Washington Post has come under fire from the White House after a member of the newspaper's Congressional team tweeted a photo of correspondents celebrating 'Merry Impeachmas'.

The photo shared on Twitter by reporter Rachel Bade showed her and her colleagues drinking beer at dinner hours after the House of Representatives passed two articles of impeachment against President Donald Trump.

The caption read: 'Merry Impeachmas from the wapo team!' - along with tags for journalists Karoun Demirjian, Paul Kane, Seung Min Kim and Mike DeBonis.

White House Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham shared the tweet and wrote: 'Fair & balanced journalism everyone. Democracy dies over chips & guac.'

Washington Post reporter Rachel Bade tweeted a photo of her at dinner with four colleagues with the caption: 'Merry Impeachmas' after the House impeachment vote Wednesday night

White House Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham slammed the Post over the tweet (file photo)

Brad Parscale, Trump's 2020 campaign manager, also responded to the tweet, writing: 'Ladies & gentlemen, your fair and objective press corps in action! What a joke.'

He added: 'Media needs to stop acting like they are "impartial".'

Bade later removed the post after critics accused her of trying to taunt President Trump.

She explained her decision to take it down in another tweet, writing: 'I'm deleting a tweeting tonight that is being misinterpreted by some as an endorsement of some kind.

'To be absolutely clear, we at the Post are merely glad we are getting a break for the holidays after a long 3 months. I will retweet the group photo w/ a better caption !'

Bade later removed the post after critics accused her of trying to taunt President Trump

The Post has been a frequent target of Trump's wrath, as the president has repeatedly claimed that the paper governed by the interests of its owner, Amazon founder Jeff Bezos.

Trump has not directly responded to Bade's tweet as he was busy attacking other rivals following the House impeachment vote, which took place as he was holding a rally in Battle Creek, Michigan.

When the news came in, the president promptly unloaded on the Democrats Party and the impeachment process, which he labeled a 'perversion'.

'Through their depraved actions today "Crazy Nancy" Pelosi's House Democrats have branded themselves with an eternal mark of shame,' he said.

'Democrat lawmakers do not believe you have the right to select your own president.'