She's known for turning heads on the red carpet with skin-baring ensembles.

But Blanca Blanco made a statement using color on Wednesday as she appeared at the premiere of 1917 at the TCL Chinese Theater.

The 38-year-old actress shone in a marigold shift dress that featured shoulder pads and tassels on either shoulder.

Pretty: Blanca Blanco made a statement using color on Wednesday as she appeared at the premiere of 1917 at the TCL Chinese Theater

She added a pop of color to her look with a red bow turban hat that covered her brunette locks entirely from Turban SVS.

Blanco kept her makeup minimal save for a swipe of bronze eyeshadow and matching lipstick.

The Watsonville, Calif. native navigated the premiere in a pair of strappy heels.

Bold: The Watsonville, Calif. native navigated the premiere in a pair of strappy heels

Gorgeous: Blanco kept her makeup minimal save for a swipe of bronze eyeshadow and matching lipstick

1917 centers on 'two young British privates during the First World War [who] are given an impossible mission: deliver a message deep in enemy territory that will stop 1,600 men, and one of the soldier's brothers, from walking straight into a deadly trap,' according to an official synopsis.

The film stars Andrew Scott, Benedict Cumberbatch, Mark Strong, Richard Madden, and Dean-Charles Chapman.

Other notable faces in attendance included actor Dean-Charles Chapman, actor George MacKay, actor Andrew Scott, director Sam Mendes, and actress Bai Ling.

Handsome: Dean-Charles Chapman was dapper in a red turtleneck coupled with a matching velvet suit

Cleaned up well: George MacKay was classically handsome in a brown suit with a teal shirt beneath

Fresh: Andrew Scott looked sharp in a double-breasted suit in a plum color

Cast: Scott, Chapman and MacKay gathered for a group shot with their director Sam Mendes

Dean-Charles Chapman was dapper in a red turtleneck coupled with a matching velvet suit.

George MacKay was classically handsome in a brown suit with a teal shirt beneath.

Andrew Scott looked sharp in a double-breasted suit in a plum color.

Sam Mendes arrived alongside his wife Alison Balsom in a smart black suit.

Pulled-together: Sam Mendes arrived alongside his wife Alison Balsom in a smart black suit

Sweet: Bai Ling posed up a storm in a snakeskin mini dress and blue patterned heels, left, while Josephine Relli was festive in a red velvet off-the-shoulder dress, right

Coupled: Ted McGrath and Anna McGrath arrived and took a picture close at hand

Close: Caleb Alexander Smith and Lindsay McCormick made a glamorous statement on the red carpet