Anthony Joshua's offer to help heavyweight rival Tyson Fury prepare for Deontay Wilder took many by surprise.

It seems inevitable that one day they'll lock horns in what would surely be the biggest all-British fight in history, so to keep each other at arms length would have been understandable.

But Fury has welcomed the offer and if it goes ahead, a whole new dimension will be added to any future bout between them.

Anthony Joshua (left) has offered to help Tyson Fury prepare for Deontay Wilder

AJ sparred with Wladimir Klitschko three years before beating him at Wembley in 2017

While two world champions opting to spar is rare, there are numerous examples of the sport's greats who battled it out in the gym before meeting for real further down the line.

Back in 2014, AJ helped Wladimir Klitschko prepare for a title defence against Kubrat Pulev, three years before the former Olympic champion picked himself up off the canvas to knock out the Ukrainian legend at Wembley.

The pair had met at London 2012 where Klitschko extended an open invite for Joshua to come along and train with him in Austria.

He took up the offer and said at the time: 'He tagged me a few times, never buzzed me, that doesn't make me think I can walk through anyone's shots. It just made me think I got tagged four times and next time it will be two.

'I belong in that class but in a year or two, I realised what makes him different to anyone else.'

Joshua is a student of the game and will be familiar with all the old tales of heavyweight sparring, especially the golden era of the 1970s.

Muhammad Ali (left) used Larry Holmes as a sparring partner for years before fighting him

In the lead-up to the Rumble in the Jungle in 1974, Muhammad Ali worked Larry Holmes to help prepare him for the ferocity of George Foreman.

The pair became close and Holmes later reflected to GQ: 'We must have sparred a million rounds in that time, but the first time we got in the ring together he gave me a black eye. And I loved it!

'They tried to put ice on my eye to bring the swelling down, but I told them: “Nah, nah, nah. Muhammad Ali gave that to me and I want to show this one off!” People thought I was crazy because I was bragging about getting beaten up by Ali. And Ali liked me from the beginning and I stayed with him. I sparred with him in Africa before the "Rumble In The Jungle", in the Philippines before Ali’s third fight with Joe Frazier, the "Thrilla In Manila", all over. And he became one of my best friends.'

Ali then fought Holmes as a 38-year-old in his penultimate bout which turned out to be a step too far. There was some speculation that he was already showing early signs of Parkinson's disease and he lost every round on the scorecards.

Ali wasn't the only heavyweight icon to face his future opponents in the gym before going toe-to-toe further down the line.

Mike Tyson honed his early skills against both Lennox Lewis and Evander Holyfield.

Lennox Lewis (centre) sparred with Mike Tyson in preparation for the Los Angeles Olympics

Tyson went on to lose against Lewis when they crossed paths later in their careers

The American had no answer for Lewis in their clash at The Pyramid in Memphis

Lewis' trainer Arnie Beam knew his burgeoning young talent needed someone to come in and offer him a real challenge and the British heavyweight later recounted to Fox: 'Arnie tried to get in a good sparring partner but we couldn't find anyone until we heard about this guy in New York who also couldn't find sparring partners.

'He could throw a hard punch and was always just coming at you throwing punches, trying to knock you out with either hand.

Beam added: 'By the end of three days of sparring, he had Mike frustrated and under control.' Those sparring sessions helped prime Lewis for the Los Angeles Olympics where he won gold.

They were reunited in the ring almost two decades later and after an ill-tempered build-up featuring a press conference brawl, Lewis knocked Tyson out in the eighth round with a thudding right cross.

The sparring between Tyson and Holyfield came at a similar time to with Lewis in the mid 1980s.

Both men were vying for a spot in the US Olympic team and grew to become close friends. Holyfield told his version of events to Boxnation: 'Me and Tyson were both on the loser squad so we worked out second.

'So I said to Tyson "look man, we're No 2, we need to woop their behinds". Tyson knocked out his sparring partners all the time so had no sparring partners. I asked him if he wanted to spar. He said, "man you know, you're my friend, I don't want to hurt you.

'I was kind of offended by it because he was 17 and I was 21. I told him "you won't do nothing". So eventually we got in there and I had him in the corner and he couldn't get out and the coach stopped it because he was worried someone would get hurt.'

Holyfield and his compatriot were friends but things turned sour as heavyweight rivals

Tyson bit Holyfield's ear in their second fight and was immediately disqualified

Holyfield screamed in pain and the fallout was enormous after the shocking incident

Holyfield and Tyson went on to have two of the most memorable fights in heavyweight history 12 years later. It was Holyfield who won the first by stoppage in the 11th round and the rematch is part of boxing lore.

Tyson bit a chunk out of his opponent's ear in what he later argued was revenge for headbutts from the first fight and early in the second. He was disqualified in the third round and fined $3,000,000.

A future fight between Fury and Joshua would surely be a far more civilised affair but if they are to spar each other in the coming months, the narrative for that showdown, like many heavyweights before them, would become even richer.