A heartbroken mother fears her son will drop dead after he gave up trying to kick his ice addiction, telling her he would rather 'smoke crack until I die'.

The distraught Kalgoorlie mother, named with the pseudonym Helen, spoke with ABC News about the devastating impact methamphetamine has had on her teenage son.

She said he started to use meth when he was just 16 and has since been trapped in a viscous drug cycle.

A distraught mother has spoken about her teenage son's battle with meth addiction after he took up the drug as a 16-year-old and fell into a viscous cycle of drug abuse (stock image)

'His physical and mental health has declined significantly, he actually looks like a terminally ill cancer patient,' she said.

'Sometimes I think I'm going to get a phone call one day saying that he is dead.'

He attempted to kick the drug cold turkey but after suffering extreme migraines, suicidal thoughts and fatigue through withdrawals he turned back to the drug.

After Helen tried again to get him to give up drugs she said he told her he would prefer to 'smoke crack until he dies'.

Helen said she is calling for specialised youth rehabilitation and residential detox services to be rolled out across rural Western Australia.

In 2017 it was revealed Kalgoorlie was one of two 'meth hotspots' in Western Australia.

Wastewater analysis found meth use in Kalgoorlie and Bunbury was 50 per cent higher than metro areas such as Perth.

The most recent data on methamphetamine use in Australia was compiled by the Australian Government in 2016.

According to the data people in their 20s are the most likely to use illicit drugs and 43 per cent of people aged over 14 admitted to using illicit drugs at some point.

Meth use in Western Australia is higher than the national average, with 3.8 per cent of the population over the age of 14 using the drug compared to 2.1 per cent nationally.

Helen is from Kalgoorlie (pictured) which has been labelled Western Australia's 'meth capital' along with Bunbury

Western Australian premier Colin Barnett said in a meth strategy report the drug was having a heavy impact on the wider community.

'The emergence of meth in our community is putting enormous pressure on families, communities and our police and hospital emergency departments,' he said.

'Unlike other hard drugs we've previously had to deal with, meth is truly alarming.

'The physical effects this drug has on users includes psychosis and aggressive, violent behaviour.'

He said treatment centres were on aspect of the government's approach to tackling the meth problem.

'We have funded more treatment and rehabilitation services, a 24-hour help line, training for frontline workers, a specialist meth clinic, more drug support nurses in our emergency departments and Cabinet has approved the drafting of compulsory rehabilitation legislation,' he said.

The state government will commit more than $13 million over two years to expand withdrawal, residential rehabilitation, and community based treatment services.