A venomous snake hidden in a car wheel well has been removed in a delicate rescue before the owner made the horrifying discovery.

Two eagle-eyed Good Samaritans were walking past the car in Maroochydore on Queensland's Sunshine Coast on Monday night when they spotted a red-bellied black snake slithering into a tyre.

The women contacted Stu McKenzie from Sunshine Coast Snake Catchers, who came out and filmed the tricky rescue.

Stu McKenzie first attempt to capture the sneaky snake from the vehicle was unsuccessful

'The person who owns this car has no idea... we don't know where they are,' Mr McKenzie explains at the start of the video.

It took Mr Mr Kenzie several attempts to finally capture the venomous reptile curled up inside the hub cap of the tyre, which he had to rip off.

'Hallelujah,' he finally exclaims near the end of the video.

'That only took about 45 minutes. Nobody panic, we've got the red-bellied. Stunning little fella.'

'Hallelujah,' snake catcher Stu Mckenzie exclaimed after a tricky rescue on Monday night

He assured viewers the snake was not injured during the rescue and was later released back into bushland.

'We'll get him a long way away from here,' Mr McKenzie said.

The video has since attracted more than 26,000 views on Facebook.

'Thanks to Kym and Tiah who were walking past and saw the snake go into the car's tyre and called me straight away,' Mr McKenzie posted on Facebook.

'We never found out whose car it was but I am sure they are thankful there isn't a snake hiding within it.'

The red bellied black snake wasn't injured in the rescue and was later released into bushland

Two women raised the alarm after they spotted the venomous snake sneaking into the tyre

One person commented on the post: 'You take such good care in not aggregating or injuring the snakes when capturing.'

Red-bellied black snakes are found on Australia's east coast.

The venomous reptile isn't not an aggressive species and generally retreats from encounters with people but can attack if provoked.

It's been a busy few days for Mr McKenzie, where temperatures on the Sunshine Coast have soared above 35C.

He removed a dangerous Eastern brown snake from a woman's bathroom cabinet, along the two-foot long Yellow-Faced Whip snake at another home, hidden among the family's pile of shoes.

It took snake catcher Stuart McKenzie (pictured) 45 minutes to retrieve the sneaky reptile