Joanna and George Burgess have celebrated their new life in the UK with a sweet family snap.

The couple and their children moved to the UK in November after George signed a three-year deal with English team Wigan Warriors.

On Thursday, Joanna shared a photo to Instagram that showed the family posing together with Santa Claus.

Merry Christmas! Joanna and George Burgess have celebrated their new life in the UK with a sweet family photo. Both celebrated

George was seen with Boston, two, on his knee while his interior designer wife held Birdie, one.

Santa himself held their newest edition to the family, Blainey, who was completely wrapped in a warm jacket and pants.

The family left for their new life in northern England last month and posed for a picture outside Sydney Airport.

'Bye Sydney!' George and Joanna and their three children bid farewell to Australia in November, after the rugby league star signed a three-year deal with Wigan Warriors

'Bye Sydney,' Joanna captioned a photo of herself posing with George and their three young children, Boston, Birdie and Blainey.

The family was dropped off at the airport by George's brother, Luke, his mother, Julie, and several other relatives and friends.

George played his final NRL regular season game for the South Sydney Rabbitohs in July, after signing a three-year deal with English side Wigan Warriors.

Farewell: The family was dropped off at Sydney Airport by George's brother, Luke (second from left), his mother, Julie (second from right), and several other relatives and friends

At the time, Super League champions Wigan announced the 27-year-old England international front-rower would be joining them for the 2020 season.

Earlier this year, George served a nine-match ban after being found guilty of eye-gouging Wests Tigers player Robbie Farah.

'George is one of the world's best front-rowers,' Wigan head coach Adrian Lam said in a club statement.

'He is respected highly by his peers in the NRL and at international level and his experience, leadership and physicality will be of real benefit for us.'