Jeff Horn's promoter Dean Lonergan says Tim Tszyu will have to come to Brisbane if he wants a domestic light middleweight boxing showdown with his charge.

Former WBO welterweight champion Horn avenged his middleweight stoppage loss in August to Michael Zerarfa with a points win in a dramatic bloody battle in Brisbane on Wednesday.

After the bout Horn and his management said he would drop down a division, bringing him into the same category as undefeated world ranked Tszyu.

Roared on by a parochial crowd, Horn on Wednesday maintained his record of never having lost a professional fight in Brisbane.

"If you asked me before the fight I would have said 100 per cent we 'd go to Sydney to (to fight Tszyu," Lonergan told AAP.

"After that fight I'm going 'no.If you want to fight Jeff you're coming to Brisbane - this is our home and this is where we go best."

While a lucrative 2020 domestic superfight is on the cards, both camps are interested in possibly challenging Brazil's WBO junior middleweight champion Patrick Teixeira..

"Teixeira is a southpaw, I'd very much like that fight, that's a really good fight for Jeff," Horn's trainer Glenn Rushton told AAP.

"But Tim Tsyzu is quite a possibility as well. He's a big name in Australian boxing so that could be a viable opportunity as well."

Wednesday's fight was another in a growing catalogue of brutal bouts for 31-year-old-Horn, with Lonergan keen to keep his brave boxer out of any more ring wars.

"Jeff has been doing quite a lot of testing with MRI scans and with doctors and has come up cleared every time," Lonergan said.

Zerafa's camp was considering protesting the result.

They felt referee John Cauci should have stopped the bout in the ninth round to spare Horn further punishment and also thought his decision to briefly halt the contest to have the Queenslander's cut examined by the doctor was unwarranted intervention which influenced the outcome.

While they could protest to the Queensland branch of the Australian National Boxing Federation (ANBF) and to the WBO and WBA, both of whose regional titles were on the line, there appeared little chance of any appeal being upheld and the result amended to a no contest.

Under ANBF rules the result can only be changed through a mathematical error on the scorecards or the referee incorrectly interpreting the rules, neither of which appeared to happen.

Veteran NSW official Cauci was brought in as a neutral state referee, as Victorian Zerafa's camp was wary of having a Queensland official control the bout.