Grammy-award winner Marc Anthony's luxury yacht went up in flames before capsizing near the MacArthur Causeway in Miami on Wednesday night.

The City of Miami Fire Rescue revealed in a tweet that Anthony's 120-foot vessel, which was docked at the Island Gardens Marina, caught fire before emergency crews responded at 7.30pm

Photos show fire blazing from what appears to be the yacht's exterior and burning the upper deck as it steadily crept towards the roof.

Dark, billowing smoke can be seen at the scene, engulfing the immediate area and surrounding responding firefighters who were attempting to extinguish the flames.

The City of Miami Fire Rescue responded to a the Island Gardens Marina in Miami, Florida, after a yacht caught on fire around 7.30pm

The luxury yacht reportedly belongs to Grammy-award winner Marc Anthony, who was not on the vessel at the time of the fire

Miami Fire Rescue Cpt. Ignatius Carroll told WSVN that the scene was still hectic even after fire crews began spraying water at the inferno.

'It’s still a very active scene right now. Because of the amount of fire on that ship, we had take more of a defensive attack, so we have our fire boats with Miami-Dade County as well,' he said.

The fire was under control within two hours after more than 45 responders arrived. There are no reported injuries as of yet.

Anthony was not on-board when the fire broke out, but six or seven crew members who were on the vessel were able to evacuate safely.

Pictured: Emergency crews holding a fire hose as they battle to contain the unexpected fire on Anthony's 120-foot yacht

Photos show fire blazing from what appears to be the yacht's interior and dark, billowing smoke can also be seen at the scene as it engulfed the immediate area (pictured)

Ata Bayrakrtar, a family member of the Island Gardens Marina's owner, said the situation is sad for all parties involved.

Bayrakrtar said: 'It’s sad, dog. For us, as the marina and for the boat themselves. Firstly, it’s important for people’s lives, but obviously then for the boat.'

'Right now everything is under control,' he continued.

Anthony's yacht, named Andiamo, has since capsized onto its side in the water and has sustained enough damage to be a complete loss.

More video from Watson Isl.

where the 120-foot yacht said to be owned by Marc Anthony is on fire, looking like a total loss at the Island Gardens Marina. No injuries reported as of late Wednesday night. 45+ firefighters battling flames and smoke from boats and the dock. @wsvn pic.twitter.com/MGC00vYDzO — Sheldon Fox-7 News (@fox_sheldon) December 19, 2019

Reports say it took more than 45 firefighters to extinguish the flames in under two hours after they arrived to the scene

Miami Fire Rescue say that no one was injured in the yacht fire and the crew members on board at the time of the incident were evacuated

Pictured: Anthony's yacht capsized after it caught fire, but no other boats in the area were damaged during the ordeal

It's not clear what started the fire, but it is currently under investigation.

Throughout the ordeal, no other boats caught on fire and the marina avoided an out-of-control hazard that could damaged several pieces of property.

TMZ reports that the lavish yacht is valued at approximately $7million and held a spacious interior that was perfect for hosting friends.

The vessel featured five cabins that sleeps 12 people with amenities included inside the yacht.

It is reported that Anthony's yacht was worth $7million and held five cabins that could sleep 12 people

Pictured: an example of a yacht similar to Anthony's that contained a BBQ, satellite TV, WiFi, a Jacuzzi and docking stations for multiple jet skis

TMZ reports that the boat was on the market earlier this year, but it appears to still be owned by Anthony

This included a BBQ, satellite TV, WiFi, a Jacuzzi and docking stations for multiple jet skis.

Marc Anthony was previously seen posing with the yacht on social media and hosting hangouts with friends like DJ Khaled.

The yacht was reportedly on the market earlier this year, but it appears Anthony is still the owner of the boat.

Anthony has not publicly commented on the incident.