While most people go on holiday to relax, Tiffiny Hall proved there's no rest for the wicked.

In a feature for Who magazine on Monday, the 35-year-old celebrity fitness trainer claimed she never stops working out - even while on holiday.

And when she doesn't have access to a hotel gym, Tiff said she makes do with a heavy suitcase instead.

Scroll down for video

Resourceful: In a feature for Who magazine on Monday, Tiffiny Hall claimed she never stops working out - even while on holiday

'This workout ensures you'll stay strong, fit and energised on holiday, and doesn't require any fancy equipment or even a hotel gym,' she told Who.

Running fellow fitness fanatics through the circuit, Tiff suggested holding a packed suitcase above your head while lying on the floor.

Urging fans to keep their arms and legs straight, the first part of the circuit involves engaging the core while practising a swimming-like movement with your head and legs raised.

Getting a lift: Running fellow fitness fanatics through the circuit, Tiff suggested holding a packed suitcase above your head while lying on the floor

Tiff then moves the suitcase onto the floor, and leans against it in a 'push-up position' with hands on either side of the bag's frame, engaging in a running-like movement.

She then stands the suitcase upright, extending the handle to grasp the bag as she kneels with her knees hip-width apart.

'Slowly lower and extend your body by pushing the suitcase forward using your core for stability - don't let your torso touch the ground,' she instructed.

Devoted: Tiff then moves the suitcase onto the floor, and leans against it in a 'push-up position' with hands on either side of the bag's frame, engaging in a running-like movement

The fourth step sees Tiff resting a foot on top of her upright suitcase while executing a series of lunges.

'Lower yourself until your front thigh is almost horizontal to the floor, keeping your knee in line with your foot,' she explained.

A fifth steps involves holding the suitcase horizontally, while lunging forward and pulling the bag back towards your hips, squeezing your shoulder blades.

Can you handle this? She then stands the suitcase upright, extending the handle to grasp the bag as she kneels with her knees hip-width apart

For the final step of the circuit, Tiff recommends placing the suitcase flat on the ground, while lying on your back and resting your feet on top.

Lifting each leg into the air, lift your hips up too, keeping your arms flat on the ground alongside you, and chin tucked against your chest.

And it's not the first time Tiff has boasted about her suitcase workout, sharing video of herself working out with her luggage on Instagram back in July.

Let's get physical: It's not the first time Tiff has boasted about her suitcase workout, sharing video of herself working out with her luggage on Instagram back in July

'What's the best workout gear you can take with you on holiday? Your suitcase!' she captioned the intense video.

'The best part of this hotel workout is you'll add more resistance as you do more shopping.

'Do 4 rounds of my Suitcase Hack Hotel Workout and you'll have worked off those scrambled eggs on sourdough with a side of bacon and avo in no time. Who am I kidding? I totally had the pastry basket #hotelworkout'.