EUGENE, Ore. (AP) - Oregon suddenly looks bigger, and potentially even stronger.

The eighth-ranked Ducks made a significant addition to their lineup Wednesday night as 6-foot-11 NFaly Dante played his first college game and scored 11 points during an 81-48 win over Montana.

"He압 just a dominant big," said Oregon sophomore Will Richardson, who played against Dante in high school. "Any time he steps on the court, even if he압 not scoring a lot, he압 going to make his presence felt."

The much-anticipated debut of Oregon압 top freshman recruit probably wasn앖 needed against the Grizzlies (4-6), but the Ducks want Dante comfortable with his role before Pac-12 play begins in two weeks. Oregon (9-2) has two more nonconference games.

"I didn앖 know what to think," Ducks coach Dana Altman said. "He압 practiced OK other than his conditioning. ... I thought he could come out and give us a few minutes.

"You can see his natural talent and I think as he gets in shape and (learns) more of our sets," his contributions will increase.

Oregon's Anthony Mathis, left, and N'Faly Dante celebrate after the team's 81-48 win over Montana during an NCAA college basketball game in Eugene, Ore., Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019. (AP Photo/Chris Pietsch)

Francis Okoro, a 6-9 sophomore who had been Oregon압 tallest player, posted the second double-double of his career with 12 points and 17 rebounds, the latter a career high while he matched his career best for scoring. Richardson and Payton Pritchard led the Ducks with 14 points each, and Pritchard added seven assists.

Okoro and Dante were never on the court together Wednesday, but Altman envisions that possibility.

"It압 going to help Francis a lot," Richardson said. "They work well together.

"Now we았e got two physical big men. It압 going to make us a lot better."

Dante would have been a high school senior this year but the native of Mali reclassified over the summer to go to college. He wasn앖 cleared for eligibility in time to enroll for the fall term but when that ended last Friday, he officially became a student for winter term, though classes don앖 begin until Jan. 6.

Dante didn앖 play Saturday in Oregon압 road win at No. 5 Michigan because he hadn앖 practiced with the Ducks, but after a couple of days of workouts he was in uniform Wednesday.

He immediately made an impact.

The Ducks scored 11 consecutive points to break away from the last tie at 12-all. That spurt included the first two Oregon points for Dante, who entered the game with 7:50 left in the first half and promptly scored seven points in three minutes.

Dante converted a pair of lob passes for dunks, the second one when he was fouled and hit the free throw for a three-point play. He finished the first half with nine points, equaling Okoro압 total as the Ducks dominated inside. The two big men combined to go 8 of 9 from the field as the Ducks shot 52% to lead 37-24 at halftime.

Oregon gradually expanded the lead in the second half and ended up shooting 54% from the floor.

"I like what were doing," Altman said. "We았e just got to keep taking steps in the right direction."

Montana could never find its groove on offense, shooting 37% while committing 20 turnovers. Kendal Manuel led the Grizzlies with 15 points.

BIG PICTURE

Montana: The loss left the Grizzlies 0-3 against Pac-12 teams, 0-5 in road games and 1-22 all-time against teams ranked in The AP top 10.

Oregon: The Ducks have won their five home games, each by at least 12 points.

PRITCHARD UPDATE

The senior point guard became the 14th Oregon player to reach 1,500 career points. Pritchard made two 3-pointers to raise his total to 224, passing Terik Brown for fourth on that school list.

INSIDE DOMINANCE

Okoro압 17 rebounds were the most by a Ducks player since Chris Bouchard had 19 three years ago, also against Montana. That led to Oregon압 40-24 advantage in rebounds. The Ducks had a 12-0 advantage over Montana in second-chance points.

UP NEXT

Montana plays at Omaha on Saturday, the final game for the Grizzlies before opening their Big Sky schedule Dec. 28 at home against Northern Arizona.

Oregon hosts Texas Southern on Saturday. A year ago, Texas Southern upset the Ducks.

___

More AP college basketball: https://apnews.com/Collegebasketball and https://twitter.com/AP_Top 25

Oregon's N'Faly Dante, right, goes up for a shot over Montana's Mack Anderson during the first half of an NCAA college basketball game in Eugene, Ore., Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019. (AP Photo/Chris Pietsch)

Oregon's Francis Okoro, right, dunks next to Montana's Mack Anderson during the first half of an NCAA college basketball game in Eugene, Ore., Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019. (AP Photo/Chris Pietsch)

Oregon's Payton Pritchard, center, shoots between several Montana defenders during the second half of an NCAA college basketball game in Eugene, Ore., Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019. (AP Photo/Chris Pietsch)

Oregon's Will Richardson shoots over Montana's Sayeed Pridgett during the second half of an NCAA college basketball game in Eugene, Ore., Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019. (AP Photo/Chris Pietsch)

Oregon's Payton Pritchard, center, shoots between Montana's Mack Anderson, left, and Kendal Manuel during the first half of an NCAA college basketball game in Eugene, Ore., Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019. (AP Photo/Chris Pietsch)

Oregon's Chris Duarte, right, shoots over Montana's Kendal Manuel during the first half of n NCAA college basketball game in Eugene, Ore., Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019. (AP Photo/Chris Pietsch)