Despite longtime reports of a feud within the Irwin family, Bindi Irwin has largely remained tight-lipped.

But in an interview with New Idea magazine on Monday, the 21-year-old was asked outright about her family's rift in the wake of her father Steve Irwin's tragic death in 2006.

'I like to approach life with the philosophy of unconditional love. So if I can find that love and might in my own heart, then everything else will be,' Bindi told New Idea.

Speaking out: Despite longtime reports of a feud within the Irwin family, Bindi Irwin has until now maintained a dignified silence

Following Steve's death, his family, including father Bob Irwin and older sister Joy Muscillo have revealed they're no longer in contact with Bindi, her mother Terri Irwin, 55, and brother Robert Irwin, 16.

Bindi was asked about the rift while discussing her upcoming wedding to former professional wakeboarder, Chandler Powell, 23.

And while she maintains she doesn't hold any animosity towards her extended family, Bob, 80, told The Courier Mail in September he isn't expecting an invitation to his granddaughter's wedding.

Family feud: In an interview with New Idea magazine on Monday, the 21-year-old was asked outright about her family's rift in the wake of dad Steve Irwin's tragic passing. Pictured, (L-R) Terri, Robert, Bindi and Steve Irwin at Australia Zoo in April 2004

Getting married: Bindi was asked about the long-running feud while discussing her upcoming wedding to former professional wakeboarder, Chandler Powell

After hearing about her engagement in July, Bob sent Bindi a letter congratulating her, but admitted he was yet to hear anything back.

'Much the same as any other parent or grandparent, I would wish [Bindi and Chandler] all the best - which I do - and hope things go really, really well,' he told The Courier Mail.

But Bob - who founded Beerwah Reptile Park, now known as Australia Zoo - added he would happily attend Bindi's wedding if invited.

Silence: After hearing about her engagement in July, Steve's dad Bob Irwin sent Bindi a letter congratulating her, but admitted he was yet to hear anything back

Rift: In an interview with Daily Mail in September, Steve's sister Joy Muscillo said she left the family business in 2016 after managing Australia Zoo's food court. Pictured with husband Frank

The rift was allegedly prompted by a disagreement about how Australia Zoo should be managed following Steve's passing.

In an interview with Daily Mail in September, Steve's sister Joy said she left the family business in 2016 after managing Australia Zoo's food court.

'I keep away from all that. It's just very sad... family stuff,' she said of the family's rift, refusing to elaborate.