She portrayed Cassie Turner on Home and Away before moving to Los Angeles over a decade ago.

And on Thursday, Sharni Vinson revealed that the recent bush fires in New South Wales have forced her to make alternative plans as she prepares to return Down Under for the festive season.

Speaking to Daily Mail Australia, the 36-year-old Australian actress said: 'Sadly all the family is in Sydney, so I will be missing our traditional Christmas Day this year.'

Former Home and Away star Sharni Vinson (pictured) revealed that the recent NSW bush fires have affected her plans for Christmas

'All my plans have changed due to the fires and road closures,' she added.

Sharni, who grew up in Sydney's Cronulla, will instead ring in 2020 on the Sunshine Coast with her mum and two dogs, Mocha and Jagger.

She will be heading back to LA early in the New Year.

Speaking to Daily Mail Australia, the 36-year-old Australian actress said: 'Sadly all the family is in Sydney, so I will be missing our traditional Christmas Day this year'

Change of plans! Sharni (right) revealed she will instead head to the Sunshine Coast with her mum (left) and two dogs Mocha and Jagger

Sharni first rose to fame on Channel Seven's long-running drama Home and Away, appearing on the program between 2004 and 2008.

But before she found her passion for acting, Sharni had a brief stint in pop girl group Foxfire IV.

On Monday, the LA-based actress reunited with her former band mate Becca Sopher, as she appeared in her new music video Straight Fire.

Remember this? Sharni (right) first rose to fame on Channel Seven's long-running drama Home and Away, playing Cassie Turner, on the program between 2004 and 2008. (Pictured: left, Mark Furze)

Red hot: On Monday, the actress (pictured, center) went back to her pop roots after she appeared in her former Foxfire IV bandmate Becca Sopher's new music video

In the music video, the star parties in a mysterious dark room while surrounded by masked figures.

In August this year, she returned to Australia after living in the US to star on Dance Boss, alongside Dannii Minogue, Adam Garcia and Timomatic.

Channel Seven have yet to confirm whether the show is returning in 2020.