She's claimed that her movie Queen & Slim has not received any Golden Globe nominations because members of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association who hand out the awards wouldn't see it.

But on Wednesday night, Melina Matsoukas got the backing of actress and producer Reese Witherspoon.

Witherspoon, 43, hosted a special screening of the drama starring Daniel Kaluuya and Jodie Turner-Smith in Hollywood.

Power player: Reese Witherspoon hosted a special screening of the film Queen & Slim in Hollywood on Wednesday night with the movie's director Melina Matsoukas

For the occasion, Witherspoon went for a business look in a black blazer paired with a black blouse and trousers.

The Walk The Line Oscar winner added a pair of black shoes and sported black-framed spectacles.

Matsoukas, 38, was a contrast in dove gray, wearing a long jacket over a white hoodie and a skirt that was open at the front.

She had on white cowboy boots and ornate hoop earrings.

Stylish: Witherspoon, 43, went for a business look in a black blazer paired with a black blouse and trousers. She added a pair of black shoes and sported black-framed spectacles

Helmer: Matsoukas, 38, chose a dove gray jacket over a white hoodie and a dove gray skirt that was open at the front. She had on white cowboy boots and ornate hoop earrings

Celebrity support: Matsoukas, who won awards for directing music videos for Rihanna 's We Found Love and Beyonce 's Formation, made her feature directorial debut with Queen & Slim

Matsoukas, who has won awards for directing the music videos for Rihanna 's We Found Love and Beyonce 's Formation, made her feature directorial debut with Queen & Slim.

But when the drama wasn't included in the Golden Globe nominations announced last week, she went public with her feelings about the snub.

'We held three screenings for the HFPA and almost no members attended,' Matsoukas told Variety in an interview published Thursday.

'For me, it’s reflective of their voting body. It’s not reflective of the society in which we live in or the industry as it stands today,' she went on.

'They don’t value the stories that represent all of us, and those stories are so often disregarded and discredited, as are their filmmakers.'

In a statement, the HFPA disputed Matsoukas' allegations and confirmed that all the voting members had been sent screeners of Queen & Slim.

Team effort: Also at the screening were some of the film's producers - Pamela Abdy, Michelle Knudsen, and Brad Weston

Famous face: Grey's Anatomy star Ellen Pompeo, 50, showed up to support the movie, wearing a camel coat draped over her shoulders with a striped burgundy shirt and burgundy slacks

Queen & Slim stars Daniel Kaluuya and Jodie Turner-Smith as a young couple who go on the run after a traffic stop ends with the shooting of a racist cop.

Variety reports that the drama has grossed almost $30 million in North America.

However, according to the film's IMDb page, it has only been nominated for a handful of awards by four critics associations.