A Colorado radio host had his show cancelled after he wished for a 'nice school shooting' to break up the coverage of the impeachment hearings for President Donald Trump.

Chuck Bonniwell made the comment while appearing on a Tuesday recording of his show on KNUS 710-AM, called 'Chuck and Julie.'

'You know, you wish for a nice school shooting to interrupt [it],' Bonniwell said to his wife and co-host Julie Hayden, claiming that the impeachment process was 'never ending.'

Scroll down for video

Chuck Bonniwell made the comment while appearing on a Tuesday recording of his now-cancelled show on KNUS 710-AM, 'Chuck and Julie'

Colorado talk radio host Chuck Bonniwell of @710KNUS said he wished for "a nice school shooting" to interrupt coverage of President Trump's impeachment. #copolitics #9NEWS pic.twitter.com/cgrsIftwD7 — Kyle Clark (@KyleClark) December 18, 2019

Hayden immediately dismisses the comment, trying to place distance between that and the show.

'No, no. Don't even – don't even say that. No, don't even say that,' she tells Bonniwell. 'Don't call us. Chuck didn't say that.'

Bonniwell does add that he doesn't wish to for anyone to be hurt, according to a clip of the broadcast obtained by KUSA in Denver.

The clip was removed from show as of Wednesday.

'You know, you wish for a nice school shooting to interrupt [it],' Bonniwell said to his wife and co-host Julie Hayden, claiming that the impeachment process was 'never ending'

The network released a statement Wednesday afternoon condemning the comments and announcing that the show was ended 'immediately.'

'Given the history of school violence that has plagued our community, 710 KNUS confirms that an inappropriate comment was made on the Chuck & Julie show by co-host Chuck Bonniwell,' the station said in a tweet. 'A programming decision was made to end the program immediately.'

Colorado is no stranger to school and mass shootings, with the Columbine High School Shooting in 1999 resulting in the deaths of 12 students and a teacher.

710 KNUS Denver released a statement condemning the comments and announcing that the show was ended 'immediately'

Four other school shootings have impacted the state since Columbine, with the most recent happening at the STEM School Highlands Ranch in May.

John Castillo, a parent to the student killed in that shooting, shared that Bonniwell's comments were 'unbelievable.'

'Unbelievable that a radio host would suggest a school shooting to distract from the presidential impeachment,' Kendrick Castillo's father stated. 'The Chuck and Julie show on knus 710.'

John Castillo, a parent to the student killed in one of the Colorado school shootings, shared that Bonniwell's comments were 'unbelievable'