The Australian version of I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! may be returning to screens in January, but already fans are having their say on who they think will enter the jungle.

Channel 10 has teased viewers with a series of vague clues as to who will be appearing on the show in 2020 - and it seems no guess is off limits.

The Living Room's Miguel Maestre is the only name to have been confirmed so far, but the rest of the stars remain a mystery.

Confirmed: Chef Miguel Maestre (pictured) is the only confirmed campmate so far... so who else will be appearing on the Australian version of I'm A Celebrity ... Get Me Out Of Here!?

Here are all the guesses fans have come up with so far...

'The TV mega star'

This 'international party animal' had fans convinced it was The Masked Singer's Lindsay Lohan - but if rumours are anything to go by, the star is not set to take part.

Now, many are thinking it could be party girl Paris Hilton or even Geordie Shore's Charlotte Crosby.

'Paris Hilton. The Simple Life and a party animal. If the UK get Caitlyn Jenner Australia can get someone as big as Paris!' one fan wrote.

No show: The Masked Singer star Lindsay Lohan (pictured) was rumoured to be heading into the jungle - but apparently, the star will no longer be taking part. Paris Hilton (right) is also high up on the rumour list

'The leading lady'

Channel 10 released a clue which read: 'A familiar face to Australian households, this Order of Australia recipient knows how to put on a show.'

'She will be singing for her supper,' host Julia Morris added in the promo.

Naturally, fans were quick to guess former Neighbours actress Kylie Minogue, Kate Ceberano or Lisa McCune.

But others are convinced it could be Kath and Kim star Magda Szubanski, who was appointed an Officer of the order of Australia in January.

A familiar face: Magda Szubanski (pictured) was appointed an Officer of the order of Australia in January

'The Aussie comedian'

Channel 10 listed this clue as 'a controversial blonde who is no barbie'.

Some have guessed that former Quizmania host Nikki Osborne is entering the jungle, while others believe it could be hilarious Hollywood comic, Rebel Wilson.

Despite him not being blonde, another fan guessed: 'Just throwing it out there... Well not long after this ad in TV last night, Tim Minchin was advertised as being on the project. Could it be?'

Far-fetched? Some fans have taken to social media to guess it could be Hollywood beauty Rebel Wilson heading to the jungle in January

'The famous DJ'

The famous DJ, who has won a Logie and 'loves to make crowds laugh', has stumped some fans, but others think they've hit the nail on the head.

Fans have guessed the likes of Nova DJ and two time Logie-award winner Kate Ritchie as the clear choice, while others believe comedian and radio host Sam Pang could be taking part.

A fan wrote: 'My guess is Wil Anderson. Well known radio DJ and comedian. And his show, Gruen, has won a Logie. Maybe?'

Potential: Fans have guessed the likes of Nova DJ and two time Logie-award winner Kate Ritchie (pictured) as the clear choice

'The blonde bombshell'

Fans are convinced the 'blonde bombshell' with Instagram likes aplenty is none other than Love Island host Sophie Monk, after the clue reads: 'From a tropical paradise to jungle hell.'

Having just come back from Fiji to film the latest season, it's clear why some might think it to be Sophie - but other guesses have come in the form of jet-setting PR icon Roxy Jacenko, and former Bachelor babe, Alex Nation.

A dead cert! Fans are convinced the 'blonde bombshell' with Instagram likes aplenty is none other than Love Island host Sophie Monk, after the clue reads: 'From a tropical paradise to jungle hell'

She's certainly a bombshell! Other fans have guessed jet-setting PR icon Roxy Jacenko as a potential jungle campmate

'The footy legend'

Described as 'one of the biggest characters the game has seen,' fans have gone wild to see who could be behind the clue.

Collingwood player Dale 'Daisy' Thomas, Adam Goodes and Warwick Capper have all been guessed.

A few fans even wrote that it could be Nick 'Honey Badger' Cummins after host Julia Morris was heard saying 'honey iced tea' after the clue - despite him being a rugby player, not AFL.

Unconfirmed: Collingwood player Dale 'Daisy' Thomas (left) is believed to be the 'footy legend' teased, with Australian entertainer Rhonda Burchmore (right) the possible 'leading lady'

'The TV presenter'

Channel 10 gave away a huge clue for this TV star, saying: 'This radio and television hunk once famously lost his shirt, think you can guess who this is?'

Beau Ryan has been a huge guess for fans, famously stripping in 2018 after losing an NRL Footy Show bet.

The Project's Tommy Little was also guessed, after he modeled topless in January this year.

Other guesses include Tom Williams or Matty J.

Rumours: According to reports, Tommy Little (right) is likely to be heading into the South African jungle on January 5, while Beau Ryan (left) has also been guessed

'The pop culture guru'

The clue for this mystery man or woman have left fans stumped, with Channel 10 saying they 'spend a lot of time with their aunty'.

Fans have already guessed former host of panel show Good News Week Paul McDermott, and Dylan Lewis.

Comeback king? Fans have already surmised that former host of panel show Good News Week Paul McDermott is the pop culture guru

'The reality star'

The tease for this category was: 'going from one controversial experiment to another. Talk about putting the mental in experimental!'

Many fans guessed it was lovable Bachelorette runner-up Timm Hanly, while others again went for former Bachelor Nick ‘Honey Badger’ Cummins - who controversially ditched his final two and chose no one.

Others are guessing it could be Big Brother winner Tim Dormer, while Survivor star Luke Toki are also being placed on the table.

He could be a hit! Lovable Bachelorette runner-up Timm Hanly was guessed by multiple fans on Instagram

In a statement to Daily Mail Australia, Channel 10 said: 'We welcome speculation about the cast of I'm A Celeb, that’s all part of the fun.

'You'll have to tune in on Sunday 5 Jan to see the big names step into the South African jungle this season. Keep guessing!'

The highly anticipated series will makes its return to Channel Ten on January 5