A clever cook has invented a two-ingredient Nutella cake that's taking the internet by storm, and it only requires 30 minutes of spare time to make.

Andrea Soranidis, who is based in both the UK and Germany, runs a culinary blog called The Petite Cook which shared the 'magic' and 'rich' dessert.

'This cake comes together in less than 30 mins, it's totally fool-proof, and it also happens to be gluten-free,' Andrea wrote on the recipe.

All you'll need are five free-range medium to large sized eggs and 250 grams of Nutella.

A clever cook has invented a two-ingredient Nutella cake that's taking the internet by storm, and it only takes 30 minutes to make

A jar of Nutella and eggs is all you need

Andrea makes her own by whipping together hazelnuts, dark chocolate, organic brown sugar, olive oil and fresh milk in a food processor but you can get the same result from the store-bought variety.

To start with, preheat the oven to 175C so it's ready to bake as soon as you're finished mixing the ingredients.

Then add eggs into a stand mixer and whisk on a medium-to-high speed for about five minutes or until the eggs are pale and airy.

While that's mixing pour the Nutella into a large heatproof bowl and microwave it for 30 seconds.

Pour a third of the egg mixture into the bowl with the hazelnut spread and gently mix until they're well combined. Use a regular spoon for this and not the stand mixer.

Then repeat the process for another third of the eggs and then the final third.

The cake needs to spend at least 22 minutes in the oven to cook and remain gooey in the middle

Once finished grease a cake pan with oil and fold in some baking paper so it doesn't stick. Then pour in the cake mixture and bake for 20-25 minutes.

What you should have is a light and deeply rich cake that - when dusted with icing sugar - would be well received at any Christmas party.

'I like it slightly gooey in the center, so I usually bake my Nutella cake for 22 mins, then leave it to cool above the stove covered with a kitchen cloth. If you like it a little more firm just bake it for a further five minutes, she said.