Turia Pitt has been forced to cut back on her recovery treatment due to her pregnancy.

The 32-year-old suffered horrific burns to 65 per cent of her body when she was caught up in a grass fire in 2011 and is now required to undergo frequent surgeries to help her body heal.

Turia is currently pregnant with her second child and shares her two-year-old son, Havakai, with her fiancé Michael Hoskin.

Sacrifices: Inspirational burns survivor Turia Pitt (pictured) has revealed she was forced to cut back on her recovery treatment due to her pregnancy

Although she is incredibly excited to welcome her second child to the world she told Woman's Weekly she has been forced to make some sacrifices due to pregnancy.

'If I wasn't pregnant, I would have around three operations a year, and I could have more, but I want to balance getting better and having operations with having a normal life.'

The mother-of-one, who was burned while running a marathon in WA, has also refused to give up her active lifestyle.

Happy family: Turia is currently pregnant with her second child and shares her two-year-old son, Havakai (centre), with her fiancé Michael Hoskin (right)

'Say I was doing a surgery every month, I wouldn't be able to do an Ironman event and see friends and do family things like go to my nephew's birthday party.'

'Three [surgeries] a year is a good number because I'm making progress and I'm getting better, but I'm not missing out on anything,' she said

After suffering extensive damage to her body, limbs and face, each of her over 200 surgeries have worked to restore her body's functions and appearance.

No backing down: The mother-of-one, who was burned while running a marathon in WA, also refused to give up her active lifestyle and regularly competes in Ironman events

Her most recent surgery focused on smoothing the appearance of her skin and enlarging her nostrils to make them more functional.

Turia first announced her pregnancy back in August and is expecting to give birth to her second child in February.

On Monday, the inspirational burns survivor proudly displayed her growing baby bump when she took to Instagram to share a photo of herself on a beach wearing a gingham-patterned bikini.