Hobart Hurricanes dynamo D'Arcy Short has implored national selectors to consider him as a Twenty20 middle-order player and not solely an opener.

Short was overlooked for Australia in their recent T20 series against Sri Lanka and Pakistan, only coming into the squad for one match as a replacement for Glenn Maxwell.

The left-hander begins his Big Bash League campaign against the Sydney Sixers at Alice Springs on Friday knowing runs are the No.1 currency in his push for a spot at next year's World Cup.

Short has topped the BBL run scoring charts the past two seasons but faces a near-impossible task dislodging current Australia openers Dave Warner and skipper Aaron Finch.

Short told reporters he shouldn't be ruled out as a middle-order option.

"I think I've got the skills to do it," he said in Alice Springs.

"If I try and bat through games and finish them off towards the end, it will hold me in good stead.

"I'm here to open and that's where I'm most suited to (but) I believe in myself that I can bat down the order and do a job down there as well if I'm needed to."

Short has opened for Australia in 18 of his 20 T20 internationals but managed just ten runs in the other two games at No.3 and No.7.

He'll be in new territory for the Hurricanes without regular opening partner Matthew Wade, who is absent on Test duties.

Youngsters Caleb Jewell and Mac Wright are in a two-way race to replace Wade.

A scorching maximum of 42C is forecast at Traeger Park for the match beginning at 1.45pm (ACST).

"It's definitely nice to come back and enjoy the hot weather," Short, who grew up in Darwin, said.

"I've played here a couple of times before. You just have to keep up your hydration."

The Sixers opened their campaign with a convincing eight-wicket win over the Perth Scorchers and have called-up leg spinner Lloyd Pope at the expense of allrounder Jack Edwards.

South African import David Miller will make his first appearance for the Hurricanes, who topped the table last tournament but lost in the semifinals.