A friend of Heidi Broussard has revealed that the missing mother-of-two's relationship with her fiancé had been rocky in the past as the search for the mom and her three-week-old daughter Margot enters day seven.

The friend, who spoke to CrimeOnline and asked that her name be withheld, told the outlet that Broussard and her fiancé Shane Carey went through a difficult break-up earlier this year.

She said she was taken aback when Heidi informed her during a conversation back in May that she'd gotten back together with Carey.

'We didn't talk about Shane very often but the last conversation we had I was shocked to find that they were back together,' the friend said.

'She had told me that they broke up but never told me they got back together [until this summer].

'I always found that weird. Wouldn't she have told me out of excitement? I knew she was pregnant I just didn't know she was back with Shane.'

Broussard, 33, and three-week-old Margot Carey vanished on December 12, after the mother dropped off her son Silas at his Austin elementary school that morning.

It was Shane Carey who reported the pair missing at around 7.30 that night, roughly 12 hours after they were last seen at the school.

The FBI and Texas Rangers have now joined the search efforts for the pair. FBI agents were spotted scouring the home where Broussard lives on Tuesday.

Volunteer have expressed interest in sending out search parties to scour the neighborhood near Broussard's apartment, but it is unclear whether authorities have given them the green light to do so.

A friend of Heidi Broussard has revealed that the missing mother-of-two's relationship with her fiancé Shane Carey (pictured together) had been rocky in the past as the search for the mom and her three-week-old daughter Margot enters day seven

Broussard, 33, and three-week-old Margot Carey (pictured) vanished on the morning of December 12, when the mother dropped off her son Silas at his Austin elementary school

Carey, pictured, gave tearful TV interviews saying that he didn't believe Heidi would leave on her own accord. He denied any involvement in the disappearance of his daughter and fiancée

Broussard's friend insisted that the mother would have never left home willingly, especially without her six-year-old son Silas.

'I feel like everybody is focusing on her running away and knowing Heidi I doubt that,' she told CrimeOnline.

When they spoke in May, Broussard told the friend that she was considering moving out of Austin to a home in Kyle that Carey's father owns.

The friend said she was unaware that Broussard never actually moved and was still living in the same Austin apartment with Carey.

She said that Broussard had been planning to make the 40-minute trip from Kyle to Austin every day so that her six-year-old son Silas could attend a good school.

'She was willing to drive 40 minutes out of her way to have them in a better school,' she said. 'That's not a mother that leaves.'

The Austin Police Department's Cold Case Missing Persons' Unit reportedly confirmed that the friend had informed them of Broussard's plan to move to Kyle.

Broussard's parents made a tearful plea to find the pair in an interview the same day, saying there is no way their daughter would have left voluntarily.

Mom Tammy told KVUE: 'We miss all of them very much, and we want them home. So, anybody who has her, please let them go – just let them go – and it'll be alright.'

She added: 'Heidi wouldn't do this, there's no way. She loves her son Silas and she would never do this, and she would never take Margot down those stairs without her carrier and have her strapped in and her diaper bag strapped to her back.'

Broussard's friend insisted that the mother would have never left home willingly, especially without her six-year-old son Silas

The missing mom's parents David and Tammy Broussard (pictured) have made a tearful plea to find their daughter and granddaughter on Tuesday

The FBI has now joined the search for a Texas mother and her newborn baby, who disappeared six days ago. The missing woman’s parents are now speaking out: “Something happened. She would not just leave.” @SamBrockNBC has the story. pic.twitter.com/HDTTnkUCWD — TODAY (@TODAYshow) December 18, 2019

David and Tammy Broussard traveled from Lake Charles, Louisiana after news of their daughter and granddaughter's disappearance.

David said: 'We've just been hoping and praying that they find some clues to my daughter's disappearance. I've just been going out in the surrounding area and looking, hoping and just doing a little detective work.

'We're not giving up. We don't believe in anything else but Heidi coming home.'

Tammy added: 'We're just trying to do everything we can to let them know and let the public know that the authorities are doing their job, and we want to bring our babies home.'

Police, who have given few details about the investigation, said at a Tuesday press conference that they currently had no suspects in their disappearance.

Detective Brad Herries said investigators are currently working on the assumption that Broussard and her daughter have not been harmed. Herries said authorities are exploring 'every possibility' and at this point are assuming they are alive.

'It's possible that Heidi and Margot have left on their own accord,' Herries said. 'It's also possible that there may be something nefarious or foul play involved.'

He said police do not have a person of interest in the case.

Herries refused to confirm or deny whether there had been previous domestic callouts to the family home but did say past police contact is part of the investigation, along with social media posts.

Herries also refused to confirm if Broussard's fiance was a suspect.

It comes after Carey gave tearful TV interviews over the weekend saying that he didn't believe she would have left on her own accord.

In one interview with Fox7, Carey denied any involvement in the disappearance of his daughter and fiancee.

FBI agents canvas the apartment complex in Austin where missing mom Heidi Broussard lives. Heidi has been missing since December 12 when she was last seen dropping her son Silas, at school. Her daughter three-week-old daughter Margot is also missing

Investigators are trying to determine if Broussard left on her own or if the pair are victims of foul play. Detectives have been interviewing her family and friends and reviewing surveillance footage from the Austin apartment complex where Broussard lives

Police believe Broussard returned home after dropping her six-year-old son Silas off at school before vanishing.

Investigators are trying to determine if Broussard left on her own or if the pair are victims of foul play.

Detectives have been interviewing her family and friends and reviewing surveillance footage from the Austin apartment complex where Broussard lives.

Carey said he last saw Broussard when he left for work at around 6.40am on December 12.

Detective Brad Herries, pictured, said authorities are exploring 'every possibility' and at this point are assuming they are alive

Authorities said Broussard arrived at the school with Margot to drop off her son at around 7.30am. A surveillance image released by police showed the mother at the school wearing a purple shirt about 20 minutes later.

Carey said Heidi called him at about 8am to telling him she had bought some books for Silas at a school fair. He said he tried calling her again at around 1.40pm but her phone was turned off.

Carey arrived home from work at about 2pm and said Broussard and the baby were not there.

He said Broussard's car was unlocked and her purse was inside with her ID and bank cards still in it. Carey said her keys and cellphone were the only things missing.

Carey said he got a call from Silas' school soon after saying Broussard hadn't returned to pick up her son.

He said he went to pick up the boy and that Broussard still wasn't home when he returned. Police were notified several hours later.

Broussard is described as standing at 5-foot-3 inches tall, and weighing 150 pounds, with long dark hair with highlights. Margot was born on November 26, 2019, and weighs about 7 pounds, 7 ounces. She is roughly 22 inches long

Heidi's car is still parked outside the apartment she shares with Carey, pictured

Carey told Fox7 that when he first noticed Broussard was missing, he walked around the apartment complex 'going through dumpsters' to see if he could find her keys.

'I sat outside to see any suspicions, anything that was weird,' he said.

'The next morning I sat out here for hours asking everybody if they'd seen or heard screaming, anything that was off or suspicious. They're all saying no.'

Carey repeated his account in a phone interview with KVUE on Sunday during which he appeared unsettled and overwhelmed.

'Okay I'm gonna I'm gonna call you back or something, I don't know what to do man. You make me nervous, you know...I just want to be natural man,' he told the reporter.

'I just want to like... this is not... I don't know... get the word out there.'

He added: 'I don't know why anybody would ever harm or touch these two beautiful women together.'

Carey begged anyone with information to contact him or authorities and pleaded with the public to share social media posts about her disappearance.

'She would not do this by herself. She would not be doing this. This is definitely something that happened that was wrong,' he said.

'She is an amazing person. She has amazing support, friends behind her. She's so personable – one of the best people I've ever met, so kind, and she does anything for her kids – one of the best moms.'

Carey said that when he first noticed Broussard was missing, he walked around the apartment complex 'going through dumpsters' to see if he could find her keys. The couple are pictured

Broussard is described as standing at 5-foot-3 inches tall, and weighing 150 pounds, with long dark hair with highlights.

Margot was born on November 26, 2019, and weighs about 7 pounds, 7 ounces. She is roughly 22 inches long.

Anyone with information is asked to call police by dialing 911 in Austin, or directly at (512) 974-5017.