The record-breaking musical Chicago has made its 2019 premiere in Melbourne this week.

And on Thursday, Natalie Bassingthwaighte, 43, and Casey Donovan, 30, gave media a sneak peek of the show, performing the greatest hits on stage.

The singers, who have both landed lead roles in the much-loved musical, were joined by Jason Donovan who is playing Billy Flynn exclusively in Melbourne.

Razzle dazzle! Casey Donovan and Natalie Bassingthwaighte (pictured) graced the stage with Jason Donovan during Chicago The Musical's media call in Melbourne

Natalie is playing the role of Roxanne 'Roxie' Hart, who ends up in prison for shooting the men she wanted out of her life.

While performing on stage, she flaunted her petite figure in a short playsuit with a scalloped hemline and lace detailing.

Natalie was joined by former Australian Idol winner Casey, who plays Matron 'Mama' Morton.

Dressed to impress: Natalie, who plays the role of Roxanne 'Roxie' Hart, flaunted her petite figure in a short playsuit

Suits her! Casey, who was dressed in a tailored navy suit, showed off her vocal ability in her on stage performance

Casey, who was dressed in a tailored navy suit, showed off her vocal ability in her on stage performance.

The duo, who play the two murderesses, were also joined by Jason Donovan at the media call in Melbourne.

Jason, 51, looked sharp as he sang in a black tuxedo, a white buttoned shirt and a black bow tie.

Chicago The Musical will play at Melbourne's State Theatre until February, 23, with tickets available via the Arts Centre Melbourne website.

All about that jazz: Jason Donovan, who is playing Billy Flynn exclusively in Melbourne, looked sharp in a black tuxedo and bow tie

Cast: Chicago The Musical will play at Melbourne's State Theatre until February 23. Pictured left to right: Rodney Dobson, Casey Donovan, Alinta Chidzey, Natalie Bassingthwaighte and Jason Donovan

Chicago: A Musical Vaudeville first opened as a Broadway production on June 3, 1975 at the 46th Street Theatre in New York.

The original Australian production opened at Sydney Opera House's Drama Theatre in June 1981, three years after the first West End, London production of the musical opened at the Cambridge Theatre.

There was also a 2002 movie based on the musical, which starred Catherine Zeta-Jones, Richard Gere and Renée Zellweger.