Wayne Brady won the Golden Mask on Wednesday's finale of The Masked Singer as he finally revealed that he was the character known as Fox.

The runner-up Rottweiler turned out to be singer Chris Daughtry, 39, while the third-place Flamingo was singer Adrienne Bailon, 36.

Wayne, 47, shared what it meant to him earlier with his voice breaking.

The winner: Wayne Brady won the Golden Mask on Wednesday's finale of The Masked Singer and finally revealed that he was the singer known as Fox

'This is all I've done my whole life,' he told the audience. 'And I've been able to be blessed enough to make a lot of people happy. But I haven't always been blessed myself.'

'It's taken me all this time to find my joy again wearing a mask and having no preconceived notions from anyone about what I can do.'

The six-time Emmy Award-winning actor and TV talk show host was typically humble when he was announced as the winner.

'This has been the coolest, most amazing, most touching, most challenging, weirdest [experience].' he marveled. 'I'm gonna take this with me forever.'

Humble star: The six-time Emmy Award-winning actor and TV talk show host was typically humble when he was announced as the winner

'This show is amazing,' he added. 'Because of the mask, you lead talent-first. So there's no one to say, ''Wayne Brady… shut up, that's the funny guy''.'

For his final song, he did a cover of Otis Redding's Try A Little Tenderness that host Nick Cannon, 39, called 'one of the greatest musical performances in television history.'

He seduced the audience with his soulfulness, then broke out into a rap mid-song that had everyone screaming with delight.

Weird experience: Wayne said being on the Fox show was the 'coolest, most amazing, most touching, most challenging, weirdest' experience

'Mr. Fox, 30 years in the game, go ahead put some respect in my name,' Wayne sang. 'Speaking of names, you trying to guess me? Jamie, Tyrese, Wayne Brady, Wesley.'

'Y'all sleeping on the Fox for too long, so I put on a mask and I sang a song. Now I'm in the finals and I'm 'bout to blow, and if you don't know, now you know.'

He also invented a whole new freestyle when he sang the song without his mask.

Freestyle rap: The talk show host and Broadway star broke into a rap during his performance of Otis Redding's Try A Little Tenderness as Fox and added a freestyle rap for his encore

'I'm over the frickin' moon right now,' relayed judge Nicole Scherzinger, 41, after he won. 'This couldn't have gone to a better, more deserving human and talent superstar superhero.'

'You slayed everybody. Like, you was on other levels,' she added.

Jenny McCarthy, 47, agreed, saying: 'You just proved to the world that you are a true legend and an icon, and I cannot wait to buy your albums. This is what you should be doing.'

Slayed it: Nicole Scherzinger told Wayne that he 'slayed everybody'

High praise: Jenny McCarthy told Wayne that he was a 'legend' and an 'icon'

As the judges waited to hear the final vote, Robin Thicke, 42, and Nicole thought it might be Wayne, while Jenny and Ken Jeong, 50, felt sure it was actor Jamie Foxx.

Other guesses included actors Wesley Snipes, Tyrese Gibson and singer Leslie Odom, Jr.

The Fox's clue package mentioned going from 'Doogie to Doubtfire,' a reference to Wayne's work with Neil Patrick Harris and Robin Williams, and touched on superheroes, a nod to his upcoming role on The CW's Black Lightning, a superhero drama.

Split vote: Robin Thicke and Nicole guessed that Fox was Wayne, while Jenny and Ken Jeong thought he could be Jamie Foxx

He'd also mentioned working with the judges before as he'd starred in a version of Rent with Nicole. A quote about having 'a strange thing to my bark' referenced his childhood stutter.

Wayne also said the Fox persona fit him him 'like a glove.'

'We're both intelligent, crafty as hell, and underestimated,' he observed. 'Despite all I've done in the entertainment industry, I'm slept on as a vocalist.'

Right fit: Wayne said the Fox persona fit him 'like a glove' noting they were both 'intelligent, crafty as hell, and underestimated'

'That's why I'm here, to ring the frigging alarm,' he said.

Over the past weeks, the judges had loved Wayne's covers of Maroon 5's This Love, Chris Stapleton's Tennessee Whiskey, and Blame It, Jamie Foxx's song with T-Pain.

Ken called him 'maybe the most complete performer in the history of The Masked Singer.'

Masked panelists: Ken and his fellow panelists wore masks of their own for the season two finale on Fox

'You are as a vocalist, you are not to be slept on,' Nicole told him. 'You are a legend.'

Chris, who came in second as the Rottweiler, said he'd chosen to do the show because it looked fun, and he wanted to challenge himself.

'And my kids have no idea I'm doing this, so I'm so pumped for them to see this,' he added.

Second place: Rottweiler finished as runner-up on the show

For the finale, he did a rocking cover of Sia's Alive that had Jenny exclaiming, 'What a voice!'

Chris said he was grateful for the experience, noting that it had helped him get out of a creative rut and show everyone that he was capable of doing more than they thought.

'My big break happened when I was just a pup, and I never really got a say in defining who I was,' the former American Idol star reflected while still in costume.

Personal challenge: Chris Daughtry removed his Rottweiler mask after coming in second place

'I spent years trying to live up to everyone else's idea of who I should be. And though I've fought hard to forge my own path, it's been impossible to change the way people see me.'

The judges thought he might be singer Jason Mraz, actors Jared Leto, Daren Criss, or Dave Franco, or numerous boy-banders.

Where Chris was cool, the Flamingo was nearly at a loss for words when it came to describing how the show had affected her life.

Third place: Flaming finished in third place during the finale

'I never thought I'd be so emotional about this,' former Cheetah Girls singer Adrienne said after her final performance of John Fogerty's Proud Mary.

'I was told I would never amount to anything, and even though I've doubted myself, I'm determined, I'm hard-working, and I have truly had the time of my life.'

Adrienne chose the flamingo because 'it's fun and sassy, and we both live that cha-cha life.'

Getting emotional: Adrienne Bailon said after her final performance of John Fogerty's Proud Mary that she was unexpectedly emotional

Her vibe was energetic and joyous, but she admitted that she joined the show to 'overcome her insecurities,' because she had always hated the childlike sound of her voice.

Clues to her identity included a 'ZooTube channel' on beauty and fashion, a love of travel, ability to speak Spanish, and references to singing, dancing and acting in her career.

At the end, nearly everyone knew it was Adrienne, especially since her videos had a reference to cheetah luggage and Israel, for Adrienne's husband Israel Houghton.

Got it: Robin, Jenny and Nicole correctly guessed that Flamingo was Adrienne, while Ken thought she might be Jessica Simpson

Other guesses during the season included the actresses Tia Mowry, Ashley Tisdale, and Naya Rivera, and the singers Ally Brooke, Kandi Burruss, Fergie and Pink.

Afterward, Jenny urged her to keep singing and Adrienne said she'd caught 'a bit of the bug.'

'I'm like, ''Wait, I might think I sound terrible, but if they think I sound a'ight, maybe I sound a'ight'',' she considered.

Sweet sound: Adrienne performed again after taking off her Flamingo mask

Throughout the show, contestants described the high level of security that surrounded them.

Former Skeleton Paul Shaffer, 70, said that it was so tight it made the secret service look like amateurs, and his fellow contestants acknowledged they'd had to lie to their loved ones.

Former contestant Thingamajig, aka Indiana Pacers point guard Victor Oladipo, 27, met his crush Nicole and her fellow judge, NBA fan Ken Jeong, 50, for the first time.

Dance time: Jenny got up and danced while Flamingo belted out Proud Mary

'I am hardcore blushing,' Nicole said, as Thingamajig sang a love song to her. 'And his voice of Baby Jesus! Ken is crying.'

'We'll be in touch,' Victor told Nicole then, but he later reported that he thought she had liked him better with his mask on.

The Masked Singer returns in February for its third season on Fox.