Lisa Wilkinson has shared a touching tribute to two of her children as they graduated university on her 60th birthday.

The mother-of-three celebrated her birthday on Thursday and said that her children's simultaneous achievement was the 'best birthday present ever'.

The Project host uploaded two comparison photos on Instagram that showed just how much Billi and Louis had changed since they were toddlers.

'Best birthday present ever': Lisa Wilkinson has shared a touching tribute to two of her children, Billi & Louis, (pictured) as they graduated university together on her 60th birthday

She captioned the post: 'Some birthday presents simply don't come any better,' she said.

'Twenty years after that first photo was taken, these two no-longer-little munchkins have knocked their final uni exams completely out of the park on the same day.'

'Thanks for the best birthday present ever Billi & Louis. My heart is absolutely bursting,' she said.

All together: Lisa Wilkinson (centre) shares three children, Billi, Louis and Jake (bottom right) with her husband Peter FitzSimons (top right)

Earlier this year, Lisa and husband Peter FitzSimons' stunning marital home in Sydney's Mosman went up for sale, which gave fans an inside took into the home where the couple's children were raised.

According to The Mosman Daily, Lisa and Peter lived at the home from 1993-1998 and snapped it up for $875,000 at the time.

The pair reportedly sold the home 21 years ago for a cool $1.655 million, with the home now being up for sale with no public price tag.

Stunning Earlier this year Lisa and husband Peter FitzSimons' stunning first marital home in Sydney's Mosman went up for sale giving an inside took into the home where her children were raised

Plenty of room! The gorgeous federation home features five bedrooms, three bathroom and a two car garage, with sweeping views of Sydney Harbour

The gorgeous federation home features five bedrooms, three bathrooms and a two car garage, with sweeping views of Sydney Harbour.

It also has a stunning lap pool and leafy surrounds.

Inside are hardwood floors, stunning heritage-style windows and ornate ceilings for that extra charm.

There is a gorgeous grand entrance, with sandstone steps leading up to the front door.