Jennifer Hudson and Taylor Swift joined three of their Cats co-stars on Wednesday's Tonight Show to sing an unplugged cover of the Broadway musical's most famous song, Memory.

Naturally, the 38-year-old Oscar winner blew the group away belting a few bars of the 1981 show tune (based on a T.S. Eliot poem) with her powerful three-octave mezzo-soprano pipes.

After all, Jennifer is the one actually singing Memory as glamorous, CG-enhanced Grizabella in Tom Hooper's big-screen adaptation of Cats hitting US/UK theaters on Friday.

The Broadway musical's most famous song! Jennifer Hudson and Taylor Swift joined three of their Cats co-stars on Wednesday's Tonight Show to sing an unplugged cover of Memory

After host Jimmy Fallon awkwardly croaked out the first verse, 30-year-old Taylor performed the second part of the emotional track.

The 10-time Grammy-winning pop diva plays flirty, feral Bombalurina in the $95M-budget Universal Picture, which currently holds a dismal 18% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.

Last week, Swift scored a Golden Globe nomination for penning the Cats song Beautiful Ghosts with original composer Andrew Lloyd Webber.

Joining the talented twosome was their castmate Jason Derulo, who's famous for his R&B hits Wiggle, Talk Dirty, and Want to Want Me.

American Idol 3 alum: Naturally, the 38-year-old Oscar winner blew the group away belting a few bars of the 1981 show tune with her powerful three-octave mezzo-soprano pipes

Hitting US/UK theaters on Friday! After all, Jennifer is the one actually singing Memory as glamorous, CG-enhanced Grizabella in Tom Hooper's big-screen adaptation of Cats

Her turn: After host Jimmy Fallon awkwardly croaked out the first verse, 30-year-old Taylor performed the second part of the emotional track

18% rating on Rotten Tomatoes: The 10-time Grammy-winning pop diva plays flirty, feral Bombalurina in the $95M-budget Universal Picture

Congrats! Last week, Swift scored a Golden Globe nomination for penning the Cats song Beautiful Ghosts with original composer Andrew Lloyd Webber (L, pictured Monday)

Last month, the Florida-born 30-year-old - who plays the rebellious Rum Tum Tugger - told SiriusXM's Andy Cohen Live that he was '125% sure' his well-endowed manhood was 'digitally removed.'

The Late Late Show host James Corden dusted off his Tony-winning pipes to sing a few bars from Memory, which was accompanied only by 'alley instruments.'

The 41-year-old Englishman makes a cameo as the tuxedo-clad gluttonous scaredy cat, Bustopher Jones, in the fantastical feline flick.

Big voice: Joining the talented twosome was their castmate Jason Derulo, who's famous for his R&B hits Wiggle, Talk Dirty, and Want to Want Me

Big bulge: Last month, the Florida-born 30-year-old - who plays the rebellious Rum Tum Tugger - claimed he was '125% sure' his well-endowed manhood was 'digitally removed'

Thespian roots: The Late Late Show host James Corden dusted off his Tony-winning pipes to sing a few bars from Memory, which was accompanied only by 'alley instruments'

Audiences might be less familiar with newcomer Francesca Hayward, who also sang a few bars of Memory.

The British 27-year-old used her superior dance skills as principal ballerina at The Royal Ballet to better portray naive and shy white kitten, Victoria.

Elsewhere on the Tonight Show were reunited Mad About You stars Paul Reiser and Helen Hunt, who played married Manhattan couple Paul and Jamie Buchman.

Comic relief: The 41-year-old Englishman makes a cameo as the tuxedo-clad gluttonous scaredy cat, Bustopher Jones, in the fantastical feline flick

On the rise: Audiences might be less familiar with newcomer Francesca Hayward, who also sang a few bars of Memory

Flexible: The British 27-year-old used her superior dance skills as principal ballerina at The Royal Ballet to better portray naive and shy white kitten, Victoria

It's been 27 years since the 63-year-old Golden Globe nominee and the 56-year-old Oscar winner began starring in the NBC sitcom, which ran for seven seasons until 1999.

Both Paul and Helen later agreed via Twitter that their shared appearance on the NBC talk show was 'great fun.'

Reiser and Hunt conclude their empty nest roles as the documentary filmmaker and the PR specialist in the 12-episode limited revival, which started streaming Thursday on Spectrum Originals.

'We're on tonight!' Elsewhere on the Tonight Show were reunited Mad About You stars Paul Reiser (L) and Helen Hunt (M), who played married Manhattan couple Paul and Jamie Buchman

Throwback! It's been 27 years since the 63-year-old Golden Globe nominee (L) and the 56-year-old Oscar winner (2-L) began starring in the NBC sitcom, which ran for seven seasons until 1999

'Do you know how much fun it is to be with these two guys?' Both Paul and Helen later agreed via Twitter that their shared appearance on the NBC talk show was 'great fun'