Temperatures soared across Australia on Thursday amid raging bushfires and unusually hot summer conditions.

And battling the heatwave in Sydney, model Tully Smyth stripped down to her lingerie to stay cool.

'Too hot for clothes!' she wrote on Instagram under the cheeky post.

'Too hot for clothes!' Big Brother's Tully Smyth set pulses racing on Thursday as she flaunted her abs in lingerie during 39-degree heatwave in Sydney

Tully, who rose to fame on the 2013 season of Big Brother, posed in front of a mirror in a matching set of semi-sheer, floral-embossed underwear.

The star gave a seductive stare as she placed her fingers on her open lip.

Tully's washboard stomach and toned legs were on full display in the image, taken in what appeared to be a bedroom.

'They weren't kidding!' Tully had shared an update on the weather on her Instagram stories, which showed her Sydney location had hit 38.6 degrees

She had shared an update on the weather on her Instagram stories, which showed her Sydney location had hit 38.6 degrees.

Tully also wrote: 'They really weren't kidding about the smoke.'

The world weather map has revealed that Australia is currently the hottest place on earth as the country swelters through record high temperatures.

Hot summer ahead: Tully's washboard stomach and toned legs were on full display in the image

Meanwhile, Tully recently encouraged people to audition for the 2020 reboot of Big Brother, but said they should make sure they are doing it for the right reasons.

She said housemates should be: a) confidently themselves, b) fans of the show, and c) prepared for big changes in their lives.

She warned that people should not apply if they simply want to be famous, win the prize money or gain followers on Instagram.

Auditioning for Big Brother was honestly the best decision I ever made and being a part of the show was the most fun I've ever had,' she concluded.

Tully appeared on the penultimate season of Big Brother in 2013, before it was cancelled by Channel Nine the following year.