A winnowed field of Democratic presidential contenders takes the debate stage for a sixth and final time in 2019 tonight.

Thursday's televised contest will bring seven rivals to Los Angeles in heavily Democratic California, the biggest prize in the looming battle for delegates.

Joe Biden, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, Pete Buttigieg, Amy Klobuchar, Andrew Yang and Tom Steyer are the seven survivors in what was once the largest ever field.

Coming a day after a politically divided House impeached Donald Trump, the debate will underscore the paramount concern for Democratic voters: Who can beat Trump in November?

Front runners: Pete Buttigieg, Elizabeth Warren, Joe Biden and Bernie Sanders, pictured at a debate in Atlanta last month, will lock horns again in California this evening

Massachusetts senator Elizabeth Warren (pictured) speaks during a town hall campaign event in Keokuk, Iowa, on Monday

Vermont senator Bernie Sanders speaks at a town hall in Keokuk, Iowa, on the campaign trail earlier this week

Former Vice President Joe Biden holds a microphone at a public education forum in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on Saturday

With voters distracted by the holidays and the impeachment proceedings in Washington, the debate in Los Angeles could turn out to be the least watched so far.

Viewership has declined in each round though five debates, and even campaigns have grumbled that candidates would rather be on the ground in early voting states.

The lack of a clear front-runner reflects the uncertainty gripping many voters. Would Trump be more vulnerable to a challenge from the party's liberal wing or a candidate tethered to the centrist establishment? Should the pick be a man or a woman, or a person of color?

The Democratic field is also marked by wide differences in age, geography and wealth, and the party remains divided over issues including health care and the influence of big-dollar fundraising.

There will be a notable lack of diversity onstage compared to earlier debates. For the first time this cycle, the debate won't feature a black or Latino candidate.

The race in California has largely mirrored national trends, with Biden, Sanders and Warren clustered at the top of the field, followed by Pete Buttigieg, Klobuchar, Yang and Steyer.

South Bend mayor Pete Buttigieg speaks during a campaign stop at the Danceland Ballroom in Davenport, Iowa on Saturday

Andrew Yang speaks to voters at a rally in Iowa City on Saturday. He is one of seven Democratic hopefuls at the California debate on Thursday

Kamala Harris has dropped out since the last debate while Cory Booker and Tulsi Gabbard did not make the cut for tonight's event.

Conspicuously missing from the lineup at Loyola Marymount University on Thursday will be former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, a billionaire who is unable to qualify for the contests because he is not accepting campaign donations.

But even if he's not on the podium, Bloomberg has been felt in the state: He's running a deluge of TV advertising in California to introduce himself to voters who probably know little, if anything, about him.

Bloomberg's late entry into the contest last month highlighted the overriding issue in the contest, electability, a sign of the unease within the Democratic Party about its crop of candidates.

The eventual nominee will be tasked with splicing together the party's disparate factions - a job Hillary Clinton struggled with after defeating Sanders in a long and bitter primary fight in 2016.

In a replay of 2016, the shifting race for the Democratic nomination has showcased the rift between the party's liberal wing, represented in Sanders and Warren, and candidates parked in or near the political center, including Biden, Buttigieg and Bloomberg.

Businessman Tom Steyer speaks during a campaign event in Iowa City earlier this week

Amy Klobuchar speaks during a presidential candidate forum at the NAACP's annual convention in Detroit, Michigan

Biden adviser Symone Sanders said she was expecting another robust exchange on health care.

'This is an issue that is not going away and for good reason, because it is an issue that in 2018 Democrats ran on and won,' she said.

Jess O'Connell on Buttigieg's campaign said the candidate will 'be fully prepared to have an open and honest conversation about where there are contrast between us and the other candidates.

'This is a really important time to start to do that, she said Voters need time to understand the distinctions between these candidates.'

The unsettled race has seen surges at various points by Biden, Warren, Sanders and Buttigieg, though it's become defined by that cluster of shifting leaders, with others struggling for momentum.

Harris, once seen as among the top tier of candidates, shelved her campaign this month, citing a lack of money.

And Warren has become more aggressive, especially toward Buttigieg, as she tries to recover from shifting explanations of how she´d pay for 'Medicare for All' without raising taxes.