She's known for love of health and fitness and has one of the best figures around.

And on Thursday, Rachael Finch shocked fans when she revealed that she will be sticking to her strict diet over the festive season.

The 31-year-old model took to Instagram to say she will be enjoying a healthy 'green goddess smoothie' on Christmas Day.

'What type of life do you want to look back on and remember?' Rachael Finch revealed on Thursday that she will be sticking to her strict diet over the festive season, and will have a healthy 'green goddess smoothie' on Christmas Day

'Christmas, new year, birthday, whenever... I eat and drink the way I do every. single. day because of how it makes me feel when I get out of bed and then what I get to accomplish throughout the day,' Rachael's post began.

'I don't know about you but I want to unlock my greatest potential and live to my fullest.'

She finished: 'What type of life do you want to look back on and remember?'

Lean and green! Rachael revealed that her favourite green smoothie is made out of spinach, frozen banana, parsley, vanilla protein, nut butter and filtered water. On her Instagram story, she added cucumber to the recipe

Rachael revealed that her favourite green smoothie is made out of spinach, frozen banana, parsley, vanilla protein, nut butter and filtered water. On her Instagram story, she added cucumber to the recipe.

It comes after Rachael took her daughter Violet, six, to the movies on Saturday to watch Frozen 2, giving her homemade coconut milk ice creams in the cinema.

In a short clip, Rachael panned the camera in front of Violet who looked happy as she indulged in the chocolate-coated paddle pop.

Healthy! It comes after Rachael took her daughter Violet, six, (pictured) to the movies on Saturday to watch Frozen 2, giving her homemade coconut milk ice creams in the cinema

The health and wellness entrepreneur informed her fans in the caption: 'We packed an ice cream from home this time! One of Violet's favourites made from coconut milk, cocoa and cashew butter.'

Rachael then gave fans a close-up look at another treat: a homemade smoothie bowl.

Rachael - who only let Violet taste sugar at the age of three - allowed her girl to have a choc-top at the movies back in August.

Taking to Instagram Stories at the time, the TV presenter captioned a photo of the mother-daughter duo: 'As much as I don't like Violet consuming this type of food, I feel it's important that she has it as a treat from time to time.

'I want her to grow with a balanced attitude to food and not become obsessive about her food or her body.'