Tammy Hembrow has achieved global fame thanks in part to her shapely booty, amassing more than 10 million followers on Instagram.

And on Thursday, the 25-year-old gave fans yet another reason to click her page, sharing a string of racy exercise clips.

Taking to Instagram, the blonde bombshell was clad in a white crop and matching shorts that hugged her sensational figure.

Want a booty like Tammy? Hembrow, 25, (pictured) flaunted her famous derriere in a white crop and shorts while doing a series of simple butt-building exercises on Thursday

Tammy first showed off her midriff in the skimpy activewear, which appeared to be from her own Saski collection.

The Gold Coast-based beauty then did a turn to show her pert posterior in the exercise gear.

She proceeded to share a number of clips of herself working out in the gym, disclosing her simple booty-enhancing workout.

Booty! Tammy flaunted her famous asset in her bathroom while clad in white activewear

Tammy held what appeared to be a 25kg weight on her shoulders as she did dips from side-to-side with a resistance band around her legs.

The social media star showed off form in the clip, holding the bar steady as she moved about effortlessly on the carpeted gym floor.

She later did a number of exercises with the free weight, lifting the bar up and down as a dead-weight to work her famous glutes.

Feel the burn! Tammy showed off a number of squat-style exercises with a free weight, which appeared to be approximately 25 kilograms

Finally, the blonde beauty utilised the bar for yet another time, lunging from side-to-side while holding the weight steady on her shoulders.

It has been a big week for Tammy, who did the media rounds, including an appearance on the Channel Ten morning show, Studio Ten, on Tuesday.

On the program, Tammy addressed continued speculation she has had a Brazilian butt lift in order to get her shapely posterior.

Squats! Tammy (pictured) used a resistance band and free weight in order to number of dips and lunges during the clip

'I hate when people accuse me of doing that. I take such offence to it because I worked so hard and it makes me annoyed,' Tammy told the show's panel.

The panel, which included Kerri-Anne Kennerley and Angie Kent. went on to ask Tammy to describe how she maintains her enviable figure.

'I do a lot of heavy weights. You're not going to build any muscle if you are not doing leg weights," she said.

Secrets: 'I do a lot of heavy weights. You're not going to build any muscle if you are not doing leg weights," Tammy said her bountiful booty was all down to weights during an interview this week after denying she's had a Brazilian Butt Lift

"I see a lot of girls doing cardio and this and that, it is not going to build any muscle really.'

Studio Ten was Tammy's first appearance on the morning show.

She went on to tell Daily Mail Australia she has possible plans for a TV series next year.