While Steve Jacobs won't be returning to Today in 2020, his role as the show's resident weather presenter clearly left an impact.

Reflecting on his career with the Channel Nine breakfast TV program, the 52-year-old has revealed the moments that moved him during his time on the show.

One standout moment was a meeting with a young terminal cancer patient back in January 2017, who tragically passed away just hours after appearing on Today.

Scroll down for video

Moved: While Steve Jacobs won't be returning to Today in 2020, his role as the show's resident weather presenter clearly left an impact. Pictured meeting cancer patient Jordan Lorenzi and his family in 2017

The man, Jordan Lorenzi, was just 22 when he died in a Melbourne hospital after telling Stevie his dying wish was to marry his fiancée, Lenae Kaenear.

Upon hearing this, the generous TV host presented the couple with an envelope containing $10,000 and two diamond rings.

Sadly, Jordan passed before they were able to marry, with Stevie later delivering a eulogy from outside the hospital.

'I only got to meet this young man, who is extraordinary, for a short amount of time, but I was touched by his courage, his soul, and his pure love for his mum and his dad, and his fiancée,' he said after Jordan's passing

'I only got to meet this young man, who is extraordinary, for a short amount of time, but I was touched by his courage, his soul, and his pure love for his mum and his dad, and his fiancée,' he said, fighting back his emotions.

He added: 'Sometimes the smallest moments leave the biggest impression.'

Taking to Instagram on Thursday, just a day after it was announced he was leaving the program, Stevie reflected on another memorable - albeit happier - moment.

Fanboy: Sharing a photo of himself alongside Paul McCartney, Stevie said meeting the former Beatles star had been one of his 'most cherished moments on Today'

Sharing a photo of himself alongside Paul McCartney, Stevie said meeting the former Beatles star had been one of his 'most cherished moments on Today'.

'I want to say a sincere thank you to everyone for the incredible warm messages of support,' he continued.

'Today has been my home for almost 15 years and I love the program and my colleagues dearly.'

'Today has been my home for almost 15 years and I love the program and my colleagues dearly,' he wrote on Instagram

He explained he was leaving the show to spend more time with his two young daughters, Isabella, eight, and Francesca, six.

'Sadly I can't commit to the future travel requirements of the job and have to put my beautiful daughters first. They are my world, my life and my joy,' he wrote.

While he said he would 'miss' working on the program, there were certain elements of the job he was happy to leave behind.

Daddy's girls: He explained he was leaving the show to spend more time with his two young daughters, Isabella, eight, and Francesca, six

'I couldn't be more proud of my achievements or more grateful for the opportunities I've had with Nine. I will miss my morning family madly and wish the new team all the best for 2020 and beyond,' he continued.

'A special thanks to my weather crew who are like brothers to me. We have had some amazing adventures. Looking forward to having breakfast with my girls and doing school drop off.

'Not going to miss that alarm. Thanks for the love and thanks for the laughs. It’s been an incredible ride and I am a lucky man.'