Two of the world's most celebrated athletes crossed paths in Boca Raton, Florida Wednesday as boxing icon Mike Tyson taught his craft to tennis legend Serena Williams at Mouratoglou Preseason, a camp conducted by her coach Patrick Mouratoglou.

'I don’t want to get in the ring with this GOAT @serenawilliams,' Tyson, 53, wrote on his Instagram account, adding, 'Much love and respect.'

Mouratoglou added a clip of the exchange, with a tip for Serena: 'Hit that punching bag like you wanna hit the ball!

Face off: Two of the world's most celebrated athletes crossed paths in Boca Raton, Florida Wednesday as boxing icon Mike Tyson, 53, taught his craft to tennis legend Serena Williams, 38, at Mouratoglou Preseason, a camp conducted by her coach Patrick Mouratoglou

In the video, the 38-year-old tennis pro was clad in a black top with a maroon tennis skirt, white sneakers and a black visor, as Tyson gave her pugilistic pointers.

Serena, who shares two-year-old daughter Alexis Olympia Ohanian Jr. with husband Alexis Ohanian, 36, appeared focused as she delivered shots to a punching bag.

Tyson wore an off-white Adidas top with navy blue athletic pants and white trainers as he helped Serena with her form and steadied the punching bag while she threw shots at it.

He complimented Serena as having 'some serious power' in her jabs.

Ready for action: In the video, the 38-year-old tennis pro was clad in a black top with a maroon tennis skirt, white sneakers and a black visor, as Tyson gave her pugilistic pointers

In the zone: Serena appeared focused as she delivered shots to a punching bag

Others to take part in Mouratoglou Preseason, according to WTA Tennis, include tennis players Coco Gauff, Holger Rune and Christopher Eubanks; fitness influencer Shaun T and DJ Bob Sinclar.

The showcase drew a reaction from Hilary Swank, who won an Oscar playing boxer Maggie Fitzgerald in the 2004 film Million Dollar Baby.

'Wish I were there!!!!' Swank wrote on Mouratoglou, who replied, 'You were invited, just to say...'

Casual: Tyson wore an off-white Adidas top with navy blue athletic pants and white trainers as he helped Serena with her form

Coach: Tyson helped Serena with her form and steadied the punching bag while she threw shots at it

Put 'em up: Serena was ranked the No. 1 player in the world eight different times in a 15-year span from 2002-2017, once holding the spot for 186 consecutive weeks

What fun! The showcase drew a reaction from Hilary Swank, who won an Oscar playing boxer Maggie Fitzgerald in the 2004 film Million Dollar Baby

Both Serena and Tyson are among the all-time legends of their respective sports, as Serena was ranked the No. 1 player in the world eight different times in a 15-year span from 2002-2017, once holding the spot for 186 consecutive weeks.

In her career, Serena ranks behind only Steffi Graf and Martina Navratilova for weeks in the top spot with 319 total. Tyson is a former heavyweight champion with a career record of 50-6 (with 44 knockouts) and was involved with some of the sport's most notable bouts.

They included his June 27, 1988 knockout of Michael Spinks in New Jersey in a bout that decided boxing's lineal champion; his February 11, 1990 trouncing at the hands of 42-to-1 longshot Buster Douglas in Tokyo; and a June 28, 1997 disqualification against fellow legend Evander Holyfield in which he bit Holyfield's ear.