Nancy Pelosi silenced cheering Democrats with a warning wave of her hand on Wednesday after the House of Representative's historic vote to impeach President Donald Trump.

But she couldn't stop the infectious feeling of victory among Democrats as Squad member Rep. Rashida Tliab was seen grinning ear to ear after the vote.

The Speaker of the House, who has been a long-outspoken critic of the president, kept her poise at the podium of the House floor and hushed fellow Democrats as their cheered when the votes poured in to oust the president late Wednesday.

After she announced 'Article one is adopted' she pounded her gavel and a smattering of applause broke out on Capitol Hill - but Pelosi silenced the room with a death glare and swift wave of her arm.

Nancy Pelosi silenced cheering Democrats with a warning look and wave of her hand on the House floor on Wednesday evening

Despite reports that Democratic leaders told party members to 'keep it solemn', Michigan Rep. Rashida Tliab was all smiles after the historic vote to oust Donald Trump from office

Tlaib was seen smiling after the vote on the House floor to impeach Donald Trump for abuse of power and obstructing Congress

Pelosi described the day as a serious and solemn one before the hours of debate kicked off Wednesday afternoon.

She said it was 'tragic that the president's reckless actions make impeachment necessary.'

'Today, as speaker of the House, I solemnly and sadly open the debate on the impeachment of the president of the United States,' she said in her speech.

She and other Democratic leaders told their members not to cheer or applaud when the impeachment vote totals were announced, Axios reported.

'Don't cheer, keep it solemn,' a Democrat from a district that Trump won said was the message passed down from House leadership.

Some criticized the Speaker of going to far with the somber display as she wore a black dress and tried to keep a serious face.

Fellow democrats Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff were seen with serious faces throughout the Wednesday hearing and vote.

The House floor pictured above before the Wednesday vote began

Squad member Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez kept a serious face after the impeachment vote was announced

Pelosi and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler kept a serious front during a post vote press conference

House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff also kept a somber front during the post-vote press conference

After the vote in a press conference she said: 'The House has acted on a very sad day to protect the constitution of the United States.'

She noted the vote was 'appropriate and urgent.'

In Wednesday's historic move the House voted 230-197 to approve a first article of impeachment charging Trump with abuse of power with one 'present' vote. The vote for a second article charging Trump with obstruction of Congress was approved 229- 198.

This vote made Trump the third president in U.S. history to be impeached.

After the vote Pelosi said she's in no hurry to hand the U.S. Senate the baton for a trial.

Senators in the Republican-led upper chamber of Congress own the next chapter of the Donald Trump impeachment saga, a trial where Chief Justice John Roberts will preside. An unlikely two-thirds supermajority is required to convict the president and remove him from office.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, expects to helm hearings that exonerate Trump. But Pelosi, a California Democrat, will decide when he can begin. The process kicks off when impeachment 'managers,' duos chosen by both parties, present the Senate with the impeachment articles the House has passed.

Pelosi said Wednesday night that she won't be ready to let go of the process until McConnell demonstrates the trial will be 'fair'—and she's nowhere near convinced yet.

Impeachment managers are appointed via House resolutions; Thursday is the last day of the year when the House will be in session.