Celebrities have flooded social media with posts celebrating the news that Donald Trump has been impeached.

Lizzo, Cher, John Legend, and Bella Thorne were among those racing to share the news with their fans, with Jordyn Woods tweeting: 'What a time to be alive!'

Also cheering on the impeachment was Cole Sprouse, who called for a 'celebration', while Alyssa Milano struck a more moderate tone, writing: 'This is a terrible day in our country's history. But a great defense of our democracy'.

Trump found few celebrity supports, though Oscar winner Jon Voight did theatrically denounce Democrats as 'evil'.

Lizzo (pictured performing last week) was among celebrities celebrating the impeachment vote against Trump, tweeting: 'What a time to be alive!'

Singer John Legend (left) and actress Alyssa Milano (right) were also among liberal celebrities praising the vote, which will now go to the Senate for a trial

Bella Thorne (left) posted a video of herself reacting to the vote on her Instagram story, while Ireland Basinger also posted the news to her followers (right)

'I expected this moment but I expected to be more joyful. Maybe jump up & do a happy dance. Maybe. But I'm just sad and heartbroken,' Alyssa Milano tweeted

In God We Trust pic.twitter.com/xbMCTDhgp4 — Jon Voight (@jonvoight) December 19, 2019

'I expected this moment but I expected to be more joyful. Maybe jump up & do a happy dance. Maybe. But I'm just sad and heartbroken,' Alyssa Milano tweeted.

'What he's left behind can't be erased with this vote. The bigotry and xenophobia he's emboldened. The lies. It will take generations to recover.'

The House held two separate votes - one on each article of impeachment. Pelosi presided over the votes and largely kept her party in line. And she silenced a few Democratic lawmakers who cheered the outcome with a flick of her wrist. The speaker made it clear before the vote she did not want Democrats to be celebrating what she considered a grave constitutional matter.

The vote on the first article of impeachment - abuse of power - was 230 to 197. The vote on the second article - obstruction of Congress - was 229 to 198.

And while Milano was one of the few who expressed their worry, the bulk of celebs found themselves celebrating the news.

Singer John Legend, who has previously feuded with the the president, welcomed the news and called for 'this evil man' to be convicted in the Senate.

He tweeted: 'Thank you to the House of Representatives for doing your constitutional duty. Everyone please call your senators and tell them to remove this evil man from office.'

'He wanted to make history,' comedian DL Hughley chimed. 'HE DID!! 1st President EVER to be #IMPEACHED IN HIS 1st TERM!!'

The joke is not entirely accurate, because 17th President Andrew Johnson was impeached during his only term in 1868.

Many celebrities took to their social media to sound off on the historic news of President Trump's impeachment after the House of Representatives voted to impeach him

'He wanted to make history,' comedian DL Hugley chimed. 'HE DID!! 1st President EVER to be #IMPEACHED IN HIS 1st TERM!!'

The sentiment was shared by Cole Sprouse, who added: 'Time for a celebration'

'What a time to be alive,' tweeted Jordyn Woods

The sentiment was shared by Cole M. Sprouse, who added: 'Time for a celebration.'

'What a time to be alive,' tweeted Jordyn Woods, while Amber Tamblyn wrote: 'HAPPY HOLIDAYS, TWITTER.'

Director and Trump critic Rob Reiner tweeted: 'This President is not being Impeached because he's a liar or immoral or a misogynist or a white nationalist or incompetent or ignorant.

'He's being Impeached because he committed the High Crimes of Abuse of Power & Obstruction of Congress.'

Elizabeth Banks retweeted a link sharing that President Trump was the only President to graduate from Penn and also be impeached.

'HAPPY HOLIDAYS, TWITTER,' cosigned Amber Tamblyn

Elizabeth Banks retweeted a link sharing that President Trump was the only President to graduate from Penn and also be impeached

'Impeached,' Bette Midler tweeted on Wednesday evening

Padma Lakshmi and Jameela Jamil took the moment to share comical gifs expressing their reaction to the impeachment news

Trump did appear to have some celeb friends in his corner, with actor Jon Voight calling Democrats evil in a video on Wednesday night.

'The evil is trying to win. This is a battle for truths, and the left are afraid of the true truths that President Trump has brought forth,' he declared.

'If the impeachment proceeds, America will fall, for President Trump has built it back and the extreme left are destroying this nation's glory.

'This is evil intent to destroy a President who has America in his hands.'

Fellow actor Dean Cain also came to Trump's defense, saying: 'This partisan, political impeachment is an embarrassment.'

Meanwhile, Padma Lakshmi and Jameela Jamil took the moment to share comical gifs expressing their reaction to the impeachment news.

'When people ask why I keep calling out President Trump's lies, crimes & cruelty I say it's my duty as a US Citizen & the best way for this father to protect my daughters future,' Tom Arnold tweeted. 'Quinn Arnold was born four years ago today. Dad made this birthday extra special. #TrumpImpeachment.'

'We have never had a President impeached while out campaigning acting as if nothing is going on back on Capitol Hill,' Maria Shriver tweeted. 'It's fascinating. Now he will run as an impeached President for re-election. Historic. #ImpeachmentDay.'

Singer-songwriter Victoria Monet also welcomed Mr Trump's impeachment, tweeting: 'Getting closer to making this orangesickle disappear man.'

Tom Arnold shared that the impeachment news was a birthday present to his daughter

'We have never had a President impeached while out campaigning acting as if nothing is going on back on Capitol Hill,' Maria Shriver tweeted. 'It's fascinating. Now he will run as an impeached President for re-election. Historic. #ImpeachmentDay'

Several celebs expressed their confusion toward the next steps in the process, with rapper Meek Mill even asking who the next president would be

Several celebs expressed their confusion toward the next steps in the process, with rapper Meek Mill even asking who the next president would be.

Others took to their Instagram to share snaps of their facial reactions when seeing the news, including Bella Thorne.

Many celebrities made reference to Trump's sexual assault allegations and dealing with women.

'This is for all the victims of sexual assault... impeached,' tweeted Natasha Rothwell.

Both Cole Sprouse and Lisa Rinna posted on their Insta story when the impeachment news was announced

'This is for all the victims of sexual assault... impeached,' tweeted Natasha Rothwell

The sentiment was shared by John Cusack, who said: 'He's obsessed with women coming to get him. Pelosi living in his head'

The sentiment was shared by John Cusack, who said: 'He's obsessed with women coming to get him. Pelosi living in his head.'

Still, actors like Josh Gad focused on the importance of voting in the next election.

'Don't gloat. Vote,' he said. '2 much depends on this next election. if u care about having health care with pre-existing conditions, if u care about having a habitable planet, if you care about the rule of law, if you care about lower prescription drugs, if you care about gun violence, vote.'

Cher, in all her great wisdom, posted a cryptic message slamming republicans for trying to purge democrat votes.

Still, actors like Josh Gad focused on the importance of voting in the next election