She recently sent fans into a meltdown after she debuted a mystery man on her Instagram.

And on Tuesday, Shanina Shaik finally set the record straight about her rumoured new flame, after she was spotted leaving a restaurant in Woolloomooloo with a male friend.

Speaking exclusively to Daily Mail Australia on Thursday, Shanina confirmed that while she is in a new relationship, her companion is her long time friend, Navid.

Just friends! Victoria's Secret model Shanina Shaik stepped out for lunch with a male friend in Woolloomooloo, Sydney, on Tuesday

The 28-year-old beauty looked every inch the catwalk model dressed in a flowy $487 Dannijo tie dye slip dress during the lunch with her pal.

The brunette stunner showed off her natural complexion, opting for little to no makeup look for the occasion.

She completed her look in a $1003 Christian Dior Dway slides in embroidered cotton.

Rainbow bright! The 28-year-old beauty looked every inch the catwalk model dressed in a flowy $487 Dannijo tie dye slip dress during the lunch with her pal

Taking care of business on her way to the restaurant, Shanina responded to emails with one hand, while she gripped onto her coffee and new Fendi baguette mini bag, worth $4059, in the other.

Meanwhile, Shanina's male companion opted for a grey shirt, and striped trousers.

The sighting comes after she took to Instagram to share a cryptic photo of herself on a 'date', just five months after announcing her split from husband DJ Ruckus.

Taking care of business! Shanina responded to emails with one hand, while she gripped onto her coffee and new Fendi baguette mini bag, worth $4059, in the other.

Not him! Shanina finally set the record straight about her rumoured new flame. She confirmed that while she is in a new relationship, her companion is her long time friend, Navid

Chic shoes: She completed her look in a $1003 Christian Dior Dway slides in embroidered cotton

The sweet Instagram snap showed the model embracing a male friend while sitting on a yacht and watching the sunset in Sydney.

Leaving fans in the dark once again, Shanina chose not to tag the man and covered his face with a love heart icon.

The sighting comes after Shanina was pictured kissing another mystery hunk while they enjoyed a romantic moment on a yacht in Ibiza, Spain last month.

Who's that boy? The sighting comes after she took to Instagram to share a cryptic photo of herself on a 'date', just five months after announcing her split from husband DJ Ruckus

She uploaded a black and white photo of a man's hand tenderly clasping her fingers, and revealed her new romance had come as a 'surprise'.

She didn't tag her new partner, and referred to him simply as 'P', writing 'S [love heart emoji] P' at the end of her post.

Confessing she was still reeling from her breakup with her 36-year-old husband of just a year, Shanina admitted she never expected to find love again.

'You took me by surprise': It comes after Shanina hinted that she's moved on with a mystery man five months after her split from Ruckus

'I will admit this was the hardest year of my life. I was dealing with the biggest heartache,' she began.

'So many things I wish I could share with all of you, but I choose to keep my personal stories close to my heart and heal.

'After dealing with a huge loss in my life, I GAVE UP ON LOVE I didn't want it or believed that a true love could exist.'

She then addressed her new partner, and told him he had restored her faith in romance.