A man, who has transformed his girlfriend's bedroom with fairy lights and brick-style wallpaper, as a Christmas present for her, has been called a 'keeper'.

The girlfriend, Linzy Boyd, from Belfast, took to the Facebook DIY on a Budget group to reveal how her boyfriend transformed it in just 'four hours'.

In those four hours he put up brick-like wallpaper, set up a ladder style photo holder, and added in finishing touches like fairy lights and a rug.

While many said her bedroom looked lovely, others said how lucky she was for having such a 'brilliant' boyfriend and that he was a 'keeper'.

A man transformed his girlfriend's bedroom (left before) with fairy lights and pretty bedding (right after), in just four hours as a Christmas present to his girlfriend

The girlfriend, Linzy Boyd (pictured with her boyfriend) from Belfast, took to the Facebook DIY on a Budget group to reveal how her boyfriend transformed it in just 'four hours'

Taking to the group she posted the pictures and said: 'My Christmas present! Boyfriend bought everything and transformed my bedroom all by himself in the space of four hours!'

She went on to reveal, on the post which had over 3000 likes, that he spent just £12.99 a sheet, of which he used three, for the brick-style wallpaper which is pasted on to the wall behind her bed.

He also bought a white ladder-style photo holder for £22.99, which he propped up against the wall, and decorated this and the bed with fairy lights.

He then added a lantern for £25.99, a fluffy white rug, which cost him £39.99, next to her bed and also grey cushions. In total, without the cost of the cushion, it cost him just over £130 pounds.

She went on to reveal, on the post which had over 3000 likes, that he spent just £12.99 a sheet for the brick-style wallpaper which is pasted on to the wall behind her bed

While many said her bedroom looked lovely, others said how lucky she was for having such a 'brilliant' boyfriend and that he was a 'keeper'

Those on the group went on to say how great it looked. With one saying: 'Well done your bedroom is fabulous.'

Someone else added: 'Looks mint, lucky you for having a brilliant bf, not many about now.'

Others said how lucky she was to have him, with many saying: 'Definitely a keeper.'

He also bought a white ladder-style photo holder for £22.99, which he propped up against the wall, and decorated this and the bed with fairy lights

Another said: 'Amazing boyfriend you keep hold of him you lucky lady!....sooo quick question?....where do you find these men then?'

While one more joked: 'Does your boyfriend have a brother? That's the kind of effort I want in my life'.

Other said that she should marry him and one more cheekily said: 'Where did you get the boyfriend? lol'