Karl Stefanovic has revealed what fans can expect from Today in 2020 as he makes his triumphant return to the breakfast show after he was sensationally dumped.

In a new promo posted on 9Now, the experienced reporters said they're excited to to to bring 'big stories' and plenty of humour each day to viewers.

'We can't wait to tell you all the news, all the important stuff in the day, but send you off with a laugh,' Karl said.

'We can't wait... and send you off with a laugh': Karl Stefanovic has revealed what fans can expect from Today in 2020 ahead of his triumphant return to the hosting panel

Allison added: 'We just provide a bit of fun, but you know when the big stories break, we have got it covered.'

Earlier this month Channel Nine announced the new line-up for the revamped show- which has languished behind in the ratings.

Karl and Allison will be joined by Perth newsreader Tracy Vo, weatherman Tim Davies and former Sunday Night reporter Alex Cullen, who will present sport on the breakfast program.

New-look team: Karl and Allison will be joined by Perth newsreader Tracy Vo (L) and weatherman Tim Davies (R)

Switching networks: Former Channel 7 reporter Alex Cullen (pictured) completes the new look line-up as the sports presenter

Brooke Boney will continue her role as entertainment reporter when the new team debuts live on January 6, next year.

According to media experts, Karl will have a tough road ahead of him as he tried to narrow the TV ratings margin to their rivals Sunrise.

Media analyst Steve Allen recently told The Daily Telegraph: 'In the next year, if they can half that deficit between Today and Sunrise, that would be a fantastic outcome.'

He added: 'That's my thinking. They just need to see that huge gap narrow.'

Big job ahead: According to media experts, Karl will have a tough road ahead of him as he tried to narrow the TV ratings margin to their rivals at Sunrise

In order for his comeback to be considered a success, Mr Allen says, 'making any kind of substantial dent in the gap' is required of Karl.

It comes after media commentator Rob McKnight says all eyes will be on Nine come January 6, when the breakfast TV program launches a week earlier than usual.

'There are plenty who are still loyal to Karl and he will provide the biggest switch-on factor,' Rob told Daily Mail Australia last week.