A food critic has taken the hassle out of Christmas catering by sharing simple tricks to cut time in the kitchen.

Speaking on Nine's Good Food Christmas special, culinary correspondent Alice Zaslavsky revealed her favourite recipes and tips for easy party food, giving you more time with guests this festive season.

Avoid hours in front of the barbecue by quickly cooking seafood in boiling water instead, and freeze strawberries inside ice cubes to add zest to Christmas cocktails.

Never panic if your pavlova collapses - simply combine the broken meringue with fresh fruit and cream to create equally delicious Eton Mess.

Food critic Alice Zaslavsky revealed nifty tricks to cut time in the kitchen, including turning collapsed pavlova into separate portions of Eton Mess

FREEZE STRAWBERRIES INTO ICE CUBES

Freezing half strawberries and sprigs of mint inside ice cubes will up your drinks game this festive season.

Pop the cubes into a jugs of water just as guests arrive, allowing the sweet flavours to infuse over lunch.

The fruity cubes also make a great addition to cocktails and punch bowls.

Three delicious canapes using three simple ingredients WARM OLIVES, MACADAMIA NUTS AND CHILLI Line an oven tray with marinated olives, covering with a generous helping of macadamia nuts. Add a dash of chilli flakes and lashings of olive oil. Cook for eight to 10 minutes. Warm olives with toasted macadamia nuts is the perfect appetiser for Christmas MANGO, PROSCIUTTO AND LIME Scoop out the cheek of the mango, getting as close to the skin as possible. Slice long strips and roll inside slices of prosciutto. Drizzle with lime juice and serve in small dishes.

cured meat with fruit is always a festive crowd-pleaser BRIE, RASPBERRIES AND CHAMPAGNE Take a whole wheel of brie and gently saw a thin sliver from the top off using a length of string. Place raspberries on top, pouring champagne on top. Mash the raspberries into the cheese, drizzling more bubbles as you do so. Cheese, raspberries and bubbles compliment each other perfectly Source: Good Food Christmas via Nine

TURN MESSY PAVLOVA INTO ETON MESS

Pavlova is notoriously difficult to perfect, as meringue is prone to cracking and sinking when it cools too quickly.

But don't panic if your pavlova collapses - simply turn the broken meringue into portions of Eton Mess.

Line a wide glass with individual pieces, adding a selection of seasonal fresh fruit and a dollop of cream on top, and your guests will be none the wiser.

Freezing half strawberries and sprigs of mint inside ice cubes is the perfect way to up your drinks game this festive season

COOK PRAWNS WITH BOILING WATER

Christmas and seafood go hand in hand in Australia, but waiting for shrimps to brown on the barbecue can be a lengthy affair.

Ms Zaslavsky prefers to steam prawns in an clear oven dish with boiling hot water, adding slices of lemon and cloves of garlic to taste.

The prawns cook as the water cools, giving you plenty of time to chat as guests arrive.