Classic images of Australians on holiday reveal the heyday of motels - when colour TV was a novelty, small packets of cereal were exciting, and kids begged Mum and Dad for a swimming pool

The El Dorado Motel was the first motel in Queensland's Surfers Paradise where guests could drive up to their front door. Inspired by motels in Florida, it opened in 1954 and was demolished in 1988, making way for a 23-storey hotel complex. Photo: National Archives of Australia

The Oakleigh Motel in Melbourne's south-east was the city's first motel. Commissioned by former car salesman Cyril Lewis and designed by architect and builder James Miller, it was to be built in time for the 1956 Olympics, but it did not open until 1957. 'How very Australian,' Tim Ross writes in his latest book, MOTEL. The Oakleigh Motel was converted into townhouses in 2010. Photo: National Archives of Australia

The rooms at the back of the Oakleigh Motel. The design was influenced by the owner, Cyril Lewis, a former used car salesman who, while traveling in the United States, stayed at and inspected many motels. Lewis was one of the first Australians to embrace the motel as a by-product of the post-war boom in car ownership. Photo: National Archives of Australia

MOTEL, a new book by comedian and author Tim Ross, explores the Australian experience of motels and road trips. This poolside picture taken at an unnamed 1970s Northern Territory motel poses the question: ‘Why is the man talking to a woman in a bikini wearing a jumper and jeans?’ Motels once represented a stylish and sophisticated way to travel. Photo: National Archives of Australia

The Astor Motel at Woolloomooloo in Sydney's inner-city, with its coffin-shaped pool, was built about 1964. The prominent mosaic artwork is long gone and the motel is now an apartment block. Motels began to spring up in Australia in the late 1950s. Photo: National Archives of Australia

The Riviera Motel on Queensland's Gold Coast was built about 1963. 'A classic Gold Coast motel indicative of the tourism boom there in the 1960s,' Tim Ross writes in his book, MOTEL. Not everyone was a fan of the new form of architecture. Photo: National Archives of Australia

The restaurant in the Riverfront Motel in Hobart. 'In a country where travelers typically stayed in pubs with shared bathrooms, driving right up to the front door for a nightly sojourn in a room where your breakfast magically appeared through a hatch was an absolute revelation,' MOTEL author Tim Ross remembers. 'Family holidays form some of our most cherished memories...' Photo: National Archives of Australia

A room at the Riverfront motel in Hobart. 'My brother checked the cupboard under the bench for the biscuits while I discovered two empty glasses in the fridge,' Tim Ross writes of a childhood motel stay. 'After a quick bounce on the bed my other brother stood on a chair to turn on the small Pye TV that sat on a lone shelf bolted on to a white, painted concrete wal.' Photo: National Archives of Australia

The original reception area at the Riverfront Motel at Rosetta in Hobart, near the Museum of New and Old Art. Author Tim Ross has described the Riverfront as a classic 1950s motel which provided some of the first such accommodation in the city. Photo: National Archives of Australia

‘Fibro cement paradise under a rainbow of plastic paint’ is how architect Robin Boyd described the American-style motels of the time. His antidote was The Black Dolphin Motel in Merimbula, which he designed for progressive developer David Yencken in 1958. With restrained signage, peeled log columns and exposed bricks, Boyd described it as an “architectural tranquilizer” between Sydney and Melbourne. It still survives today, though dramatically changed. Photo: National Archives of Australia

Swimming pools and colour TVs were considered unique and special features of the Australian Motel experience. Here, at an unnamed Alice Springs motel in 1978, a weary traveller cools her heels after a long day on the road. Photo: National Archives of Australia