She's busy raising three children in addition to her thriving acting career.

But even Jennifer Garner deserves to treat herself.

The actress, 47, was spotted heading to the nail salon alongside her children Samuel, seven, and Seraphina, 10, in Brentwood on Wednesday.

Mommy and me! Jennifer Garner was spotted leaving the nail salon with her children Seraphina and Samuel in Brentwood on Wednesday

Inside the salon, Jennifer was surrounded by several beauticians fastidiously cleaning up her nails.

The actress was able to take a breather as she kicked back in her chair while clad in jeans and a black top.

Once Jennifer's nails were all tidied up, the actress left the salon wearing flip flops.

Flashing a smile as her youngest child trailed her, Jennifer looked as happy as a clam spending time with her little ones.

Kicking back! The actress was able to enjoy a well-deserved break from her hectic schedule

All hands on deck! The beauticians fastidiously polished Garner's nails

Follow the leader! Seraphina was steps ahead of her mother after the salon session

It looks like Jennifer's eldest daughter Violet, 14, wasn't able to make the salon date, however.

Jennifer shares her three children with her ex-husband Ben Affleck, who she was married to for 10 years before announcing their split shortly after their anniversary in 2015.

Their divorce was finalized last year.

Happy as a clam! The Alias actress flashed a wide smile as she enjoyed some quality time with her growing youngsters

Step at a time: Garner wore flip flops as her polish continued to dry

Looking good Jennifer! The star kept it casual in jeans and a long-sleeve black top

The exes have remained devoted to co-parenting their youngsters together and have remained on good terms since officially splitting.

Jennifer was even at his side amid his battle with alcohol addiction last year, staging an intervention at his house and driving him to rehab.

And Ben has been endlessly grateful for her support, with an insider recently telling Us Weekly: 'Ben has the utmost respect for Jen and how she's supported him through his addiction.'

Jennifer's been patient with her ex for the sake of their three children.

'Jen puts up with a lot and does everything she can to keep it together — she wants Ben to be in the kids' lives. That means dealing with things she isn't happy about.'

Family first: The star held her children's hands while strolling down the sidewalk together