Karl Stefanovic will make his triumphant return to Nine's Today show alongside new co-host to Allison Langdon next year.

And media commentator Rob McKnight says all eyes will be on Nine come January 6, when the breakfast TV program launches a week earlier than usual.

'There are plenty who are still loyal to Karl and he will provide the biggest switch-on factor,' Rob told Daily Mail Australia on Thursday.

'Karl will provide the biggest switch-on factor!' According to industry insiders Karl Stefanovic (right) will 'need to do more to hold viewers' in 2020 as Sunrise plans to 'put pressure on Today' amid ongoing ratings battle (Pictured with new co-host Allison Langdon)

Today's January launch date has sparked rumors the stars of Sunrise will return early from their holidays to go head-to-head during Karl's anticipated return.

Rob, the former executive producer of Studio 10 and editor of industry website TV Blackbox, said: 'Sunrise hasn’t maintained its number one position by being complacent. They will throw everything at Today in order to hold their strong lead, including bringing their main presenting team back early.'

However, while Rob said viewers will no doubt tune in for Karl for the 'curiosity factor', he said 'the show will need to do more to hold them'.

'There are plenty who are still loyal to Karl': Rob Knight, the former executive producer of Studio 10 and editor of industry website TV Blackbox, said Karl will attract viewers easily, but may struggle keeping them

'They will throw everything at Today in order to hold their strong lead!' Rob said Sunrise had an impressive lead due to hard work, and it's likely they will bring their main presenting team back early from the break to compete with Today's early launch (Pictured: Sunrise hosts Samantha Armytage and David 'Kochie' Koch)

'The viewers will run a mile if the show is boring compared to Sunrise. And considering the show is going to be very newsy, Karl’s biggest fans could lose interest,' Rob speculated.

He added: 'Nine had to make changes to the Today show after a disastrous year, but personally I don’t think they’ve made the right changes to become number one.'

As for Seven's Sunrise team, Rob suggested the show's executive producer Michael Pell would have been preparing to rival Today's revamped panel for months.

'He will hold steady and continue to evolve the show. He will not give his competitors the chance to breathe and he will place as much pressure on his rivals from the get-go,' Rob claimed.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted Channel Seven and Channel Nine for comment.

'He will not give his competitors the chance to breathe': As for Seven's Sunrise team, Rob suggested the show's executive producer Michael Pell would have been preparing to rival Today's revamped panel for months

'I thought my time was up': Earlier this month, Karl shared his delight at returning to the Today show, admitting he didn't think he'd be able to go back after his shock axing last year

Earlier this month, Karl shared his delight at returning to the Today show, admitting he didn't think he'd be able to go back after his shock axing last year.

'I thought my time was up,' he said in a statement released by Nine.

Both Karl and his new co-host Allison assured viewers that the revamped show 'won't be boring', after the program's ratings plunged in 2019 while being hosted by all-female team, Deborah Knight and Georgie Gardner.

After dismal ratings throughout the year under the replacement hosts, Channel Nine executives swallowed their pride and turned back to the man who they ousted at the end of 2018.

Ouch: Karl was dumped as the Today show co-host in December 2018, while on his honeymoon with new wife Jasmine Yarbrough (right)

Karl was dumped as the Today show co-host in December 2018, while on his honeymoon with new wife Jasmine Yarbrough.

At the time, his personal life was making headlines after his high-profile split with ex-wife Cassandra Thorburn, who he shares three children with.

He's now set to make his return to the Today show on January 6 and will host the program alongside Allison Langdon.

The new-look Today will feature the pair alongside entertainment presenter Brooke Boney, newsreader Tracy Vo, weatherman Tim Davies and sports reporter Alex Cullen.