A former JB Hi-Fi employee has revealed why you should never pay full price at the electronics store and look to 'price matching' with other competitors.

Aylin, who is based in Sydney, posted a video to social media app TikTok talking about the five years she spent as a computer and camera salesperson.

In that time she learned that workers have a 'threshold' of how much they can lower the price of a product for a customer, with the lowest level being cost price.

'Either be nice to your salesperson and ask if there are any deals you can do for me today or price match somewhere that has it cheaper,' she said.

Scroll down for video

A former JB Hi-Fi employee has revealed why you should never pay full price at the electronics store and look to 'price matching' with other competitors

Once such deal that can always be upheld is 10 per cent off for students buying Apple products.

'As you know JB Hi-Fi say "no we don't do discounts on Apple products" but we do price match,' she continued.

'This goes for DVDs, games, TVs, appliances... so don't pay full price'.

If you were to find a cheaper price on any of their stock elsewhere you could return to the store and ask for the item to be reduced, at the time of purchase.

This isn't the first time a FB Hi-Fi insider has shared their best tips for getting premium customer service at the retailer.

Aylin, who is based in Sydney, posted a video to social media app TikTok talking about the five years she spent as a computer and camera salesperson

Auj Mirza, 21, revealed her best 'hacks' in a video filmed with a fellow worker in the warehouse of a Sydney store.

'Tip number one, if you want to get served as soon as possible, go to the Apple desk because I can guarantee someone will come serve you ASAP,' she said.

'Hack number two, if you go into the store and they don't have the stock of the product, just tell them to transfer the stock in from another store.'

Auj Mirza, 21, works at a Sydney JB Hi-Fi store and has shared her best 'hacks' for customers

WHAT EVERY JB HI-FI CUSTOMER NEEDS TO KNOW 1. If a product goes on sale shortly after you buy it, you can ask for a refund on the difference in price 2. Go to the Apple desk if you want help from staff 3. Staff are likely to give you a discount on a large number of products, but only if you ask them for the best price 4. If a product is out of stock in one store, ask for it to be shipped from another store 5. Staff will reportedly assume you are stealing if you wear a hooded jumper 6. JB Hi-Fi matches prices if you see a product that is cheaper at another store

Ms Mirza continued by revealing that JB Hi-Fi workers were able to give discounts on products, but only if customers asked for a good price.

She offered a word of warning for customers who chose to wear a hooded jumper, saying that staff would 'most likely think you're stealing'.

Ms Mirza encouraged customers to ask staff for help, revealing that common items including hard-drives, SD cards and Apple accessories were kept behind the counter.

She also revealed that JB Hi-Fi would refund customers the difference if they bought a product a few days before it ended up going on sale.

'If you buy a product from JB Hi-Fi and that same product goes on sale, literally bring it back within two weeks and we will refund you the difference,' she said.

The 21-year-old revealed her best 'hacks and tips' in a video filmed with a fellow worker

She offered a word of warning for customers who chose to wear a hooded jumper, saying that staff would 'most likely think you're stealing'

Other JB Hi-Fi workers took to the comment section on the video to confirm the claims were true.

'I work at JB Hi-Fi too and can confirm,' one person wrote, while another added 'this will help me so much.'

Daily Mail Australia has contacted JB Hi-Fi for comment.