Her single Bad Guy became a worldwide hit after it stormed to the top of the charts earlier this year.

But in a new interview with Rolling Stone, Billie Eilish has candidly admitted that it was a piece of Australia that inspired her to create the up-beat anthem.

The 18-year-old revealed a trip to Sydney two years prior saw her become bizarrely obsessed with the distinctive sound of a pedestrian crossing - the very sound Australian locals hear every day.

Who knew! Billie Eilish has candidly admitted it was a piece of Australia which inspired her to create the up-beat anthem Bad Guy. Pictured: Billie in the music video for the hit song

'(When) you press it, it’s like "doop doop" and I was like, that’s hard! That’s the sound that it makes when you have to wait,' she told the publication.

The noise in question comes when a pedestrian waits for the green light at a road crossing - first a slow beep, then a rapid one to signal it's safe to go ahead.

The pop star was so in awe of the sound, she recorded it on her phone to take back to her producer - and it now features proudly within the chorus of the song.

Her brother-producer Finneas O’Connell recalled the moment, telling the magazine: 'We call that sound "grart",' - which is what she titled the voice recording at the time.

Obsessed: Billie star was so in awe of the sound, she recorded it on her phone to take back to her producer - and it now features proudly within the chorus of the song

However, he added that the sound itself was at first too fast to feature on the track.

'The issue is if you play that unaltered it’s not the right speed,' Finneas added, before revealing he compressed the noise down to make it 'wider' - which then fit perfectly.

The anthem soon became a massive hit, landing the singer a handful of Grammy nominations, including Record of the Year, Song of the Year and Best Pop Solo Performance.

Smash: The anthem soon became a massive hit, landing the singer a handful of Grammy nominations, including Record of the Year, Song of the Year and Best Pop Solo Performance

It's been a sensational year for the songstress, after it was recently revealed that AppleTV+ were buying her yet to be released documentary for $25million.

The film has 'already been shot' according to The Hollywood Reporter, for an estimated budget of $1million to $2million.

The full-length documentary captured all of Billie's high and lows following the release of her album When We Fall Asleep, Where Do We Go? that was released this March.

Apple has had major love for the young pop star and even awarded her with their coveted Apple Music artist of the year award for 2019.