A world weather map has revealed that Australia is currently the hottest place on earth as the country swelters through record high temperatures.

A geographical temperature map by Windy.com has most of Australia coloured dark red, showing how huge areas of the country are over 40C.

With the exception of southern Tasmania and a sliver of south-western WA, the entire continent is a shade of dark orange or red.

A world temperature map paints Australia a burnt-red as the nation battles a scorching heat wave

The graphic shows the northern hemisphere freezing through winter, marked in shades of purple and blue.

But even Australia's southern hemisphere neighbours are nowhere near as hot, although parts of South America, south-east Asia and Africa are also over 30C.

The heatwave is caused by a positive Indian Ocean Dipole climate driver which is creating hot and dry conditions across Australia.

The same system is pushing rain across eastern Africa and accompanying moderate temperatures, explaining the stark difference between the two continents on the map.

Meteorologist Tom Saunders said the southern hemisphere usually experienced heavy rain in mid to late December, due to a monsoon trough.

'[The lack of that] means there is no rain, so there no cloud cover, so temperatures over northern Australia are really heating up and northerlies have carried that hot air down to the southern coastline,' he told News.com.au.

The alarming visual comes as Australia experienced its hottest-ever day on Tuesday - which is expected to be surpassed by the week's end.

New South Wales and South Australia will sweat through temperatures above 40 degrees on Thursday, with parts of Sydney hitting 45 degrees.

A severe heatwave is tearing through the country as fire fighters battle monstrous blazes

A total fire ban is in place for SA and around the greater Sydney region, where fire fighters are currently battling monstrous blazes chomping at the city's edge.

A state emergency has been declared amid fears the Gospers Mountain fire, ravaging the northern end of the Blue Mountains National Park, could meet the Green Wattle Creek blaze to its south.

NSW is expected to cool on Friday while SA and Victoria heat up.

Melbourne will jump 20 degrees overnight, with the CBD climbing to 43 degrees on Friday.

Brisbane, Perth and Darwin will see out the weekend in steady 30 degree temperatures while Canberra and Sydney dip.

Melbourne and Hobart will stay cool over Saturday and Sunday with highs only reaching 23 and 20 degrees, while clouds ease the heat in Adelaide.