Richard 'Dickie' Wilkins said he hopes to shock and entertain viewers of Weekend Today as he moves onto the panel next year.

Channel Nine's new line-up was announced on Wednesday, with Dickie heading up the show, as well as continuing his role as the entertainment editor at the network.

The 65-year-old presenter told News.com.au he hoped to surprise viewers with his opinions on the news and politics instead of focusing exclusively on showbiz.

'I certainly hope to mix it up': Veteran entertainment reporter Richard Wilkins says he hopes to surprise viewers with his opinions on news and politics in his new role on Weekend Today with Rebecca Maddern (both pictured)

'I've never aspired to be bland or boring, so I certainly hope to mix it up on the weekends,' he said.

The presenter was moved to Today Extra from the Today show in December last year, and admitted the change caused confusion with his co-host David Campbell and especially to Sonia Kruger, who later left the show.

'In hindsight, David and I sharing the week, with Sonia having two work husbands, was maybe a little confusing for her and us and potentially the viewers,' he said.

New blood: In December last year, Dickie was demoted from the Today show as Channel Nine brought Triple J newsreader Brooke Boney (R) on board as his replacement

Dickie now has high hopes for his new role after a disastrous year of ratings for Channel Nine.

He is set to co-host the weekend show with Rebecca Maddern, who is known for fronting The Footy Show and Ninja Warrior Australia.

Jayne Azzopardi will present the news on Weekend Today, while Lauren Phillips will be doing the weather.

Take two: The presenter admitted his move to Today Extra caused confusion with his co-hosts David Campbell and Sonia Kruger

Karl Stefanovic will be once again headlining the Today show, but this time alongside Allison Langdon with Brooke Boney, who will continue on as entertainment presenter.

Dickie said Karl has learnt some important lessons after he was sacked from the show in December 2018 and compared himself to a 'naughty schoolboy'.

'I think the naughty schoolboy might have been given a couple of whacks of the cane, and I think he'll come back more aggressive and possibly a little more contrite,' he said.