Dietitian Lyndi Cohen has shared the seven reasons why you're always hungry directly after eating a meal - and what you can do to fix it.

Lyndi said it's not uncommon to want seconds or dessert after a big meal, but your hunger might be less random than you think.

The Sydney-based expert detailed the reasons why you always want more straight after food, from the fact that you're craving new flavours to the idea that you're not eating enough vegetables.

Dietitian Lyndi Cohen (pictured) has shared the seven reasons why you're always hungry directly after eating a meal - and what you can do to fix it

'After eating a plate of savoury food with one kind of flavour profile, you'll eventually get bored of it,' Lyndi said. This is why you want sweet food after savoury (pictured)

1. You're craving new flavours

The first reason why you might be hungry after a meal is down to something called 'sensory-specific satiety'.

While Lyndi said one of the main reasons to stop eating is fullness, she highlighted that another factor that dictates fullness is how 'interesting' you find the food.

'After eating a plate of savoury food with one kind of flavour profile, you'll eventually get bored of it,' she wrote on her blog.

And while this might cause you to stop eating, because your body craves variety, you will want to eat something that tastes totally different.

You could combat this by stopping eating your main course before you're full, and then picking something like a small piece of chocolate, some fruit, yoghurt or a mint for something sweet.

Lyndi said even just a 'mouthful' of something sweet should get rid of any cravings.

Lyndi (pictured) said you might sometimes feel hungry after a meal because you feel deprived - and so therefore you should stop banning foods from your diet and embrace moderation

2. You feel deprived

If you're a serial dieter, one of the reasons why you might feel hungry after food is down to you feeling deprived.

By banning certain foods from your diet, you are more likely to crave them and seek them out even more.

A way to get round this is to avoid banning foods and approach how you eat with moderation.

Lyndi said she believes that by allowing yourself a little of everything, you won't feel the need to binge later.

3. You need more balance

It might surprise you to hear that one of the reasons why you feel hungry after a meal is because your meal isn't balanced enough.

Make sure every meal contains vegetables, protein, good quality carbohydrates and a source of fat - to ensure both your brain and body remain full and satisfied.

4. You're not eating enough

You might not realise it, but you might not be eating enough calories in your meal to fuel your day.

'If you under-eat at one meal, chances are you'll end up eating more at the next,' Lyndi said.

Avoid this by making sure your breakfast is satisfying enough to keep you going until lunch, and eat a substantial lunch with healthy fats and slow-burning carbs to stave off the 3pm munchies.

The only meal that can - and should - be slightly smaller is dinner, to allow for you to sleep for ideally 7+ hours.

'If you under-eat at one meal, chances are you'll end up eating more at the next,' Lyndi said (lunch bowls pictured)

5. You're not eating enough fruit and vegetables

While you might be getting enough calories in, this means nothing if you're not getting the right servings of fruit and veg.

'Vegetables bulk out your meal, giving you plenty of roughage to fill your stomach and this helps you to feel full,' Lyndi said.

Remember that a serving of vegetables is roughly the size of one closed fist.

Try to get between five and seven serves each day, and one or two pieces of fruit.

6. You're thirsty

Many of us confuse hunger with thirst all too easily, as the sensations are similar - especially after eating.

'To avoid confusion, I like to have (and finish) a big glass of water at every meal,' Lyndi said.

She also carries a water bottle around with her all the time, and makes sure to keep sipping on it during the day.

A good way to check whether you're adequately hydrated is to check your pee, Lyndi said.

It should be light yellow and clear as opposed to dark and strong-smelling.

7. It's a habit

If you periodically crave something sweet after eating, it could be more of a habit than a necessity.

For this, Lyndi recommends the 'one hour trick'.

'Firstly, give yourself permission to have the treat,' she said.

'Then, you simply have to wait an hour to eat it. If you still feel like the treat after the hour, you can have it. Most often, you’ll forget about the craving altogether.'

This is because most cravings only last a short period of time, and if you wait one out a few days running, your sweet habit will be broken.

To read more from Lyndi Cohen, you can visit her website here.