Survivor contestant Kellee Kim finally spoke out during the show's three-hour finale about Dan Spilo's inappropriate touching as host, Jeff Probst, apologized for the way her accusation was handled.

Last week, Spilo became the first contestant in Survivor history to be kicked off the island. Spilo was first accused of sexual harassment by Kim in November, and while he was warned about his behavior, he remained on the island.

After last week's episode, it was revealed that he was removed from the island following an incident where he touched a crew member's leg that wasn't filmed, but witnessed by another cast member.

While Spilo's behavior was not addressed in the Season 39 finale that was aired Wednesday night, towards the top of the reunion special, Probst spoke with Kim for the first time about the incident.

On the reunion special, Probst said this season had 'teaching moments,' including Jack and Jamal's incident, but most importantly, the incident with Spilo.

Probst begins by saying: 'You were right. You were right to speak up, you were right to step forward, despite a lot of risk, and to speak your truth, and I want to apologize for your pain.'

Scroll down for video

Survivor contestant Kellee Kim (pictured) finally spoke out during the show's three-hour finale about Dan Spilo's inappropriate touching as host, Jeff Probst, apologized for the way her accusation was handled

Jeff's apology: Probst begins by saying, 'You were right. You were right to speak up, you were right to step forward and I want to apologize for your pain.'

Last week, Spilo (pictured) became the first contestant in Survivor history to be kicked off the island. Spilo was first accused of sexual harassment by Kim in November, and while he was warned about his behavior, he remained on the island

'It was a very complex, unprecedented situation,' Probst said. 'We intended to do the right thing, but in the months past, we have learned so much about what we could have and should have done instead.'

'We are committed to doing our part to turn this into something positive, and it's all because of Kellee,' Probst said.

He then turned it to her, to speak her mind in any way, because she hasn't been able to talk thus far.

Kim began by saying she's very nervous and she feels the pressure has been building for many months, stating she wants to 'do right' for her own voice but for others.

When Probst asked if she's upset with him, she says:' I think one of the things that was one of the hardest things was the fact that Dan remained in the game, even after I spoke up. The reason why is not necessarily the injustice, because I felt I spoke up and I felt like I was not believed.'

'When someone goes through something like this, to not be supported and not be believed, it's one of the hardest things,' she said poignantly.

Kim began by saying she's very nervous and she feels the pressure has been building for many months, stating she wants to 'do right' for her own voice but for others.

'When someone goes through something like this, to not be supported and not be believed, it's one of the hardest things,' Kim (pictured) said poignantly

Kim said she hoped that CBS and Survivor can take this, learn from this and do better, with Probst adding they are committed to doing better

'We are committed to doing our part to turn this into something positive, and it's all because of Kellee,' Probst said

Probst said that what she said is the 'biggest package' about what they learned about how this unfolded, adding her interview prompted them into action.

He added they, 'weren't transparent' about why they met, but there were people knew in the meetings that unfolded after the incident is that everyone knew it was Dan, and that people who used that situation to lie to stay in the game.

He added that Missy and Elizabeth got a lot of 'social media hate mail' due to the incident.

Probst said 'no one asked for this,' and that 'your voice should have been enough,' and assured her that they were taking the right steps to address these issues if they ever surface again.

'I certainly did not expect my Survivor experience to be defined by this,' Kim said. 'We can't go back and change what happened to me, because it wasn't just me, it was all these other people who were speaking up in different ways.'

'Sometimes, someone might not be ready to speak up in ways I was ready to speak up, and even though I was ready to speak up, it was incredibly difficult,' Kim added.

'I that hope this season of Survivor isn't defined by inappropriate touching and sexual harassment, I hope it's defined by change,' Kim said, while getting choked up.

'I have to believe that individuals and institutions are capable of change. We've learned a lot and we're still learning, 'she said.

Dismissed: While Spilo was given a warning about his actions, he was ultimately asked to leave the island after a second incident was revealed, involving a crew member whose leg he inappropriately touched

Title card: The end of the episode featured a title card, which read, 'Dan was removed from the game after a report of another incident, which happened off-camera and did not involve a player'

She said she hopes that CBS and Survivor can take this, learn from this and do better, with Probst adding they are committed to doing better.

CBS recently announced new policies and procedures in dealing with sexual misconduct accusations in the future.

Probst added that he knows there are families watching and will start conversations because of this.

During Survivor's November 13 episode, Kim, a 29 year old MBA student, accused Spilo, a 48 year old talent agent of sexual harassment.

She claimed he rested his head on her knee, brushed a lock of her hair with his hand, and placed his arm around her waist.

During Survivor's November 13 episode, Kim, a 29 year old MBA student, accused Spilo (pictured), a 48 year old talent agent of sexual harassment

There were two more women who came forward against Spilo, Missy Byrd and Elizabeth Beisel, but they ultimately admitted they fabricated their claims as part of their strategy to take home the $1million cash prize.

Spilo was warned about his behavior by the network and producers, but he was allowed to stay on the island, while Kellee was voted off.

Spilo apologized for his actions at the tribal council in the next episode, stating: 'I work in an industry in which the #MeToo movement was formed and allowed - thank God - to blossom and become powerful and strong.

'My personal feeling is if anyone ever felt for a second uncomfortable about anything I’ve ever done, I’m horrified about that and I’m terribly sorry.'

'If that person was Kellee - if Kellee ever felt that in the freezing cold rain, or in tight shelters… or in all the ways we have to crawl around and through each other in this game — if I ever did anything that ever even remotely made her feel uncomfortable, it horrifies me, and I am terribly sorry,' he added.

While Spilo was given a warning about his actions, he was ultimately asked to leave the island after a second incident was revealed, involving a crew member whose leg he inappropriately touched.

Spilo's dismissal was briefly announced in last week's episode, when Probst told cast mates that he had been let go.

'Ok, so I just spoke privately with Dan and I want to update you guys: A decision has been made and Dan will not be returning to the game,' Probst said, adding he won't be in the camp, or in the jury, and he's, 'gone.'

The end of the episode featured a title card, which read, 'Dan was removed from the game after a report of another incident, which happened off-camera and did not involve a player.'

Kim (left) claimed Spilo (right) rested his head on her knee, brushed a lock of her hair with his hand, and placed his arm around her waist

CBS later announced that the reunion special would be pre-taped, and not live, as per usual tradition, and it was later revealed that the special would feature Kellee Kim speaking with Probst about the Spilo incident.

Still, the two-hour finale episode before the one-hour reunion show featured no mention of Spilo's behavior, or his dismissal.

The episode began with Probst in Los Angeles in front of a huge crowd for the reunion special, where he brought out the final five guests.

'We started with 20, we're down to five,' host Probst announced during the live introduction, which featured the five finalists - Lauren Beck, Tommy Sheehan, Janet Carbin, Dean Kowalski and Noura Salman.

Probst was joined by the mentors Boston Rob and Sandra if she learned anything, and she said she learned a lot, but her main focus was learning from Boston Rob.

Rob said, 'I've played enough Survivor to know you have to be constantly paying attention out there.'

Probst then showed the packed crowd watching Island of the Idols finale, which opened in Day 36 with Rob and Sandra talking.

'I met my wife on this show,' Rob said, with Sandra adding she's found happiness, 'in the money I've made.'

Mentors: Probst was joined by the mentors Boston Rob and Sandra if she learned anything, and she said she learned a lot, but her main focus was learning from Boston Rob

Boston Rob: Rob said, 'I've played enough Survivor to know you have to be constantly paying attention out there'

Day 36: Probst then showed the packed crowd watching Island of the Idols finale, which opened in Day 36 with Rob and Sandra talking

Rob adds there are only five days left, with just five finalists, three make it to the finals and one win the $1 million.

A boat arrives as the finalists are told to grab their stuff and go to the Island of the Idols, with Dean stating it's, 'time to turn it up a notch and close this thing out.'

Tommy says he's the only person left who has not been to the Island, as they meet Sandra and Boston Rob.

Rob tells the finalists that there are gifts for those are open, and that, for the rest of the game, they're going to all live in the house.

They also give them gifts, brand new limited edition buffs, with Sandra saying any of them can take the title of Survivor.

Rob says there's no way they'd leave them without 'one last test,' adding that he hopes, 'someone has been paying attention.'

Island: A boat arrives as the finalists are told to grab their stuff and go to the Island of the Idols, with Dean stating it's, 'time to turn it up a notch and close this thing out'

Rob: Rob tells the finalists that there are gifts for those are open, and that, for the rest of the game, they're going to all live in the house

Buff: They also give them gifts, brand new limited edition buffs, with Sandra saying any of them can take the title of Survivor

The cast marvels at the amenities of the house, with Noura saying she felt like she's been 'upgraded.'

Janet is amazed that she is guaranteed to be in the final four (since she has an idol), as she talks to Tommy about their alliance - 'Tommy and the mommy.'

Noura thinks Dean is a 'threat,' thinks it's a 'no-brainer' to get rid of Dean.

Noura: The cast marvels at the amenities of the house, with Noura saying she felt like she's been 'upgraded'

No-brainer: Noura thinks Dean is a 'threat,' thinks it's a 'no-brainer' to get rid of Dean

Tommy takes off his brand new buff, stating they have never given out new buffs in the finale, and he notices that there is a machete on the buff.

He finds a machete stuck into a coconut, with nothing inside but it's pink, but he's color blind so he brings on Dean.

'I guess he trusts me, cool, I'll keep my eyes open and we'll see what happens I guess,' Dean says.

Notice: Tommy takes off his brand new buff, stating they have never given out new buffs in the finale, and he notices that there is a machete on the buff

Searching: He finds a machete stuck into a coconut, with nothing inside but it's pink, but he's color blind so he brings on Dean

Tommy complains that Dean isn't helping and he is color blind so it's tough for him, but he spots a a red board that sticks out, and under it he sees an H, which is 'definitely the next clue.'

But he has no idea what the H means but the 'symbol is driving me nuts.'

He shows Dean the H but he says he has to 'take a poop' but he tries to go behind Tommy's back, and has an idea about the swing, which he thinks is similar, and he finds another symbol.

He pries open the bamboo pole with the symbol and finds the immunity idol, with a note from Sandra and Boston Rob, then revealing he isn't telling Tommy anything, burning the plank with the symbol so Tommy won't find it.

The finalists are lead into an area by Probst, who takes the immunity necklace from Dean before revealing the challenge.

The winner gets a guaranteed spot in the final four, and the reward of a big dinner including steak and potatoes, or vegetarian options.

Symbol hunting: He shows Dean the H but he says he has to 'take a poop' but he tries to go behind Tommy's back, and has an idea about the swing, which he thinks is similar, and he finds another symbol

Discovered: He pries open the bamboo pole with the symbol and finds the immunity idol, with a note from Sandra and Boston Rob, then revealing he isn't telling Tommy anything, burning the plank with the symbol so Tommy won't find it

The five contestants have to knock off rope rungs from a platform, which they'll need to turn into a ladder to get to the next level.

Tommy and Dean get to the final level first, but the rest catch up quickly to the final maze, where they have to maneuver balls into a balance beam of a maze.

Dean wins the maze challenge, guaranteeing him a spot in the final four, as Probst gives him the necklace.

Challenge: The five contestants have to knock off rope rungs from a platform, which they'll need to turn into a ladder to get to the next level

Balance maze: Tommy and Dean get to the final level first, but the rest catch up quickly to the final maze, where they have to maneuver balls into a balance beam of a maze

Dean also gets to pick someone to go to lunch with her, and Julie thinks it should be her, because she hasn't eaten well.

Surprisingly, Dean picks Noura, in an effort to 'bury the hatchet' with her which she appreciates and gives him a hug.

Dean mentions that he has the immunity necklace, a rare Idol Nullifier, only the second to be seen in Survivor history, and the hidden immunity idol, so things are looking good for 'DK Chilling.'

Lunch: Dean also gets to pick someone to go to lunch with her, and Julie thinks it should be her, because she hasn't eaten well

Lunch date: Surprisingly, Dean picks Noura, in an effort to 'bury the hatchet' with her which she appreciates and gives him a hug

Dean and Noura head up to their lunch feast, with Noura thanking him for putting their differences aside.

She called him a 'man' today, adding that she called him a boy before but now she sees him as a man.

Noura says she saw his invitation as a date, and she's kinda into him now, but he says it's not a romantic gesture.

His strategy seems to have paid off, since he asked Noura if she was picked, if he'd pick him, and she said she would.

They set their sights on getting Janet out, with Janet adding that she has an Immunity Idol and this is her last chance to play it.

She tells Tommy that, 'I have a friggin Idol, we need to use it,' as they set their sights on Lauren.

Man Dean: She called him a 'man' today, adding that she called him a boy before but now she sees him as a man

Strategy: His strategy seems to have paid off, since he asked Noura if she was picked, if he'd pick him, and she said she would.

Janet is quite confident, telling Tommy that they're picking each other if they're chosen, but Tommy says in confession that, he 'really needs her out of this game' and goes behind her back.

Lauren says her game 'rests in the hands of Dean, as she chats with Tommy and Dean, with Dean saying if Lauren 'squeaks by,' she's 'beating both of us.'

Dean now knows for a fact that Janet found an idol, and Tommy is getting a 'weird gut feeling' about Dean.

Janet: Janet is quite confident, telling Tommy that they're picking each other if they're chosen, but Tommy says in confession that, he 'really needs her out of this game' and goes behind her back

At the tribal council, Probst talks to the finalists about their strategists in front of the jury.

Janet played her immunity idol, but Dean played his Idol Nullifier, and there were three votes against her, enough to send her off the island.

Two of the jury members mentioned that no one wanted to go against Janet in the Fire Challenge, since she was known as the Fire Lady.'

'I feel really naive and stupid,' Janet said, but she's 'proud of the game I played because it's who I am.'

Council: At the tribal council, Probst talks to the finalists about their strategists in front of the jury

Fire Lady: Two of the jury members mentioned that no one wanted to go against Janet in the Fire Challenge, since she was known as the Fire Lady'

Cheers: At the live reunion special, Probst brings out Janet, as the Los Angeles crowd cheers for her

Compliment: Probst says it was a 'compliment' that she was betrayed by the contestants, adding that she didn't listen to her gut when showing Tommy the idol. Janet said she's been getting letters from young women and men stating, 'I want to live my truth'

At the live reunion special, Probst brings out Janet, as the Los Angeles crowd cheers for her.

Probst says it was a 'compliment' that she was betrayed by the contestants, adding that she didn't listen to her gut when showing Tommy the idol.

Janet said she's been getting letters from young women and men stating, 'I want to live my truth.'

Dean talks about making pacts with Noura and Tommy, and he wants to be the first to make it to the final three without making fire.

Tommy tries to make a plea to Noura to form an alliance, telling Noura what Dean said about her.

She added in confession that she likes being a 'hot commodity' but she gets flustered while seeing Dean in the water.

'It's finally about me, it's finally about my game,' Noura says.

Day 38 begins with a 'familiar challenge,' and Dean actually takes off the necklace for Probst, saying he figures he should, 'change things up.'

Flustered: She added in confession that she likes being a 'hot commodity' but she gets flustered while seeing Dean in the water

Game: 'It's finally about me, it's finally about my game,' Noura says

Spelling: Today's challenge has the contestants spelling the words 'Island of the Idols' with letters on a wobbly mechanism, where every movement can cause the letters to fall off

Island: All of the contestants are having a lot of trouble, but Dean spells out Island first, with Noura right behind her

Today's challenge has the contestants spelling the words 'Island of the Idols' with letters on a wobbly mechanism, where every movement can cause the letters to fall off.

All of the contestants are having a lot of trouble, but Dean spells out Island first, with Noura right behind her.

Dean spells out 'The' as Noura spells out 'Of,' but the more letters they have, the more difficult it becomes.

Dean drops a letter, which allows Noura to take the lead, with just five letters left and Dean behind her, but Tommy and Lauren are so far behind.

Dean drops several letters, which allows Noura to take over and win the challenge, winning her third of the season.

She has a guaranteed spot in the final three, stating her emotion is, 'I feel amazing.'

Behind: Dean drops a letter, which allows Noura to take the lead, with just five letters left and Dean behind her, but Tommy and Lauren are so far behind

Winner: Dean drops several letters, which allows Noura to take over and win the challenge, winning her third of the season

Amazing: She has a guaranteed spot in the final three, stating her emotion is, 'I feel amazing'

Emotional: An emotional Noura says in confession that she thought she was going to be the first person voted out, but adds, 'I did the impossible'

Already knows: Tommy says in confession that Noura has 'all the power for the first time,' and she tells them all that she already knows what she wants to do

Probst says she is going to pick one person to sit with her, forcing the other two to make fire.

An emotional Noura says in confession that she thought she was going to be the first person voted out, but adds, 'I did the impossible.'

Tommy says in confession that Noura has 'all the power for the first time,' and she tells them all that she already knows what she wants to do.

She wants to wash off in the ocean first and then tell them, but she wants to have fun first, leaving the others waiting.

She comes back and they all say they're very nervous. She starts complimenting everyone and no one knows where her head is really at still.

Noura tells Lauren that 'she is the queen, so I have to put you to fire,' which brings Lauren to tears.

Fire challenge: Noura then breaks down Dean and Tommy, but she picks Tommy and sends Dean against Lauren

Helpful Tommy: Tommy goes to help Lauren make fire, because one of them who is eliminated will be on the jury

Not happy: Noura goes to to talk to Lauren, and Lauren is not pleased at all

Noura then breaks down Dean and Tommy, but she picks Tommy and sends Dean against Lauren.

Lauren goes off to the beach and cries, complains that Noura even said she was her number one but then Noura sent them to fire.

Tommy goes to help Lauren make fire, because one of them who is eliminated will be on the jury.

Noura goes to to talk to Lauren, and Lauren is not pleased at all.

'I'm pissed off, and that's fuel for me to win a million dollars,' Lauren says in confession. 'I believe in myself, and I know I can do this, because I have to win.'

The jury is brought in, and Janet is on the jury, as Probst asks Noura how she felt.

'To complete a challenging challenge like that, it's everything,' Noura said.

Noura tries to say her piece and Lauren is not happy, with Noura complaining about her facial expressions.

Lauren says that if Noura thinks she is that threat, she wants to prove her wrong.

Threat: Lauren says that if Noura thinks she is that threat, she wants to prove her wrong

Noura: Lauren says that if Noura thinks she is that threat, she wants to prove her wrong

No surprise: Dean says he, 'wasn't too surprised' that he was picked for the Firemaking Challenge, as it gets under way

Dean says he, 'wasn't too surprised' that he was picked for the Firemaking Challenge, as it gets under way.

Probst says they have to build a flame that has to burn through the rope and raise the flag, each being given the same supplies.

Dean gets a bit of a flame first, but Lauren is right behind her, as members of the jury root for different ones.

'Both players are in this, pretty even right now,' Probst says, but they're both a long way from the rope they need to burn.

Dean's flame is growing bigger, right on the rope, as Lauren tries to stay in it, but Dean emerges victorious.

Dean admits that today was the first day that he made fire, as Lauren is eliminated.

Fire challenge: Probst says they have to build a flame that has to burn through the rope and raise the flag, each being given the same supplies

Even: 'Both players are in this, pretty even right now,' Probst says, but they're both a long way from the rope they need to burn

Eliminated: Dean admits that today was the first day that he made fire, as Lauren is eliminated

Victory: Dean's flame is growing bigger, right on the rope, as Lauren tries to stay in it, but Dean emerges victorious

Leaving: 'Now I can walk away from this game with my head held high,' Lauren says, before bringing her torch to Jeff and leaving the island, leaving Noura, Tommy and Dean as the final three

Lauren admits that staying outside for 38 days is amazing to her, because she's not an outdoor person at all.

'Now I can walk away from this game with my head held high,' Lauren says, before bringing her torch to Jeff and leaving the island, leaving Noura, Tommy and Dean as the final three.

Lauren cries, but admits that everyone on the jury did love her, and if she probably would have won.

At the live reunion, Probst brings Lauren out, who says that it's great to hear she's an inspiration to someone else.

Probst says that he has a mutual friend with Lauren, and she was the first contestant in 20 years that came from a friend's recommendation.

On Day 39, Noura and Tommy wake up as Noura says that she's proud of her game.

Live reunion: At the live reunion, Probst brings Lauren out, who says that it's great to hear she's an inspiration to someone else

Mutual friend: Probst says that he has a mutual friend with Lauren, and she was the first contestant in 20 years that came from a friend's recommendation

Jury: At the Tribal Council at Night 39, Dean, Noura and Tommy watch as the jury comes in, and Lauren is part of the jury

They all share some champagne as they cook breakfast, as Tommy says it was one of the hardest things he's ever done in his life, but one of the best.

Dean says it may have been the proudest he's ever been in his life, but he thinks its Dean vs. Tommy in the final.

Tommy thinks it's a 'two-man race' between him and Dean, but he adds that he can't count Noura out.

Tommy says he'll help Noura with his speech, but Noura knows he's, 'stroking her ego,' but they all know it's all down to the jury.

Dean thinks he has the perfect resume to win, but Noura thinks no one played the game like her.

At the Tribal Council at Night 39, Dean, Noura and Tommy watch as the jury comes in, and Lauren is part of the jury.

Probst says it is their answers to the jury's questions that will decide who wins the title of Sole Survivor.

The jury starts with the social aspects, with Jack saying they're all 'tremendously undecided' about who to vote for.

Champagne: They all share some champagne as they cook breakfast, as Tommy says it was one of the hardest things he's ever done in his life, but one of the best

Race: Tommy thinks it's a 'two-man race' between him and Dean, but he adds that he can't count Noura out

Kim talks about the outwit portion of the game, with Dean saying his piece, saying, 'DK chilling strategy.'

Dean talks about how Kellee trusted her enough to give her an Idol, as Noura says her piece about strategy.

She talks about 'going on a date' and everyone tells her to stop, but the jury all thinks she didn't actually have a strategy.

Tommy's outwit philosophy was to make connections with everyone, which were real, not gameplay. He also 'wanted to play in the middle at all times.'

Lauren asks who Tommy trusted the most, and Tommy says her, but Noura says Tommy didn't tell her strategies he told Dean.

Tommy says he played the game 'hard' and they had 'Dean coming along,' as Janet asks when she decided to betray her.

He says without hesitation that it was around eight, and he said he hated to do it.

Undecided: The jury starts with the social aspects, with Jack saying they're all 'tremendously undecided' about who to vote for

Dean: Dean talked about not wanting to show his strengths so much, and then reveals that he found the secret idol, as it starts actually raining

Kellee says she doesn't really, 'get' Dean, but he says that 'never getting negative' is a big part of his life.

Noura is asked about her process of bringing Dean to the end, and she thought she thrived in the individual aspects.

Dean talked about not wanting to show his strengths so much, and then reveals that he found the secret idol, as it starts actually raining.

They start calling him out for his alliances as Dean, before they all say their final pieces before the jury votes on the $1 million winner.

The jury all gets sent up to vote, as Lauren reveals she votes for Tommy and says, 'This is what loyalty looks like.'

Jeff says he will see everyone back in Los Angeles for the reading of the votes and leaves the island, and, through the magic of editing, arrives at the live reunion in Los Angeles with the votes.

Votes: Jeff says he will see everyone back in Los Angeles for the reading of the votes and leaves the island, and, through the magic of editing, arrives at the live reunion in Los Angeles with the votes

Winner: Jeff starts reading the votes, with Tommy and Dean trading votes for the first four, but Tommy pulls ahead and is named the winner of Survivor.

Votes: There were only two votes for Dean, with the rest for Tommy, as Probst closes out the finale by teasing the reunion special

Jeff starts reading the votes, with Tommy and Dean trading votes for the first four, but Tommy pulls ahead and is named the winner of Survivor.

There were only two votes for Dean, with the rest for Tommy, as Probst closes out the finale by teasing the reunion special.

Probst asks Tommy about how he played the information game, with Tommy saying that he 'felt like a kingpin.'

When asked if there was any guilt in betraying people, he said he loved all of those people but he was there to win.

Boston Rob and Sandra said that, at the Island of the Idols, everyone said that they were with Tommy, so they knew he was doing something right.

Dean said the whole experience made him grateful for all of the things he has in life, including a roof over his head.

Probst asked Noura about her standing out, and she says, 'if you're part of the herd, you'll never be heard'.

Kingpin: Probst asks Tommy about how he played the information game, with Tommy saying that he 'felt like a kingpin'

Betrayed: When asked if there was any guilt in betraying people, he said he loved all of those people but he was there to win

Sia gift: Jamal is awarded $15,000, with Elaine gifted $100,000, which caused her to break down in tears

They also spoke about one of the season's standouts, Elaine, who became a fan favorite throughout the season.

Karishma said the game 'reminds you what you have at home,' as they played a package about Jack and Jamal's do-rag incident, though Jack wasn't there for the reunion.

Jamal said the response has been amazing, and said that he lives together with Jack as roommates now in Rhode Island.

Probst also talked about the annual 'Sia gift,' which the singer awards to her favorite contestants.

Jamal is awarded $15,000, with Elaine gifted $100,000, which caused her to break down in tears.

The final Sia gift was for $100,000 to Janet.

After the conversation with Kellee Kim, Probst debuted the first look at Season 40, featuring 20 previous winners - Winners At War.

They are playing for the biggest prize in reality show history - $2 million, when the new season debuts in February 2020.