She is expecting her first child with husband Karl Stefanovic, 45.

And on Wednesday, Jasmine Yarbrough, 35, was simply glowing as she attended a Christmas dinner with her man.

Taking to Instagram on Thursday, the shoe designer shared a photo alongside her husband at the event and wrote: 'Merry Litmas.'

Beauty in black! Pregnant Jasmine Yarbrough (pictured) stunned in a figure-hugging gown as she attended a Christmas dinner with husband Karl Stefanovic on Wednesday evening

Jasmine stunned in a glamorous long black gown, which featured sleeves as well as a plunging neckline and a sliver detail at the front.

She accessorised her look with silver bracelets and completed the ensemble with a pair of black strappy heels.

The mother-to-be had her golden locks in waves and styled them to one side while opting for a neutral palette of makeup.

Friends: Jasmine took to Instagram on Thursday to share another photo of herself and Karl posing with their friends at the dinner

Karl also looked sharp in a black tuxedo alongside a white buttoned shirt, black bow tie and matching coloured shoes.

The 45-year-old was all smiles as he embraced his wife while standing in front of a decorative flower wall.

Jasmine also shared another photo of herself and Karl posing with their two friends at the dinner.

The post comes after Jasmine's 'friend' recently confirmed the couple are expecting a child and are 'over the moon' to be starting a family.

Growing family? Their outing comes after Jasmine's 'friend' recently confirmed the couple are expecting a child and are 'over the moon' to be starting a family

The couple, who are yet to make a formal pregnancy announcement themselves, are believed to be keeping the news under wraps.

Karl has reportedly already told his three children, Jackson, 19, Ava, 13, and River, 12 and his ex-wife, Cassandra Thorburn, about the pregnancy as a 'courtesy'.

Karl and Jasmine met at a boat party in Sydney, just months after he split with his ex-wife in 2016.

The couple married in a lavish ceremony at five-star One&Only Palmilla resort in Los Cabos, Mexico, in December 2018.