Advertisement

At least 40 homes have been lost and several firefighters severely burned as out-of-control bushfires rip through the Blue Mountains and edge even closer to Sydney.

Balmoral - home to about 700 people in the New South Wales Southern Highlands - and several other tiny towns were ravaged by the 149,000-hectare megafire early on Thursday afternoon.

Two firefighters had to be placed in induced comas after being overrun by flames at Bargo, while another three were injured.

A 56-year-old man suffering burns to his face and legs and a 28-year-old woman with burns to her face both had to be airlifted to Concord Hospital in 'serious conditions'.

An apocalyptic trail of destruction was left in the wake of the flames south-west of Sydney as homes were flattened and hundreds of people forced to evacuate.

NSW RFS captain Jon Russell said he thought he was going to die as his crew were trapped in their melting fire truck by a sharp change in wind direction.

'As I got out of the driver's seat, they came back screaming "Get back in the truck get back in the truck",' he said.

'We stuck hard up against the garage because it was the only thing I could see … It was unbelievable the speed that moved at. Of all the days I have been a firefighter, today is the only day I thought it would be my last.'

The Hume Highway was also shut between Campbelltown and Mittagong, with the blaze threatening to jump the road.

Motorists have been warned they face having their holiday plans ruined by the bushfires blazing around the vital motorway connecting the region with Sydney.

Scroll down for video

A property was flattened in Buxton, 150 kilometres southwest of Sydney as residents were told it was too late to leave

A swing set appeared to be the only remaining structure on a fire-ravaged Buxton property

Burnt-out cars sat in fire-ravaged bushland in Buxton as fire threatened multiple communities south-west of Sydney

In Balmoral and the neighbouring town of Bargo, NSW premier Gladys Berejiklian said 20 homes have been destroyed, while another 20 were lost in Buxton

The devastating blazes have prompted NSW premier Gladys Berejiklian to declare a state of emergency for the next seven days and urged any travellers to reassess their holiday plans.

'As bad as conditions are today, Saturday is going to be worse,' NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian said on Thursday afternoon.

'If you are told a road is closed, if you are told not to travel please take the advice, this is a state of emergency, we don't take it lightly.

'It's normally a special time of the year, but we are under extreme circumstance and we just need everybody to listen to the warnings.'

But the Bureau of Meteorology said the worst is still yet to come with a slight relief in temperatures on Friday before an 'exceptionally hot air mass' blasts New South Wales on Saturday.

'Saturday has the potential to be a very challenging day for NSW and ACT residents, with ­severe to extreme heatwave conditions, deteriorating air quality and gusty wind changes which will lead to dangerous fire con­ditions,' meteorologist Andre Peace told The Daily Telegraph.

Ms Berejiklian acknowledged that Saturday is going to be an even bigger challenge than Thursday.

A truck caught ablaze as the devastating fires ripped through NSW's southern highlands on Thursday

A tree is engulfed by flames after 45C temperatures and 100km/h winds created a perfect storm in the NSW Blue Mountains

In Balmoral and the neighbouring town of Bargo, authorities said 20 homes have been destroyed, while another 20 were lost in Buxton.

One woman who was loading horses into a float as she fled Bargo - where at least six homes have been lost - said both her animals and residents of the town were 'in panic mode'.

'Property can be saved but it's life that can,' she told 9News.

Even more crushing for the firefighters battling to keep the bushfires under control was the fact many of them lost their own homes to the blazes.

'They're absolutely shattered - they are devastated by loss but it goes that little further when it's your own home or the colleague you've got sitting on the fire truck next to you,' NSW Rural Fire Service Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons told the Illawarra Mercury.

Residents in many towns have now been told it is too late to leave.

Adding to the headaches for fire fighters is a southerly change, due to hit on Thursday and push the blaze towards southern Sydney suburbs including Tahmoor.

Residents in Tahmoor, Pheasants Nest, Buxton, Couridjah, Thirlmere, Bargo, Balmoral and Yanderra have been told it is too late to leave.

The bushfire left behind just a smouldering wreckage of this home after striking the township of Bargo - with one resident said they were shocked the fire had reached suburbia

Residents watched on as the out-of-control bushfire near Bargo sent thick plumes of smoke into the sky

The mayor of Wollondilly Shire Matthew Deeth said the situation was 'as serious as it gets'.

'Our evacuation centre at Picton Bowling Club is at capacity and our RFS volunteers are stretched incredibly thin,' he told The Australian.

300 people were on Thursday night sheltering inside RSL clubs at Piction and nearby Mittagong.

One resident said they were shocked the fire had reached suburbia - with the collection of small towns less than 50km away from Campbelltown on Sydney's south-western fringe.

By 7pm on Thursday evening, the state's Rural Fire Service extended the same warning to the towns of Newnes Junction, Dargan and Clarence in the Blue Mountains.

Two major fire fronts have converged in Balmoral - which have been fanned by the winds exceeding 100 km/h

A property smoulders at Balmoral after the flames left a trail of destruction in their wake on Thursday

A ball of flamed consumed this home in Buxton, which neighbours fire-ravaged Balmoral in NSW's Southern Highlands,

While conditions are expected to ease slightly overnight, Rural Fire Services (RFS) crews will be under the pump for days to come with conditions expected to hit 42C on Saturday

A 56-year-old man suffering burns to his face and legs and a 28-year-old woman with burns to her face both had to be airlifted to Concord Hospital in 'serious conditions'

'We have got two major fire fronts having impacted this location on Wilson (Drive) Balmoral,' Fire and Rescue duty commander Kerin Lambert told The Daily Telegraph.

'Two major fire fronts have literally come together.

'When it happened, we had 50m high winds, at least 100km/h winds, incredible radiant heat and numerous houses were catching alight.'

Firefighters in the Blue Mountains are meanwhile desperately battling to contain a blaze - which on Friday crossed the Bells Line of Road - burning near the outskirts of the town of Bilpin

Firefighters were unable to save this home at Bargo, believed to be one of a few dozen lost on a horror day of fire across NSW

A firefighter battles against the blazes in Balmoral as NSW premier Gladys Berejiklian placed the state into a state of emergency for the next seven days

A home is claimed by the Green Wattle Creek Fire at Buxton and NSW premier Gladys Berejiklian warned conditions on Saturday could lead to further devestation

A wall of smoke and fire confronts a member of the Rural Fire Service at Green Wattle in the Blue Mountains

The enormity of the 415,000 hectare bushfire which is burning out of control in the Blue Mountains can be seen in the background

A bushfire burns along the Old Hume Highway near Tahmoor - one of several towns where residents have been told to leave

Conditions are not expected to ease until late on Thursday night, before another day of danger on Friday and worsening conditions of 42C on Saturday.

Rural Fire Service commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons told media the fire was growing at such a rapid rate that it was currently hard to get exact details on properties lost.

'I suspect we're probably talking in the vicinity of dozens. What that is in terms of homes, sheds, facilities, I just simply don't have that detail at this stage,' he said.

'It's too fast and unfolding as we speak.'

The devastating bushfires comes as Queensland's Fire and Emergency Service warned they could not risk sending their firefighters interstate.

More than 55 fires across the state are still burning and firefighters continue to strengthen containment lines as they brace for potentially dangerous conditions from tomorrow into the weekend.

The Gospers Mountain fire, which is ravaging the Wollemi National Park, could meet the Green Wattle Creek blaze as New South Wales battles temperatures scaling above 40C on Thursday

Up to 40 homes have been lost and several firefighters rushed to hospital suffering severe burns

Bushland in Balmoral was smouldering by Thursday evening after the bushfire ripped through the region 150km south-west of Sydney

'We just do not have the capacity to send people to help at the moment,' a Queensland Fire and Emergency Service spokesman said.

'In fact, we may have to seek help from other states if conditions worsen in Queensland.'

Conditions are also worsening at Currowan, on the NSW South Coast, where at 3pm a fire was upgraded to watch and act stage.

A firefighter wets down the roof of a property at Tahmoor as the enormous blaze approaches

Balmoral, 150 kilometres south of Sydney, has been one of the worst hit towns in Thursday fires

Earlier on Thursday, Ms Berejiklian declared a state of emergency, as temperatures in Sydney's far west hit 45C and 39C in Sydney's CBD.

There are concerns the Gospers Mountain fire, ravaging the northern end of the Blue Mountains National Park, could meet the Green Wattle Creek blaze to the south.

Firefighters battled in vain to stop the fire from jumping the Bells Line of Road at Berambing - which runs east to west through the national park.

An RFS member assesses the extent of the fire as he tries desperately to save a property in the NSW Blue Mountains

'It roared over the road, destroying power lines and cutting the various Fire Brigade resources in half stuck on either side of the fire,' The Sydney Morning Herald reported from the scene.

The Blue Mountains Line has also been closed in its outer-western stretch between Lithgow and Mount Victoria as a fire threatens the rail corridor in between the two stations at Bell.

Those in the town of Bilpin, meanwhile, are bracing for the fire to reach their homes by this evening.

The New South Wales Rural Fire Service said Thursday's horrendous conditions will be amplified by volatile winds sweeping through the area.

With central Sydney again choking in smoke, NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian declared a state of emergency on Thursday morning for the next seven days.

During a press conference, she said the 'decision to declare a state of emergency is not taken lightly.

An air tanker drops water on the fire at Bargo south-west of Campbelltown, where residents have been told its too late to leave

NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian declared a state of emergency earlier on Thursday, ahead of what was predicted to be one of the most dangerous bushfire days in the state's history

With dozens of properties now lost in the fire, firefighters have turned their focus to protecting humans and livestock

On a day where temperatures were forecast to hit 45C, winds in the Blue Mountains reached 100km/h

'You only declare states of emergency when it's absolutely necessary and on expert advice from commissioners.'

It is the second state of emergency she has declared since the start of this year's horror bushfire season. Six people have died and more than 800 homes have been lost.

Ms Berejiklian said they weren't expecting conditions to be as catastrophic as they were during the previous state of emergency on November 11.

Prior to the November 11 declaration, NSW had not faced a state of emergency since October 2013.

The announcement relinquishes decision making powers from the NSW government and allows Commissioner Fitzsimmons more control over his team of firefighters.

For the next seven days during the state of emergency, he has the ability to control and coordinate the allocation of government resources, close roads and evacuate residents.

A bushfire burns along the Old Hume Highway near the town of Tahmoor, south of Sydney, on Thursday afternoon

Pictured: Bushfires ravage Bells Line of Road at Mt Wilson in the Blue Mountains

Pictured: The out-of-control Green Wattle Creek bushfire burning near Braddocks Rd, Werombi, on December 5

This marks just the fifth state of emergency declared since 2006.

The floods in 2012, both in Queensland and NSW, warranted an emergency warning, as did bushfires in October 2013.

Other natural disasters, including the Black Saturday bushfires in 2009, didn't result in an emergency warning.

At midday on Thursday, north-westerly 40kmh winds are expected to sweep the Gospers Mountain blaze in the path of the Green Wattle Creek fire.

By 2pm - when the sweltering heat is predicted to be at its worst - both fires will be pushed towards Sydney by westerly winds.

If the blazes join, already fatigued firefighters will face their toughest test yet in what has been a devastating bushfire season so far.

The Sydney Opera House is seen as commuters ride the Manly Ferry during a day of predicted hot weather in Sydney

Last week the two fires were about 25km apart, a gap which had closed to 14km by Wednesday night.

The Bureau of Meteorology's Neil Bennett said a 'dome' of hot air was over the country on Thursday and Great Sydney, where the fires are raging, will hit 45C.

'There is a significant burst of heat, grading from the coast to the Western Plains, so we would be looking at temperatures of 40C for the CBD,' he told the ABC.

'As we move out towards Parramatta we're looking at 42C.

'Once you get to the foothills out towards Penrith you're looking at temperatures of 45C.'

What does a state of emergency mean? Declaring a state of emergency relinquishes decision making powers from the NSW government and allows RFS Commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons more control over his team of firefighters. For the next seven days during the state of emergency, can now control and coordinate the allocation of government resources, close roads and evacuate residents. Ms Fitzsimmons now has the ability to: Control and coordinate the allocation of government resources Evacuate people from property within declared areas Close roads and thoroughfares to traffic Pull down or shore up infrastructure at risk of collapse Shut down utilities in the declared area including electricity, gas, oil and water Enter or take possession of property for emergency response NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian held a press conference held on Thursday morning, where she said the 'decision to declare a state of emergency is not taken lightly. 'You only declare states of emergency when it's absolutely necessary and on expert advice from commissioners.' It is the second state of emergency she has declared since the start of this year's horror bushfire season, which has seen six people die and more than 800 homes lost. Ms Berejiklian said they weren't expecting conditions to be as catastrophic as they were during the previous state of emergency.

The sun shines through bushfire haze next to the Sydney Opera House on Thursday morning

Passengers ride the Manly ferry during hot weather in Sydney on Thursday morning

Pictured: Plumes of smoke fill the air and linger above the Blue Mountains

An anonymous firefighter with more than two decades experience told The Daily Telegraph the Green Wattle Creek fire could have been controlled two weeks ago - but crews were moved elsewhere.

He said management told the firefighters the blaze was 'too dangerous', but those on the frontline thought they could have extinguished the flames.

'The senior fire fighters like those guys are used to going into these locations, they are used to putting themselves on the line,' he said.

'They didn't think it was too dangerous. They told me they had it pretty well rounded up but they were told to leave.'

At 11.30pm on Wednesday, the huge Gospers Mountain blaze north-west of Sydney, was at Watch and Act with all other fires at the Advice alert level.

There were 96 bush or grass fires burning across NSW, with 53 not yet contained.

NSW RFS said: 'More than 2,000 personnel are currently working overnight to slow the spread of fire before deteriorating conditions tomorrow.'

The Gospers Mountain fire, burning in the Wollemi National Park area in the northern Blue Mountains, is more than 415,000 hectares in size and raging out of control

A firefighter works at the scene of the Gospers Mountain bushfire on December 15

THE FORECAST IN YOUR CITY SYDNEY THURSDAY: Min 19. Max 35. Cloudy. FRIDAY: Min 20. Max 26. Cloudy. SATURDAY: Min 21. Max 37. Sunny. SUNDAY: Min 20. Max 24. Cloudy. BRISBANE: THURSDAY: Min 20. Max 30. Sunny. FRIDAY: Min 19. Max 33. Sunny. SATURDAY: Min 21. Max 33. Sunny. SUNDAY: Min 27. Max 35. Sunny. ADELAIDE: THURSDAY: Min 23. Max 41. Sunny. FRIDAY: Min 28. Max 44. Sunny. SATURDAY: Min 18. Max 25. Cloudy. SUNDAY: Min 12. Max 28. Cloudy. PERTH: THURSDAY: Min 19. Max 26. Cloudy. FRIDAY: Min 17. Max 26. Sunny. SATURDAY: Min. 17. Max 34. Sunny. SUNDAY: Min. 20. Max 30. Sunny. MELBOURNE: THURSDAY: Min 19. Max 23. Cloudy. FRIDAY: Min 14. Max 41. Sunny. SATURDAY: Min 19. Max 23. Cloudy. SUNDAY: Min 12. Max 20. Cloudy. CANBERRA: THURSDAY: Min 18. Max 41. Sunny. FRIDAY: Min 14. Max 39. Sunny. SATURDAY: Min 17. Max 43. Sunny. SUNDAY: Min 15. Max 33. Sunny. DARWIN: THURSDAY: Min 26. Max 36. Showers. FRIDAY: Min 27. Max 35. Showers. SATURDAY: Min 26. Max 35. Cloudy. SUNDAY: Min 26. Max 34. Cloudy. HOBART: THURSDAY: Min 15. Max 23. Cloudy. FRIDAY: Min 10. Max 33. Sunny. SATURDAY: Min 17. Max 23. Cloudy. SUNDAY: Min 10. Max 20. Cloudy. Source: Bureau of Meteorology

An extreme fire danger rating was issued for the Greater Sydney, the Illawarra and Southern Ranges areas, while all other areas are rated at high, very high or severe levels.

Sydney, Adelaide and Canberra were all forecast to surpass 40C on Thursday, following the hottest Australian day on record on Tuesday.

The average national temperature climbed to 40.9C eclipsing the record of 40.3C set in January 2013.

This record could be broken again with intense heat expected across most of Australia on Thursday and Friday.

An extreme fire danger rating has been issued for the Greater Sydney, Illawarra/Shoalhaven and Southern Ranges areas, while all other areas are rated at high, very high or severe levels. 'Any fire that starts and takes hold will threaten lives and homes,' NSW RFS said. Pictured: Smoke from Gospers Mountain fire

'Conditions will be dangerous due to high temperatures, strong and gusty winds and low humidity,' the NSW RFS said ahead of Thursday with this 'prediction' map

Premier Gladys Berejiklian warned the state would face significant bushfire risk on Thursday and Saturday with the potential for 'exceedingly concerning' winds to blow embers well ahead of fire fronts.

'Not only are we going to experience very high temperatures on Thursday and Saturday but there's the exceedingly concerning wind conditions,' she said on Wednesday.

'We're going to have a number of wind fronts escalating the fuel, the fires burning, and the potential to have spot fires and embers travelling very long distances.

'It's going to mean very unpredictable fire conditions.'

Premier Gladys Berejiklian warned the state would face significant bushfire risk on Thursday and Saturday with the potential for 'exceedingly concerning' winds to blow embers well ahead of fire fronts. Pictured: Green Wattle Creek bushfire

At midday on Thursday, northwesterly winds will sweep the Gospers Mountain blaze in the path of the Green Wattle Creek fire at windspeeds of 40km/h. By 2pm - when the sweltering heat is expected to be at its worse - both fires will be pushed towards Sydney. Pictured: Gospers Mountain fire

Commissioner Fitzsimmons said fire behaviour is forecast to be 'erratic and significant' due to the volatile winds blowing across the state.

'The heat will start moving through NSW on Thursday and conditions will worsen on Saturday,' Mr Fitzsimmons told reporters.

'We can expect the winds to be up and conditions to be at their peak very early in the morning and we'll have high sustained fire dangers for something like 15 hours.'

A statewide total fire ban was in place from Wednesday morning through to midnight on Saturday.

Six people have died and some 768 homes have been destroyed by bushfires this fire season. Pictured: Gospers Mountain fire

The Gospers Mountain blaze (pictured) destroyed up to 20 buildings in the upper Blue Mountains on the weekend after firefighters lost control of a backburning operation and the fire jumped containment lines

Emergency Services Minister David Elliott said complacency is the biggest threat.

'Just because you haven't seen a fire at the end of your street, just because you can't see smoke in your suburb, doesn't mean that you are not at risk,' he told reporters.

There will be 3000 firefighters working on Saturday, the minister said.

The Gospers Mountain blaze destroyed up to 20 buildings in the upper Blue Mountains on the weekend after firefighters lost control of a backburning operation and the fire jumped containment lines.