A man accused of trying to steal a car outside a gym in Sydney's west was circled by witnesses and then violently pinned down while his friends sped away in a car.

Footage of the violent citizen's arrest, believed to have taken place in Auburn in Sydney's west, was shared to Facebook on Thursday.

'Moral of the story: don't try and steal someone's car when you have a bunch of Lebanese (people) around, it won't end well for you,' the video was captioned.

The accused car thief is seen surrounded by a group of about 11 men on the floor as someone jumps into the vehicle, and the driver slowly accelerates in an attempt to escape.

The driver stops when a buff man with tattoos running down his arm approaches the driver's window and throws three violent punches before the car takes off at speed.

He then turns his attention to the man who was left behind before throwing him against the boot of a car with his hands grabbing the collar of his shirt.

'Hard workers, hard workers, hard workers you junkie dog,' the man could be heard saying.

He repeats himself one more time before throwing a punch in the man's face causing him to the fall to the floor.

The man attempts to escape as someone calls out to 'hold him down' when a man in an orange shirt grabs his arms and pulls him back.

Another man in the background is heard demanding someone call the police.

The man (middle) was thrown against a car as he is held up by the collar of his shirt before he is punched

'Hard workers, hard workers, hard workers you junkie dog,' the man holding him could be heard saying

He attempts to escape but is held down once again with the buff man asking what his problem is

'Where are you going?' someone could be heard asking as they kept tugging on his hand.

'Let go bro I just want to chill for a minute,' the accused said.

He is then thrown onto the ground with one hand and foot being held, and the buff man on top of him asking him what his problem is.

The man is left on the floor as others ask him where his mates are to which he responded that he didn't know.

Someone else then kicks the man again, while another kicks him near the head as he cowers away.

The video has racked up more than 4,400 views in three hours with social media users tagging their friends supporting the men's actions.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted NSW Police for comment.