The widow of the late Rep. John Dingell told President Trump he 'brought me down in a way you can never imagine' after he mocked her during a campaign rally and implied that her late husband was in hell.

Rep. Debbie Dingell, who succeeded her husband – who was the longest serving member of Congress – responded to the president after he affected her voice and impersonated her during a campaign rally.

Trump fumed about how Dingell voted to impeach him even though he authorized funeral proceedings for Dingell, whose body lay in state at the Capitol. Trump also allowed flags to fly at half staff at federal buildings to honor John Dingell, who was a leading voice on environmental and health care issues for generations.

President Donald Trump mocked Rep. Debbie Dingell of Michigan during his impeachment night speech, saying he gave full military honors to her late husband

'Mr. President, let’s set politics aside. My husband earned all his accolades after a lifetime of service. I’m preparing for the first holiday season without the man I love. You brought me down in a way you can never imagine and your hurtful words just made my healing much harder,' wrote Debbie Dingell, a former lobbyist who succeeded him in office.

Trump went after Dingell at a campaign rally that got going just as Democrats voted to impeach him, settling scores on a variety of fronts, including the Dingell funeral.

He told his crowd of supporters in Battle Creek, Michigan – in Dingell's home state: 'She calls me up, ‘That’s the nicest thing that ever happened. Thank you so much. John would be so thrilled. He’s looking down. He’d be so thrilled,' Trump said, impersonating Debbie Dingell while he spoke. 'Thank you so much, sir,' he described her as saying.

'That's okay don't worry about it,' Trump described himself as responding magnanimously.

John Dingell served in Congress for 59 years, succeeding his father. His wife Debbie later was elected to his seat

Representative Debbie Dingell (D-MI) speaks at a Democratic press conference on the U.S. Senator Mitch McConnell's (R-KY) legislative agenda

Debbie Dingell defended her husband on Twitter

'You brought me down in a way you can never imagine and your hurtful words just made my healing much harder,' said Dingell

Trump complained that Dingell backed two articles of impeachment even though he lowered flags to half staff for her late husband, the longest serving House member

Rep. Debbie Dingell (D-MI), former U.S. President Bill Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton attend the funeral service for former U.S. Rep. John Dingell at Holy Trinity Catholic Church in Washington, U.S., February 14, 2019

Rep. Debbie Dingell, D-Mich., center, accompanied by former President Bill Clinton and former first lady Hillary Clinton follows the flag-draped casket of former Rep. John Dingell after a funeral service at Holy Trinity Catholic Church, Thursday, Feb. 14, 2019, in Washington. Dingell, the longest-serving member of Congress in American history who mastered legislative deal-making and was fiercely protective of Detroit's auto industry, has died at age 92

'Maybe he’s looking up, I don’t know, but let’s assume he’s looking down,' Trump quipped, joking that perhaps Dingell was in hell. Dingell died in February.

By going after Dingell, Trump was revisiting a grievance. He tweeted four days ago: 'The last time I spoke to Debbie Dingell was her call thanking me for granting top memorial and funeral service honors for her then just departed husband, long-time Congressman John Dingell. Now I watch her ripping me as part of the Democrats Impeachment Hoax. Really pathetic!'