Parents of sick children who are spending the holidays in hospital have thanked nurses and medical staff for bringing Christmas spirit to the wards.

Alisha Gilbert and her husband rushed their 16-month-old son Remy to Sutherland Hospital in south Sydney last week after he fell down a flight of stairs.

The toddler was vomiting and had a concussion, but Ms Gilbert told Daily Mail Australia hospital staff went above and beyond to lighten the mood.

She shared a silhouette photo of her toddler and husband walking down a corridor decked out with festive decorations, including tinsel hanging from the roof and ceramic Santa's on the counters.

Alisha Gilbert shared this photo of her husband and toddler Remy in the hospital corridor - which was decked out with Christmas decorations

Remy had to spend a few hours in the hospital after he suffered a concussion from a fall down a flight of stairs. He was given bubbles to play with and 'doted on' by staff

Ms Gilbert said their trip to the pediatric emergency department was positive as it could be, given the circumstances.

'The nurses were amazing,' she said. 'They went above to get a smile on all the kids faces'.

'They had a beautiful Christmas tree in the ward and decorations throughout.'

She said the night nurses even brought bubbles in to play with some of the children and they all had a 'bubble party' together to brighten the mood.

'They just doted on all the kids... its something so simple and cheap but really cheers the kids up,' Ms Gilbert told Daily Mail Australia

'They just doted on all the kids... its something so simple and cheap but really cheers the kids up.

'Even two ambulance staff arrived with a little baby who was sick and wanted a cuddle from her before they left,' she said.

The mother said she was 'very grateful' for all the staff involved, and one of the nurses at the hospital responded to a post she put online thanking her for her gratitude.

'I'll pass this on to those in ED. Thanks for your thanks, its appreciated,' the nurse said.

Her initial post received dozens of comments - many from other patients who said they had also experienced incredible service from staff at Sutherland Hospital.