She's finally found happiness with boyfriend Paul Solomons, recently admitting that what they have is 'true love.'

And now Kylie Minogue, 51, has brought her beau home to Australia for Christmas.

On Tuesday, the two lovebirds were spotted going for a stroll in her hometown of Melbourne.

All the Lovers! Makeup free Kylie Minogue cut a casual figure in a flowing dress on Tuesday as she enjoyed a stroll in her hometown of Melbourne with boyfriend Paul Solomons

Going makeup free, the Australian hit maker stunned in a flowing dress as Paul, 44, puffed on a vape.

Kylie's frock featured a maroon and white print and long sleeves.

The pint-sized star teamed the ensemble with a beige hat and glasses, and carried a plum handbag.

Paul, who is the creative director of British GQ, also cut a casual figure in blue jeans and a blue plaid shirt, which he teamed with white runners.

Relaxed: Going makeup free, the Australian hit maker stunned in a flowing dress as Paul, 44, puffed on a vape

Home for the holidays? Although based in London, Kylie's parents Ronald and Carol live in Melbourne, as well as her famous sister Dannii Minogue

All in the details! The pint-sized star teamed her dress with a beige hat and glasses and carried a plum handbag

Although based in London, Kylie's parents Ronald and Carol live in Melbourne, as well as her famous sister Dannii Minogue.

It is believed that the All the Lovers singer will be spending Christmas in Australia with her beau and family.

In June, Kylie gushed about Paul, who she has been dating for over a year.

Smitten! In June, Kylie gushed about Paul, who she has been dating for over a year

Happy: The star revealed she's found 'true love' and admitted she feels 'thankful and lucky' to be in a relationship with such a caring man

The star revealed she had found 'true love' and admitted she feels 'thankful and lucky' to be in a relationship with such a caring man.

Kylie told The Daily Mirror: 'Who says you can't be soppy and romantic later in life? Particularly when you find a good and true love.'

'I feel even more thankful and lucky that I have this in my life now... I'm really being taken care of.'

In November last year, Kylie told Jonathan Ross that she was surprised to find love again after the end of her relationship with ex-fiancé, British actor Joshua Sasse, 32.

She confessed: 'It's going great, it's fabulous. Just when you think that ''will it ever happen?''… it came and surprised me.'