Residents of a bayside town in the grip of drunken violence have warned of a 'Cronulla-style' riot if police do not deal with the problem.

Chelsea - about 30km southeast of Melbourne on Port Phillip Bay - descended into chaos on Wednesday night, with police pepper-spraying a bus load of youths and riot police called in as reinforcement.

As police made a highly visible presence on the streets of Chelsea on Thursday, angry and scared residents have told Daily Mail Australia they are fed up with the violence.

A police officer talks to a bus driver in Chelsea a night after youths ran riot. Police are out in force in the bayside suburb amid fears of escalating violence

Youths gather on Chelsea beach when the weather gets hot. They also drink loads of booze and start fighting among themselves. Residents have warned they will deal with the problem themselves if police do not

Jet ski riders have become the target of the youths in recent times. Usually they behave themselves, but when the sun sets and the booze kicks in, they turn on each other and anyone who gets in their way

'The police would want to clean it up quick smart, because if they don't, the locals will deal with it,' one waterside resident said.

'We're fed up with it. It'll be Cronulla.'

Fighting broke out aboard the public bus in front of Chelsea station shortly after 10pm on Tuesday night.

The stop is just metres away from the police station.

Minutes earlier, the group of about 50 youths had gathered at the beachside station and were met by about 30 Victoria Police officers.

Footage of the fracas has disgusted a community sadly accustomed to the summer violence.

Police were forced to use pepper spray to control the unruly youths. The drunken mobs have become a growing concern for police and residents in the bayside suburb

The bus where chaos broke out on Wednesday night. It is believed the drunken youths were told to get off the bus and didn't like it

Locals have told Daily Mail Australia mobs of African youths gather at the family-friendly beach when the heats soar into the high 30s.

One resident compared the pilgrimage to the behaviour of the fictional Predator character, which hunted its prey only during the hottest of summers.

'They only come down when it's scorching hot. Like over 35 degrees,' the resident said.

Like all who spoke to Daily Mail Australia, the man did not wish to be named due to fear of reprisals from the drunken thugs.

Another resident claimed the groups of young Africans are feared due to opportunistic and often violent snatch and grab crimes they carry out on the beach.

'I had a mate get his face punched in by one of them when he refused to hand over his phone,' he said.

A resident stands at the point where youths often gather and get up to no good. The beach is popular with African youths when the weather gets extremely hot

Chelsea beach is a gathering point for families due to its pristine and safe waters. It is also the gathering point for youths from all walks of life

Alcohol is banned from the section of Chelsea beach, but the warnings are being ignored by scores of drunken youths who cause trouble in the bayside suburb

The City of Kingston has been forced to remove trees from the troublesome area of the beach after youths used the cover to avoid police detection.

'They were just getting in behind the trees on the dunes and having sex,' a resident said. 'They still go for it, but at least the police can spot them a bit easier now.'

The youths are known to behave along the stretch of beach during daylight hours, but begin to fight among themselves as the night draws in and the booze kicks in.

Wednesday's violence follows on from a similar drunken confrontation with police on Monday last week.

One shop owner told Daily Mail Australia they were terrified of the angry mobs, but felt powerless to do anything about it.

A young lady enjoys a cool dip at Chelsea beach. The beach is thriving with young people enjoying its tranquil waters

Chelsea beach is becoming a war zone at night when drunken youths congregate and start fighting among themselves

Residents along the stretch of beach were seen cleaning the beach and adjoining alleyways from mounds of discarded alcohol containers on Tuesday morning.

The youths are believed to buy their booze from a nearby liquor shop.

Police sources have told Daily Mail Australia that they are working hard to stop the youths from getting to the beach from the source.

'They're coming in from Springvale (about 10kms away) on the bus,' the source said.

On Thursday, transit police were seen talking to bus drivers at Chelsea station, where the violence took place a night earlier.

Undercover police are part of the fight against the thugs and have been planted on buses along the troublesome route.

Police hope to kick troublemakers off the buses before they get on them, targeting those without tickets and others who are drunk.

On Thursday, Deputy Commissioner Shane Patton said a group of African youths known to police were becoming 'unruly' on the beach and moved on.

'We used our move-on powers and directed them to move out,' he said.

A fight then broke out on a bus, before capsicum spray was used to defuse the violence.

Mr Patton said the youths were not committing any offences.

'There were thousands of people out on the beaches last night,' he said.

'The reporting today would give an impression it was out of control, actually it’s quite the contrary.

Police talk to locals a stone's throw from Chelsea police station. It was the sight where police were forced into a hostile confrontation with drunken youths

Police are gearing up for more trouble on Friday as the temperatures in Melbourne soar to 43 degree celsius

'We had our units out there. They were becoming unruly, disturbing people on the beach. They weren’t committing any offences.

'We used our move-on powers and directed them to move out.

'A small group of those, about 20, took the train. Another 30 were out on the bus. A police officer was on there maintaining them to keep calm. As a result, there was a fight between two of those people. One was being assaulted. The police officer deployed spray, as a result of that numerous people on the bus received secondary spray.

'There wasn’t offending on the beach, that was unfortunate a fight broke out, but it doesn’t mean it was unsafe on the beaches.'

But residents told Daily Mail Australia the hordes have become increasingly violent over recent years.

One man said a drunken man tossed a brick through his home's window after lobbing in his yard and causing trouble.

The beach is popular among all walks of life and particularly families due to its sand bars, which allow kids to frolic in the small waves.

Jet skiers have been targeted by the youths, with fears among locals that things are about to get wildly out of control.

'Mostly they're down there just having a good time - kicking the soccer ball around or whatever. But when it gets late, and some of the bigger blokes turn up, the trouble kicks up,' a resident said.

'They fight over girls and then they fight among each other.'