Western United insist they are prepared for a Western Sydney Wanderers side with their backs to the wall in Friday's A-League clash at Bankwest Stadium.

Western Sydney have lost their past five games and coach Markus Babbel this week rejected reports of a rift between he and assistant Jean-Paul de Marigny.

But United coach Mark Rudan said his side would also take a "siege mentality" into the clash and avoid focusing on their opponent's woes.

"The focus has really been on us. Everybody knows they're in a difficult position right now, their confidence is low but the focus is on us," he said on Thursday.

"We need to go in there with a real siege mentality mindset ourselves.

"We are away from home for the second week in a row in what is a beautiful stadium to play football and it's important the players enjoy the atmosphere.

"We worked on different solutions and again, the focus is on us.

"We do understand their (Western Sydney's) predicament - obviously they're in the position they're in - but we've worked really hard with the ball because the last two weeks we need to be better with the ball so the constant theme throughout the week has been finding solutions to break their press."

After conceding possession against Brisbane Roar, Rudan said his side would look to control the ball on Friday night.

United handed the Wanderers their first loss of the season in round five - and they have lost every game since.

Babbel said his side needed to return to the gritty approach that defined their opening three wins.

"It wasn't the best style of football but we were fighting for every single centimetre on the pitch, if someone did a mistake the other one was there to help him out so now we have to come back to exactly this way again," he said.

"It's not a big thing in my eyes but we have to do it. We have no time anymore.

"We have a great opportunity on Friday and the only proof is on the pitch. If we do what we want to do I'm very optimistic we can hurt them.

"Otherwise, they're a top side. They have a lot of experienced guys there and if we're not doing right they can hurt us."

STATS THAT MATTER

* The Wanderers have lost their past five A-League games on the bounce, one shy of the club record six consecutive losses set in January 2019.

* United have won their past two A-League games on the spin - they have never previously won more in succession in the competition.

* The Wanderers have had just 46 per cent possession throughout their games so far this season, the lowest of any team in the competition.

Stats provided by Opta