The activists were protesting against inhumane catching and treatment of fish

Signs that read 'stop floundering, go vegan' and 'fish feel pain' were set up

The activists were dressed in blue body paint and fake bloodied fish hooks

Vegan protesters have dressed up as dead fish on Barangaroo Wharf to protest Sydney Fish Market's upcoming pre-Christmas seafood marathon.

Wrapped in fish netting, the protesters laid down on a blue tarpaulin surrounded by fake fish.

The group were dressed in head-to-toe in blue body paint and fake bloodied fish hooks attached to their mouths.

The activists were accompanied by signs that read 'stop floundering, go vegan' and 'fish feel pain'.

The PETA Activists played dead on a blue tarpaulin on Barangaroo Wharf on Wednesday to protest Sydney Fish Market's upcoming Seafood Marathon

The group were dressed in head-to-toe in blue body paint and fake bloodied fish hooks attached to their mouths

'The 'festive frenzy' is a 36-hour representation of the hell on Earth endured by fish who are netted, dragged out of their aquatic homes, and cut open, all so that their flesh can be sold to consumers,' PETA spokesperson Emily Rice said.

'This festive period, PETA is urging everyone to extend the season of good will to fish and all other animals by choosing delicious vegan Christmas meals.'

The protest comes just days before next Monday's pre-Christmas annual 36-hour seafood marathon at Sydney Fish Market.

Ms Rice said the activists were taking a stance against fish suffering in captivity, and to argue marine life also have feelings.

The activists were taking a stance against fish suffering in captivity, and to argue marine life also have feelings

'Half of all fish consumed worldwide each year spend their lives in cramped, filthy enclosures on commercial fish farms, where they commonly suffer from parasite infections and diseases or sustain debilitating injuries,' she said.

'Wild-caught fish slowly suffocate or are crushed to death when they're dragged from the oceans in huge nets... and the throats and stomachs of those who survive are cut open on the decks of fishing boats.'

'PETA notes that fish feel pain, have unique personalities, can recognise human faces, and can retain memories and think ahead.'

But the colourful protest wasn't met with a positive response from non-vegans, who took to Facebook to slam the activists.

'And here’s me wondering what they were going to whinge about next what happened to the poor horsies or the poor moo cows? Nooooo...now it’s the poor shell fish and mussels,' one man wrote.

'If you dropkicks at PETA and your fellow vegans care so much about animals, don't whinge about the 80 thousand tons of floating garbage, go clean it up, but you won't!,' said another.

'These people are brain dead.'