It's not hard to see why Kate Langbroek has extended her family's 'gap year' in Italy.

The 54-year-old radio star, husband Peter Lewis and their four children appear to be having the time of their lives as they prepare for their first Christmas in Bologna.

In the past few days, Kate has been getting into the festive spirit by posing up a storm in the snow, enjoying cocktails with friends and mingling with locals.

Holiday time! Kate Langbroek (pictured), husband Peter Lewis and their four children appear to be having the time of their life as they prepare for their first Christmas in Bologna, Italy

On Wednesday, Kate shared several pictures decorating her Italian cottage with traditional displays in preparation for December 25.

'Xmas,' wrote Kate alongside one image of an arrangement of Christmas flowers.

Her rustic dining table featured a miniature tree in the centre, with candles, cakes and a steaming teapot all perfectly laid out.

Christmas cheer! On Wednesday, Kate shared several pictures decorating her Italian cottage with traditional displays in preparation for December 25

Earlier in the week, Kate shared a picture posing in a snow covered landscape.

The festive snap looked like something straight out of a movie, with Kate joking: 'Here I am in glorious winter snow... I couldn't be any luckier'.

She later uploaded a hilarious snap in a local restaurant, while holding the Italian chef's huge loaf of panettone bread.

Stocking up? Kate later uploaded a hilarious snap in a local restaurant, while holding the Italian chef's huge loaf of panettone bread

Ready for Christmas morning? Kate shared this breakfast snap of her children this week

Over the weekend, Kate celebrated her husband Pete's birthday.

The couple visited a friend's recently opened cocktail bar, and started their boozy festive celebrations early, saying they were having 'the best' time.

Kate and her family moved to Bologna in January, initially planning to stay for 12 months, but have since extended their 'gap year'.

Earlier this year, Kate revealed that her move overseas was inspired by son Lewis' battle with leukaemia.

Party time! Over the weekend, Kate celebrated her husband Pete's birthday with friends at a local cocktail bar

'I couldn't be any luckier': Kate and her family moved to Italy in January on a 'gap year' - but have now extended their stay into 2020

Speaking to Stellar in May, Kate said: 'Lewis was very sick when he was little and he could've died.'

The popular personality explained that Lewis battled leukaemia for three and a half years before reaching full recovery in 2013.

'Maybe that makes you feel differently about the opportunities you have in life, and the biggest opportunity is the life itself that you have,' Kate added.

Ed Kavalee will permanently replace Kate Langbroek on 2Day FM's Hughesy and Kate in 2020, but she will 'regularly call in to the show'.