Toyota has unveiled the next evolution of its remote-controlled Android, the T-HR3.

According to the company, the new and improved bot, which is controlled by a person wearing a headset and wiring on his or her arms and hands, is now has faster and smoother finger movements due to a lighter and easier controlling device.

The bot can mimic the actions of a human operator, allowing it to do everything from balancing on one foot to squeezing a balloon without popping it.

Toyota Motor Corp.'s human-shaped T-HR3 robot (pictured above) is remotely controlled by its staff member during a demonstration in Tokyo.

In the demonstration, a person wearing a headset and wiring made the robot move in exactly the same way he was moving, waving or making dance-like movements, as sensors sent computerized signals to the robot of what they detected as human movements.

According to Toyota, the system relies on a remote control ‘Master Maneuvering System’, which uses an array of sensors to directly communicate physical movements to the robot.

The remote control system also uses a head mount display – in this case, an HTC Vive virtual reality headset.

THE T-HR3 ROBOT Toyota unveiled the next installment of its humanoid robot, T-HR3. The bot connects to a human operator using a Master Maneuvering System and a virtual reality headset. Each joint is connected to the chair through motors and the torque sensors. This communicates physical actions to the robot; when the operator moves their hands, the robot will do the same. In the VR headset, the operator can see exactly what the robot is doing in real-time.

With this, the operator can see exactly what the robot is seeing in 3D and real-time, to enable more precise actions.

The creators say this could be used to assist people at home, hospitals, or one day, even in space. It also might allow people to feel like they´re participating in events they can´t actually attend.

In a recent demonstration in Tokyo, a person wearing a headset and wiring made the robot move in exactly the same way he was moving, waving or making dance-like movements.

Smaller robots that look like the mascots for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics were controlled during the demonstration in the same way.

Smaller robots that look like the mascots for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics were controlled in the same way. Japanese automaker Toyota is an Olympic sponsor

Toyota engineer Tomohisa Moridaira said human-shaped robots can be controlled intuitively because all the person operating it has to do is move naturally.

The challenge, however, still lies in securing reliable and speedy telecommunications connections so that signals are accurately relayed from the human to the robot, said Moridaira.