Donald Trump slammed a heckler at a rally in Michigan as a 'real slob' then blasted security personnel for not removing the outspoken protester from the arena more quickly.

On Wednesday the president spoke before a packed arena in Battle Creek, Michigan but was interrupted by a group of protesters who booed him and helped up a banner that read 'Don the Con You're FIRED'.

Trump bellowed 'Get her out of here!' as security officers rushed to escort a woman in a neon orange shirt and hat out of the Kellogg Arena, and she flipped off the president as she was ushered out.

Trump then reprimanded security officers for not removing her fast enough.

'This is one person who made a horrible gesture only because the security man let her have so much time,' Trumps said Wednesday. 'And usually, I have to say, the police do an incredible job. Incredible. They do it so quickly.'

A heckler at a Trump rally in Michigan was thrown out of the arena as the president shouted 'Get her out of here!' on Wednesday night

Donald Trump was speaking at Kellogg Arena in Battle Creek, Michigan before a crowd of hundreds when he was heckled in his speech by protesters who carried a banner that said 'Don the Con You're FIRED'

Trump supporters heckled the protesters back and eventually security guards arrived to escort the woman in orange away

As the arena filled with boos Trump tried to keep his cool, laughing it off and saying 'That's all right'.

But as the woman was escorted out, Trump dug into her.

'There's a real slob. Wait a minute. She’ll get hell when she gets back home with mom. ... She screams a little bit, and you know what I like to do to avoid them,' he said, before criticizing the arena's security.

'And I'll tell you another thing, I don’t know who the security company is, but the police came up, but they want to be so politically correct. So they don’t grab her wrist lightly and get her out! They say, "Oh, will you please come? Please come with me. Sir. Ma’am. Will you" — and then she gives the guy the finger,' he said.

'You gotta get a little bit stronger than that, folks,' he added.

The female protester did not go easily, however, and as she walked out she raised a middle finger to the crowd

Looking at Trump she raised both middle fingers and shouted 'F**k you' to the president

The crowd got riled up as the protester was escorted out and began chanting 'USA! USA! USA!'

Trump's criticism of the security team comes after he called out the security personnel at another rally in Pennsylvania over how long it took them to remove a protester.

While Trump was speaking to his supporters in the Midwest, he was being formally impeached during a tense House vote on Capitol Hill.

But Trump trying to play off the historic impeachment vote at the rally, where boasted that he didn't feel like he was being impeached.

He became the third president in history to be impeached, voted out on charges of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress.

'By the way, it doesn't really feel like we're being impeached,' Trump said in his speech at Kellogg Arena. 'The country is doing better than ever before. We've done nothing wrong.'

The Trump protester pictured above flipping the president off during the Merry Christmas Rally in Battle Creek, Michigan on Wednesday night

'Get her out of here!' the president bellowed at the podium. 'There's a slob, a real slob. She’ll get hell when she gets back home with mom,' Trump added

Trump supporters pictured at Trump's holiday rally Sunday evening

'He do-nothing Democrats, and they are do nothing, are declaring their deep hatred and disdain for American vote,' he said, calling the impeachment 'political suicide'.

'Have you seen my poll numbers in the last four weeks? They've been trying to impeach me since before I ran,' he added.

In the middle of his speech a staffer told trump that the impeachment vote was 229 House members in favor and 198 against.

'I'm the first person to ever get impeached and there's no crime!' Trump said.