Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sofia of Sweden have shared an adorable festive family photograph posing alongside their two young sons in matching outfits.

In the snap, which was posted on the royals' official Instagram page, Prince Carl, 40, and Princess Sofia, 35, can be seen cuddling up to their lookalike blonde children Alexander, 3, and Gabriel, 2, beside a Christmas tree at the Royal Palace of Stockholm.

While stylish Princess Sofia donned a cool tartan skirt with a simple black top for the occasion, she dressed her sons in matching festive red cardigans with smart white shirts and beige trousers.

Sharing the image online, the Swedish royals wrote in their native language: 'We wish you a wonderful and Merry Christmas from us!'

Prince Carl Philip, 40, and Princess Sofia of Sweden, 35, posed with their young children Alexander, 3, and Gabriel, 2, in the adorable family snap

The glamorous Princess Sofia could be seen beaming in the snap while enjoying a cuddle with her eldest son Alexander.

Meanwhile Prince Carl Philip looked his usual handsome self in a navy suit with a matching tie while holding the hand of their younger son Gabriel.

The family appeared overjoyed with festive spirit as they all grinned at the camera while posing in front of a Christmas trees.

Fans of the royal couple were quick to comment on the adorable picture, with many of them wishing them 'God Jul' - which means Merry Christmas in Swedish.

Sweden's real-life Prince Charming (right), broke the hearts of royal-watchers across the globe when he announced his engagement to former glamour model Sofia Hellqvist (left) in 2014

The photograph is similar to one shared last year of Prince Carl with eldest son Alexander, posing next to a similar Christmas tree in almost the exact same spot.

Students from the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences have a long-standing tradition of presenting the palace with the Christmas trees every year since the end of the 1960s.

In last year's adorable snap, Alexander wore a Christmas jumper, as well as a Santa hat as he helped his dad with Christmas trees.

This years celebration is the first for the family since Alexander and Gabriel were stripped off their royal status in October.

This year's photograph bears striking resemblance to last year, when Prince Carl Philip posed alongside Alexander in almost the exact same spot

The children, alongside Princess Madeleine's three children, will not be expected to perform royal duties as adults as they are not directly in line to the throne.

The five children will still be members of the royal family, but will not be referred to as His or Her Royal Highness and will not have access to taxpayer funds.

Carl-Philip is the second child of the king Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden and Queen Silvia.

This celebration marks the first since Alexander and Gabriel were stripped of their royal status in October (pictured, with Princess Sofia in August 2019)

The glamorous couple tied the knot in 2015 and share two-year-old son Prince Alexander, Duke of Södermanland, and one-year-old Prince Gabriel, Duke of Dalarna who are fifth and sixth in line to the Swedish throne.

Before marrying the prince, Sofia was a model and reality TV contestant. The pair dated for five years before walking down the aisle and live together in the upmarket Djurgården district of Stockholm.

Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sofia married in the royal palace's chapel, with the bride wearing a lace wedding dress created by local designer Ida Sjöstedt.