A young Iranian refugee was so desperate to get to work on time, it cost a Melbourne cyclist's life.

Mehdi Sameri, 20, left for his boss' house on July 24 after a bad sleep, stopping for a coffee.

Minutes later, the apprentice plumber fell asleep at the wheel, ran a red light and woke to a bang and the sight of cyclist Colin Waters' helmet hitting his windscreen.

As the 49-year-old lay dying on a Taylors Lake road, a panicked Sameri drove off.

When he told his boss what happened, he was driven back to the scene and then to a police station where he was arrested.

"It just breaks my heart, you know, I am so sorry. I wish I was dead instead of that person," Sameri told police.

On Thursday, Sameri cried as he was sentenced to 10 months in a youth prison, after pleading guilty to dangerous driving causing death and failing to stop.

"You knew you were tired, you stopped and had coffee but you pressed on to drive to the home of your employer, no doubt grateful for the opportunity that he had given to you," County Court Judge Paul Lacava said.

"You were probably anxious not to be seen as an employee who had to take a day off work or who could not be relied upon to arrive on time. That decision was fateful."

It "caused the death of a husband, father, son, sibling and friend who was adored by all who were privileged to have made his acquaintance," the judge said.

Judge Lacava, however, took into account Sameri's "profound" remorse and troubled background.

Sameri fled Iran as a young boy with his brother, coming to Australia by boat and put in immigration detention.

He promised his parents he would make something of himself but they died in Iran within a year of him settling in Melbourne.

Just eight days before the fatal crash, Sameri received notification he would become an Australian citizen.

He may not be deported as his sentence is under 12 months.

But Mr Waters' wife Paula, his childhood sweetheart of 27 years, and son Kyle might now be sent back to the UK.

Mr Waters was working as a Metro Trains contractor on a temporary skilled visa which included his family.

His brother Steve told reporters the family have not heard from immigration about their status.

"Mr Sameri has been given leniency so he can at least stay in the country, which is his right, we absolutely accept that, but ultimately Paula and Kyle are at risk of being deported and no consideration has been given to them at all," he said.

Mr Waters' eldest son Kieran, who is in Australia on a different visa to his family, said his father was the greatest man he had ever known.

"Just always think before you get behind the wheel, in any circumstance, that split second can change lives and this has proven that," he said.