It has been a difficult year for Apollo Jackson and his former Love Island star girlfriend Edyn 'Mac' Mackney.

But now the couple finally have something to celebrate - their one-year anniversary.

On Wednesday, Edyn shared a photo of the pair celebrating the milestone moment on Instagram.

'Love doing life with you': The Bachelorette's Apollo Jackson has celebrated his one-year anniversary with Love Island star Edyn 'Mac' Mackney

She captioned the post: 'We have no idea when our actual anniversary is but decided to celebrate last night.'

Before adding: 'God damn I love doing life with you Apollo. Happy one year! Bring on 2020, so many adventures ahead.'

For their night out, the reality star wore a black mini dress with sheer sleeves with high heel wedges, while Apollo, whose real name is Jake Spence, worn an open button-up shirt and ripped jeans.

'Just clicked': Edyn told WHO back in January that the couple began dating in December 2018 after starting out as friends

While the two happily embraced as they posed for the photo, the stars have not had an easy year.

In July, Apollo returned to work as a sales assistant on the Gold Coast, after admitting he was struggling to find work as a magician.

Speaking to Daily Mail Australia, the Apollo said that he's glad he now has a job to 'help pay the bills', as he tries to become a full-time entertainer.

'This year was quite hard to get a job, I think after New Year's there's always a lot of people vying for work as well,' Apollo said.

Struggles: While the two happily embraced as they posed for the photo, the stars have not had an easy year. In July, Apollo returned to work as a sales assistant on the Gold Coast, after admitting he was struggling to find work as a magician

'I'd just put a bunch of time and money into starting a stage show which I was really excited about unfortunately it didn't work out.'

Apollo said at the time that his grandmother was dying, so he wanted to spend as much time as her while he could.

Edyn told WHO back in January that they began dating in December 2018 after starting out as friends, saying 'we started to hang out more and more, we just clicked'.