Wendell Carter Jr. hit a go-ahead reverse layup with 9.1 seconds remaining in overtime and Lauri Markkanen scored a game-high 31 points to spark the visiting Chicago Bulls to a come-from-behind 110-109 victory against the Washington Wizards on Wednesday night.

Washington led by as many as 18 in the fourth quarter, but scuffled down the stretch as the Bulls closed regulation on a 23-5 run.

Bradley Beal missed a short jumper in the paint as time expired, as the Wizards lost for the fifth time in six games.

Markkanen made an alley-oop layup with 1:47 remaining in OT to give Chicago a 106-105 lead, its first advantage since the opening quarter. Beal and Isaiah Thomas each hit two free throws over the next 55 seconds to put Washington ahead 109-106. Carter made two free throws to cut the deficit to one before capping Chicago's comeback moments later.

Zach LaVine followed Markkanen with 24 points, scoring 20 in the second half and OT. Tomas Satoransky (17 points) and Kris Dunn (15) also finished in double figures for the Bulls. Markkanen, Carter and Thaddeus Young snagged nine rebounds apiece for the Bulls.

Beal swished a stepback jumper from the free throw line with 0.5 seconds remaining in the fourth quarter to put the Wizards ahead 98-96. The shot looked like an apparent game-winner, but Washington's Isaac Bonga fouled LaVine under the basket on the ensuing inbounds play, and LaVine hit both free throws to forge another tie.

Moments earlier, LaVine was fouled on a 3-point attempt with 5.5 seconds to go and tied the score by making all three free throws.

Davis Bertans paced the Wizards with 26 points while shooting 7-for-13 from long range. Beal (22 points), Thomas (16) and Troy Brown Jr. (10) were next, while Anzejs Pasecniks had a team-best eight rebounds in his first NBA game.

Washington shot just 19-for-48 (39.6 percent) from the floor in the first half but led 58-52 primarily due to Bertans' hot hand. The third-year power forward made six of the Wizards' 19 shots -- all from beyond the 3-point arc -- en route to scoring a game-high 21 points at the break.

Interestingly, Bertans had just one shot attempt for the majority of the third quarter, but Washington still took a 12-point lead into the final 12 minutes.

Chicago is off until a Saturday visit to the Detroit Pistons. The Wizards are set to open a four-game road trip Friday, facing the Toronto Raptors.

--Field Level Media