Elton John made a fashionable arrival in Brisbane on Wednesday afternoon.

Ahead of his first sold out show at the Brisbane Entertainment Centre, the 72-year-old music icon landed in Queensland on a luxury private jet.

The legend wore a sparkling purple tracksuit and a pair of Gucci's Flashtrek embellished white sneakers, worth $2,000 (AUD).

He's arrived! Elton John (pictured) made a fashionable arrival in Brisbane on Wednesday, wearing a sparkling purple tracksuit and a pair of Gucci's sneakers, worth $2,000

As Elton exited the aircraft and stepped onto the tarmac, an assistant held a large umbrella over him.

The umbrella blocked out the scorching sun, with Australia sweltering to record breaking temperatures this week.

Elton kicked off the Australian leg of his Farewell Yellow Brick Road world tour at the HBF Park in Perth on November 30.

The run of shows Down Under ends at Sydney's Bankwest Stadium on March 3.

Can you feel the heat tonight? As Elton exited the aircraft and stepped onto the tarmac, an assistant held a large umbrella over him, blocking out the scorching sun

On the road! Elton kicked off the Australian leg of his Farewell Yellow Brick Road world tour in November, and will perform two shows in Brisbane this week. Pictured on December 10

Elton dedicated a song to Australian icons Nick Cave and Molly Meldrum at his Farewell Yellow Brick Road show in Melbourne on December 14.

The legend performed one of his classic songs for Nick, 62, before thanking Molly, 76, for 'everything he's done' and publicly ending their seven-year feud.

Before singing 1971 hit Tiny Dancer at Rod Laver Arena, Elton praised Nick, who was in the crowd, saying: 'This is for Nick, with as much love as I could possibly muster.'

Dedication: Before singing hit single Tiny Dancer in Melbourne on December 14, Elton praised Nick Cave (pictured) saying: 'This is for Nick, with as much love as I could possibly muster'

Later on in the show, Elton dedicated a performance to Molly, who he famously fell out with in 2012, after footage of himself criticising Madonna during an interview together accidentally went to air.

'We've had tears, we've had laughter but we've had a friendship that's lasted so long. I don't think anyone has done more for music in Australia than Molly Meldrum,' Elton said as the crowd cheered.

'Molly, I love you, I thank you dearly for everything you've done for me. Bless you.'

Elton will perform his second show in Brisbane on Thursday and then rock two gigs in Sydney on Saturday and Monday, before enjoying a break over Christmas.

The tour will then start up again on January 7 at Sydney's Qudos Bank Arena.

'I thank you dearly for everything you've done for me': Later on in the show, Elton dedicated a performance to Molly Meldrum (pictured) and shared a heartfelt speech about their friendship