She welcomed her first child, daughter Marlie-Mae, with fiancé Matty 'J' Johnson in June.

And on Thursday, The Bachelor's Laura Byrne, 33, took to her Instagram to share a tribute to her adorable bundle of joy as she marked a milestone.

Sharing a carousel of precious moments with her tot, Laura wrote: 'It's been my absolute pleasure to be your booby barista these past 6 months.'

'It's been my absolute pleasure to be your booby barista': Laura Byrne has shared a tribute to her daughter Marlie-Mae as she turned six months on Thursday

She continued: 'You are the best boss in the biz, the head honcho, the big muchacho! We love you chicken nugget.

The accompanying photos showed baby Marlie-Mae's journey over the last six months while pulling a series of funny faces and poses.

The collage of snaps quickly attracted plenty of gushing comments.

Milestone moment! 'You are the best boss in the biz, the head honcho, the big muchacho! We love you chicken nugget', she wrote, alongside a carousel of adorable saps

'Her faces make my day!': The collage of snaps quickly attracted plenty of gushing comments

One fan wrote commented: 'Her faces make my day! Thanks so much for sharing them, she's a doll...with a BIG personality'.

Brittany Hockley, who appeared on Nick Cummins' season of The Bachelor wrote: 'I love her. Happy half birthday little squid'.

Laura's post comes after her partner Matthew 'Matty J' Johnson revealed the unusual - and completely unplanned - way he and his fiancée came to choose their little one's name.

'I was shocked!' Earlier this week, Bachelor hunk Matty J, 32, (centre) revealed it was his partner Laura (right) who chose the name Marlie-Mae for their newborn baby (left)

Speaking on his podcast The Babble with Nat Bass and Matty J, the doting dad said he was 'convinced' the pair were having a boy - and so had zero monikers planned upon the arrival of their little girl.

'I saw and I was shocked. I had about five boys names banked up, and I didn't have any girls names,' the 32-year-old reality TV hunk said.

But it was his doting Laura, who came to the rescue - with Matty adding: 'Laura just instinctively said: 'Let's call her Marlie'.