Nancy Pelosi presided Wednesday night over the third successful impeachment of a U.S. president, but she told reporters after adjourning the House of Representatives that she's in no hurry to hand the U.S. Senate the baton for a trial.

Senators in the Republican-led upper chamber of Congress own the next chapter of the Donald Trump impeachment saga, a trial where Chief Justice John Roberts will preside. An unlikely two-thirds supermajority is required to convict the president and remove him from office.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, expects to helm hearings that exonerate Trump. But Pelosi, a California Democrat, will decide when he can begin. The process kicks off when impeachment 'managers,' duos chosen by both parties, present the Senate with the impeachment articles the House has passed.

Pelosi said Wednesday night that she won't be ready to let go of the process until McConnell demonstrates the trial will be 'fair'—and she's nowhere near convinced yet.

Impeachment managers are appointed via House resolutions; Thursday is the last day of the year when the House will be in session.

Democratic Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi said Donald Trump's impeachment won't move to the U.S. Senate until she's persuaded Republicans there will hold a 'fair' trial

Trump vented about his political plight at a political rally in Michigan while House Democrats were voting to impeach him in Washington

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has acknowledged he's a partisan in advance of the trial; unless a massive supermajority of senators agree to convict Trump, he'll keep his job

'We have legislation approved by the Rules Committee that will enable us to decide how we send over the articles of impeachment,' Pelosi said. 'We cannot name managers until we see what the process is on the Senate side.'

'So far we haven't seen anything that looks fair to us,' she warned. 'So hopefully it will be fairer. And when see what that is, we'll send our managers.'

'Let me tell you what I don't consider a fair trial,' Pelosi said as she read from a piece of paper an aide handed her.

'This is what I don't consider a fair trial, that Leader McConnell has stated that he's not an impartial juror, that he's going to take his "cues" from the White House, and he is working in total coordination with the White House counsel's office.'

In Michigan, a sweat-glowing Trump said during a raucous campaign rally that he expects no drama.

'The Republican Party has never been so affronted, but they've never been so united as they are right now, ever. Never,' the president said.

'And I know the senators and they're great guys. And women too. We have some great women, we have great guys, they're great people. They love this counry. They're going to do the right thing.'

'Americans will show up by the tens of millions next year to vote Pelosi the hell out of office,' Trump boasted, calling for the restoration of a Republican House majority.

Democratic Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer watched the vote count in his Capitol Hill office on Wednesday; he is agitating for concessions as McConnell decides the contours of the impeachment trial

Pelosi has worked for more than two years to hang an impeachment asterisk around Trump's neck, and presided over the long-planned event Wednesday night

On the eve of the House impeachment vote, a few thousand protestors carried signs and marched from Times Square to Union Square in New York City

In theory Pelosi could sit on the paperwork indefinitely, leaving Trump in constitutional purgatory while blaming Senate Republicans for dooming the process with partisanship.

In the meantime, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer is pressing McConnell for permission to call a list of witnesses who Democrats want to hear from.

House Democrats denied Republicans the ability to call witnesses of their choice in Intelligence and Judiciary Committee hearings during the impeachment process.

Pelosi's gambit could be resolved once Schumer has exhausted his leverage.

'We have done what we set out to do,' she said, adding that 'right now, the president is impeached.'

'We'll see what happens over there.'