The holiday shopping frenzy is now in the eleventh hour.

And on Sunday, Dennis Quaid and fiancee Laura Savoie were among the crowds of people looking to find those special gifts for their family and loved ones.

The pair were spotted out and about, going in and out of a number of shops in the Brentwood neighborhood of Los Angeles.

Dennis Quaid, 65, and fiancee Luara Savoie, 26,

From the looks of all the shopping bags in their hands, the afternoon excursion was a success.

The Great Balls Of Fire! star emerged from a store with two bags under his arm, dressed in black jeans, a black and blue plaid shirt and black sneakers.

Following close behind carrying three bags, Savoie showed off her fit figure in black skinny jeans with a black and grey blouse.

She also donned a grey leather jacket and brown ankle boots, and wore her blonde tresses long, straight and with a part on the slight right.

Checking their lists: The Great Balls Of Fire! star emerged from a store with two bags under his arm, dressed in black jeans, a black and blue plaid shirt and black sneakers

The couple announced their engagement in Late October.

Since then the Parent Trap star acknowledged he has heard all the chatter about their 39-year age difference.

'I didn't go out looking for an age gap or someone really younger than me,' he revealed in an interview with The Guardian.

'I met her at a business event and then the relationship developed. I don't fall in love easy. But I can't let what a few people think control all that.'

You know when you know: Quaid maintains he 'didn't go out looking for an age gap or someone really younger than me,' when asked about the couple 39-year difference

Quaid was adamant that he has found someone to share the rest of his life with.

'I've been married three times and this is the final one, I know it is,' he said, referring to his previous marriages to P.J. Soles, Kimberly Buffington and Meg Ryan.

'I feel like I have a real partner in life.'

Quaid has three children: Jack, 27, whom he shares with Ryan, and twins Thomas and Zoe, 12, from his nuptials with Buffington.

The acclaimed actor currently stars in the Netflix comedy series Merry Happy Whatever, that premiered the first of eight episodes in late November. He also recently starred in the films Midway, A Dog's Journey and The Intruder.