The identities of dogs raped by a serial sex offender have been suppressed by court order as the pervert prepares to be sentenced for bestiality.

A New South Wales judge made the unusual move to protect the identities of the dogs and their owners before sentencing pet predator Dean Anthony Sellenthin.

Sellenthin, whose crimes included repeatedly raping dogs, assaulting an elderly woman and filming children in their homes, told Lismore District Court he deeply regretted his actions.

Judge John North extended a statutory non-publication order protecting the identity of Sellethin's adult and child victims to 'details in relation to the name and ownership of the animals subject of the bestiality charges.'

Dean Anthony Sellenthin repeatedly raped dogs including a golden retriever but says he regrets his crimes. The names of the dogs and their owners have been suppressed (file image)

Sellenthin, 43, from Bangalow on the north coast of NSW, told the court on Wednesday he was 'disgusted' with his deviant behaviour which included stealing underwear.

He was convicted of 83 offences including five counts of bestiality as well as aggravated sexual assault, aggravated indecent assault and aggravated break and enter.

A further 82 offences were taken into account in sentencing.

Sellenthin told the court he was 'deeply sorry' for the attack on the elderly woman, who was losing her eyesight when he assaulted her and had since died.

DEAN SELLENTHIN'S SICK CRIME SPREE Dean Sellenthin has been convicted of 83 crimes on indictment: One count of aggravated sexual assault Ten counts of aggravated indecent assault Ten counts of aggravated break and enter and commit a serious indictable offence Five counts of bestiality Seventeen counts of produce child abuse material. One count of possess child abuse material Two counts of fail to comply with reporting obligations Twenty counts of stalking Eleven counts of steal from dwelling Three counts of break enter and commit serious indictable offence One count of enter dwelling with intent to commit a serious indictable offence Two counts of larceny

'I had no right to invade her home, to assault her,' he said, according to The Northern Star. 'I had no right to make her feel unsafe.'

Sellenthin's offending took place between 2012 and 2017 in the Byron Shire.

Court documents stated he had committed acts of bestiality against a number of dogs including a female golden retriever.

He had also forced himself upon a black and brown 'male canine' and a dark short-haired 'female canine'.

Sellenthin could not explain his sexual interest in animals but said drug use had contributed to his crimes.

'I'm disgusted just thinking about how my life got to that point,' he said. 'I think with the right services and programs I will not re-offend. I want it to stop.'

Sellenthin had been imprisoned previously and completed a sex offenders' program while in jail.

The Crown prosecutor said Sellenthin was 'impulsive' and that 'no one' was safe from him even when inside their own homes.

Regarding 17 charges of producing child abuse material, Sellenthin's barrister Jason Watts said his client had never had any contact with the children.

Sellenthin was arrested in November, 2017 and has been in custody since. His sentencing hearing was adjourned on Thursday.