Perth Glory coach Tony Popovic will keep an open mind about January's transfer window, but Socceroos defender Matt Spiranovic won't be part of his plans.

Glory's defensive stocks took another hit recently when veteran Dino Djulbic suffered a serious ankle injury.

Further scans and visits to specialists will determine how long Djulbic will need on the sidelines, but it could end up being a long-term injury.

Fellow centre back Osama Malik is still sidelined by the hamstring injury he suffered almost seven weeks ago, while Alex Grant and Tomislav Mrcela have only just returned from their own ailments.

On paper, Spiranovic looms as the perfect option to bring in during January, especially given Glory already have one space free on their roster.

Spiranovic's strong form for Glory last season earned him a Socceroos recall, but he hasn't played at any level since then.

The 31-year-old hasn't given any indication about what his future holds, and Popovic says the defender isn't in his plans.

"Matty's not a player for now for us," Popovic said.

"I know Matty very well off the field. We have a great relationship as a coach and player. I respect anything that Matty's doing.

"Up until now it's not football.

"If that changes, I'll certainly be a supporter and wish him well."

Popovic said that, at this stage, no one would be leaving the club during the transfer window, and he is open to luring in someone new.

For now, Popovic is focused on helping his team continue climbing the ladder, with two wins on the trot lifting Glory from last into fifth spot.

Perth will start as hot favourites at home on Saturday night when they take on the struggling Newcastle Jets at HBF Park.

The Jets copped a 4-0 thumping at the hands of Melbourne City last week, and Popovic is expecting a backlash.

"We certainly expect a reaction from Newcastle," Popovic said.

"They're a very dangerous team, and I'm sure everyone who has played them thus far agrees with that.

"Going forward they're always a threat. I'm sure they will be very determined to put last week's result right.

"We have to be prepared for a team that will show a lot of desperation."