A pair of robots named 'Bill' that can help passengers navigate their way around Heathrow Airport are being deployed by British Airways.

The machines will interact with customers in multiple languages and escort them to locations in Terminal 5 such as cafes, toilets and family check-in zones.

They will be programmed to answer thousands of questions and free up staff to help with more complex queries, according to the airline.

Around 90,000 passengers travel through Terminal 5 at the UK's busiest airport every day. BA says the two bots should help speed up their journeys.

The news comes as a poll by Which? reveals that British Airways passenger satisfaction ratings have plummeted amid IT glitches, strikes and cancellations.

It marks a dramatic fall from grace for the airline, which in 2015 was voted the best short-haul option in the same survey.

The robots will escort passengers to various locations in Terminal 5 (British Airways/PA)

The bots are part of a series of innovations being developed as part of British Airways's £6.5 billion investment in customer service and technology.

Other innovations include the use of artificial intelligence to cut delays in preparing aircraft for departure, driverless baggage vehicles and 3D printing of cabin parts.

Ricardo Vidal, head of innovation at British Airways, said the carrier is constantly looking at how it can use automation to provide faster and smoother journeys.

'These smart robots are the latest innovation, allowing us to free up our people to deal with immediate issues and offer that one-on-one service we know our customers appreciate.

'In the future, I envisage a fleet of robots working side-by-side with our people offering a truly seamless travel experience.'

The two bots being trialled from February will be named Bill after Lieutenant EH 'Bill' Lawford, who captained the world's first daily international passenger air service.

His flight operated every day from London to Paris and started in 1919.

It is hoped the bots will make it easier for passengers to navigate through the airport (British Airways/PA)

The announcement of the new robots comes at the end of a dismal year for the company due to IT glitches, strikes and cancellations.

Last month, an IT meltdown caused delays of up to 24 hours. There were similarly severe systems failures in 2017.

This year's chaos came 12 months after hackers stole the data of half a million BA customers in a breach which led to a £183million fine.

BA said: 'Our own data shows customer satisfaction scores have increased as we deliver our £6.5billion investment for customers on new aircraft, new food, new lounges and new technology.'

'Bill' and 'Bill' are being supplied by west London-based firm BotsAndUs and will use geolocation technology and dozens of sensors to move around Terminal 5 without colliding with passengers or their suitcases.

Other airports are already making use of robot help including Gatwick Airport which began trialling a valet parking robot in the autumn.

Robots have also been used to provide a variety of functions at overseas airports such as in Munich, Germany; Seoul, South Korea; Shenzen, China; Amsterdam-Schiphol, Netherlands; and Edmonton, Canada.