Celebrities have reacted after Donald Trump became the third president in US history to be impeached.

Mr Trump was impeached on the charge of abuse of power for enlisting a foreign ally to investigate a political rival ahead of the 2020 election.

He is also being impeached on the charge of obstruction of Congress.

Mr Trump, who has called the investigation a “witch hunt,” a “hoax” and a “sham”, is a frequent target for many in Hollywood, and celebrities were quick to respond when his impeachment was confirmed.

Thank you to the House of Representatives for doing your constitutional duty. Everyone please call your senators and tell them to remove this evil man from office. https://t.co/IKEPnZE84B — John Legend (@johnlegend) December 19, 2019

Singer John Legend has clashed with the president previously and called for “this evil man” to be removed from office.

He tweeted: “Thank you to the House of Representatives for doing your constitutional duty. Everyone please call your senators and tell them to remove this evil man from office.”

John Legend and Lizzo were among the celebrities to react to Donald Trump´s impeachment (Ian West/PA)

The only thing that hurts is this country is divided by hatred fueled from people like you.. why don’t u do better and give ya boy some advice on telling the truth, he’s gonna need it. https://t.co/E8SlndHDHa — Feelin Good As Hell (@lizzo) December 19, 2019

Pop star Lizzo responded to a conservative political commentator who referenced the title of one of the singer’s hit songs and said the “truth hurts” that Mr Trump is still president.

Lizzo said: “The only thing that hurts is this country is divided by hatred fueled (sic) from people like you… why don’t u do better and give ya boy some advice on telling the truth, he’s gonna need it.”

Acclaimed director Rob Reiner, known for films including Stand By Me, When Harry Met Sally… and Misery, is a long-time critic of Mr Trump.

This President is not being Impeached because he’s a liar or immoral or a misogynist or a white nationalist or incompetent or ignorant. He’s being Impeached because he committed the High Crimes of Abuse of Power & Obstruction of Congress. — Rob Reiner (@robreiner) December 19, 2019

He tweeted: “This President is not being Impeached because he’s a liar or immoral or a misogynist or a white nationalist or incompetent or ignorant.

“He’s being Impeached because he committed the High Crimes of Abuse of Power & Obstruction of Congress.”

Actress and activist Alyssa Milano said: “This is a terrible day in our country’s history. But a great defence of our democracy.”

This is a terrible day in our country’s history.



But a great defense of our democracy — Alyssa Milano (@Alyssa_Milano) December 19, 2019

Actress Bette Midler tweeted just one word: “Impeached.”

Impeached. — Bette Midler (@BetteMidler) December 19, 2019

Actor Cole Sprouse said it was “time for a celebration”.

Time for a celebration — Cole M. Sprouse (@colesprouse) December 19, 2019

In a follow up tweet, the star of teen drama Riverdale added the hashtag #happyholidays2019.

Singer-songwriter Victoria Monet also welcomed Mr Trump’s impeachment, tweeting: “Getting closer to making this orangesickle disappear man.”

While the impeachment votes were taking place in Washington DC, Mr Trump was at a rally in Battle Creek, Michigan.

Speaking to his cheering supporters, he said: “It doesn’t really feel like we’re being impeached. This lawless partisan impeachment is a political suicide march for the Democrat party.”

Mr Trump will now face a trial in the Republican-controlled Senate next month, where a two-thirds vote is necessary for conviction.

It is expected the president will be acquitted.