Radio host Grant Denyer, 42, and wife Chezzi, 39, will celebrate 10 years of married life next February.

But the giddy couple could have easily passed for newlyweds on Friday as they made their way to Melbourne Airport.

Grant, who is currently working on radio in Melbourne, and Chezzi (real name Cheryl) were flying home to inland New South Wales for the weekend.

Loved up! Radio host Grant Denyer and wife Chezzi (both pictured) packed on the PDA together in Melbourne ahead of catching a flight back home to Sydney on Friday

Grant has been flying back-and-forth the past few weeks to facilitate his co-hosting role on his Hit Network summer radio show with former Gogglebox star Yvie Jones.

Grant and Chezzi, who married in 2010, are known for their very public displays of affection.

Despite standing on the busy street of the Victorian capital on Friday, they proved they only had eyes for each other.

Chezzi tenderly nuzzled into the Gold Logie winner, while Grant was only too happy to fully embrace his lovely wife.

The affectionate display didn't stop there, with the happily married pair then spotted laughing and joking with each other.

Crazy in love! Chezzi tenderly nuzzled into the Gold Logie winner, while Grant was only too happy to fully embrace his lovely wife

Romantic: The couple will celebrate their 10th wedding anniversary in February, but could have passed for newlyweds while on the Melbourne street

The couple looked blissfully happy as they stared lovingly into each other's eyes, as they stood beside their lugagge.

The pair only stopped in order to get a cab to the city's airport from their hotel.

Later, the couple reemerged and were seen packing on the PDA yet again as they were waiting in line at the airport's check-in desks.

Wedded bliss! The couple looked happy as they stared lovingly into each other's eyes

Happy! Grant and Chezzi were clearly in high spirits as they chatted on the street

All smiles! The couple laughed and joked with each other

The couple arrived holding hands, with the romantic displays continuing.

Chezzi held the former Family Feud host close, as she appeared to whisper a sweet nothing in his ear.

Grant then returned the favour by affectionately grabbing hold of her hands, as the couple stood waiting to check-in for their flight.

Waiting game! The couple only stopped the PDA as a waiting car came close, in order to take them to Melbourne airport

Chezzi kept her look stylish for the flight, wearing a tight white T-shirt along with a tailored black blazer, which was embellished with gold buttons.

She paired the blazer with a colourful loose-fitting pink-and-red striped skirt.

Chezzi finished her look with accessories, including a mauve Gucci bag, which she wore across her body, and Gucci sneakers.

Close: Later, the couple reemerged holding hands while walking through Melbourne Airport

Meanwhile, Grant opted for a smart casual look wearing a Lacoste blue-and-grey striped jumper, which he paired with sand-hued shorts.

He finished his outfit with mustard sneakers and semi-transparent sunglasses.

Chezzi and Grant were married in Hamilton Island in 2010. The couple share two daughters Sailor, 8, and Scout, 3.

Loving: The couple were clearly smitten while going through the security check

Devoted: Not even the normally dreaded airport check-in was enough to dampen the couple's spirits

Doting: Chezzi shared a heart-warming tribute to her husband while marking nine years of wedding bliss last month

Last month, Chezzi shared a heart-warming tribute to her husband while marking their ninth years together as a married couple.

Sharing a snap of the couple to Instagram, Chezzi wrote: 'Healthy, happy and deliriously in love. Still.'

She then added: 'How amazing is that - After nearly 10 years married!'

Affectionate! Chezzi and Grant were married in Hamilton Island in 2010. The couple share two young daughters Sailor, 8, and Scout, 3