Western United coach Mark Rudan says former Socceroo Scott McDonald has not asked for a release while he hopes to see marquee and captain Alessandro Diamanti continue at the A-League club beyond this season.

McDonald has missed United's past two games - against Melbourne Victory in Geelong and the Roar in Brisbane - with an achilles complaint, though he scored a brace in a friendly against NPL Victoria side St Albans on Saturday.

Reports emerged this week the 36-year-old had requested a release, but Rudan rejected the suggestion.

"No, he hasn't asked for a release," Rudan said on Thursday.

"It's quite interesting but it's no different to anywhere else - people are gonna ask these sorts of questions, they're gonna throw stones at us - it's been happening from day one in different situations and areas in terms of our football club.

"But as far as we're concerned, we stick together and it makes us stronger as a football club and we don't allow any outside negativity or outside sources (to) influence or get in the way of what we're trying to build here - so there's no truth to that."

McDonald pulled up sore after a practice match in training this week and will not travel to Western Sydney with the United squad.

Skipper Diamanti is on a one-year deal but Rudan said he hoped to see the mercurial Italian play on next season.

"He's a fantastic player, he's been a joy to coach and work with and I'd love for that to continue," he said.

"But again, it's not my decision."

Rudan said former Ajax youngster Seb Pasquali was back training with the squad and was building towards a club debut.

"He had an ankle (injury) and then a quad and then he went to the Olyroos and got re-injured there as well but he's worked really hard the last few weeks with our conditioning coach - playing catch up," Rudan said.

"But this week he's been with the players and he'll get minutes on Saturday because we've got a game organised against Altona so he'll get his first minutes.

"He's looking like a different person. It's really good to see Sebastian out there with the players now and he's got a spring in his step and he looks good."

Meanwhile, Socceroo Josh Risdon looks unlikely to return from a foot injury before the new year.