Courteney Cox dressed down in her aviator-shaped glasses to shop at antique furniture store Galerie Half in West Hollywood on Wednesday.

The Golden Globe nominee easily defied her 55 years in a black knit sweater, grey jeans, and b&w sneakers as she stepped out on Melrose Avenue with two gentlemen.

Missing from Courteney's side was her on/off fiancé, Snow Patrol guitarist-keyboard player Johnny McDaid.

Specs appeal: Courteney Cox dressed down in her aviator-shaped glasses to shop at antique furniture store Galerie Half in West Hollywood on Wednesday

Retail therapy: The Golden Globe nominee easily defied her 55 years in a black knit sweater, grey jeans, and b&w sneakers as she stepped out on Melrose Avenue with two gentlemen

Cox originally met the 43-year-old Irish musician in 2013 when he attended one of her weekly Sunday Suppers at her 8K-square-foot Malibu mansion.

The Alabama-born brunette also has a 15-year-old daughter Coco with her Scream castmate-turned-ex-husband David Arquette, whom she divorced in 2013 after a decade of marriage.

Courteney's sighting came a week after David Spade's Instagram followers commented about her resemblance to two-time Olympic gold medalist and transgender activist Caitlyn Jenner.

Spitting image? Courteney's sighting came a week after David Spade's Instagram followers commented about her resemblance to two-time Olympic gold medalist and transgender activist Caitlyn Jenner

Cox posted a side-by-side comparison on Saturday captioned: 'Alright...I can see it'

'@davidspade posted this pic, now I really didn't think I looked like myself but this was surprising,' Cox posted on Saturday.

'Alright...I can see it.'

The Shameless guest star last graced the small screen December 2 as a contestant on Meredith Vieira's game show 25 Words or Less with her Friends castmate, Lisa Kudrow.

Keeping it casual: Courtney was later seen stepping out in a casual knit and skinny jeans

On the phone: The actress was spotted deep in conversation as she went about her business

On November 12, THR reported that 'the six leads and creators would participate' in an unscripted reunion special to air on $15/month HBO Max, but 'a deal is far from done.'

Courteney, Lisa, Jennifer Aniston, David Schwimmer, Matthew Perry, and Matt LeBlanc from the NBC sitcom - which concluded 2004 after 10 seasons - celebrated their 25th anniversary on September 19.

Meanwhile, the SAG Award winner has been hard at work producing and hosting the second season of her Facebook Watch pregnancy docuseries, 9 Months with Courteney Cox, streaming next year.

Hey girl! The Alabama-born brunette last graced the small screen December 2 as a contestant on Meredith Vieira's game show 25 Words or Less with her Friends castmate, Lisa Kudrow (R)

Cross your fingers! On November 12, THR reported that 'the six leads and creators would participate' in an unscripted reunion special to air on $15/month HBO Max, but 'a deal is far from done' (pictured October 15)