Dua Lipa stood out in a red and blue outfit Wednesday while headed to a talk show taping in New York City.

The 24-year-old English singer wore a bright red puffer jacket along with cuffed blue jeans with plaid lining.

She completed her ensemble with black heeled boots and carried a black purse while going to The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon studio.

Contrasting colors: Dua Lipa stood out in contrasting blue and red colors Wednesday while heading to The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon studio in New York City

Dua accessorized with several rings and had her short blonde hair down.

The Grammy-winning singer accentuated her natural beauty with just a hint of makeup.

Dua performed her new song Don't Start Now on Tuesday during the finale of The Voice on NBC.

Don't Start Now was released last month as the lead single from her upcoming studio album Future Nostalgia due out early next year.

Bundled up: The English singer bundled up in a red puffer jacket

Busy star: Dua performed her new song Don't Start Now on Tuesday during the finale of The Voice broadcast from Los Angeles

Her new single reached the top 10 on the UK Singles Chart and cracked the top 40 of the US Billboard Hot 100 chart.

Dua won the Grammy Award for Best New Artist in February and a Grammy for Best Dance Recording for her song Electricity with the duo Silk City.

She released her eponymous debut album in 2017 featuring the hit singles Be The One, IDGAF, New Rules.

Grammy winner: The London native earlier this year won the Grammy Award for Best New Artist

Dua and Scottish record producer Calvin Harris, 35, teamed up for the 2018 single One Kiss that reached number one on both the UK Singles Chart and the US Dance Club Songs chart.

The London native was born to Kosovo Albanian parents and was awarded the key to Kosovo's capital city Pristina in 2018 after setting up the Sunny Hill Foundation to improve the quality of life for residents there.

She was appearing as a guest Wednesday on The Tonight Show and was expected to perform as musical guest Thursday on the NBC talk show.

Dua also has been scheduled to perform Friday on Good Morning America on ABC.