Three Oklahoma players have been suspended and will miss the Sooners' College Football Playoff semifinal, according to multiple reports.

The No. 4 Sooners will play No. 1 LSU in the Peach Bowl in Atlanta on Dec. 28. The winner advances to the championship game on Jan. 13 to meet either No. 2 Ohio State or No. 3 Clemson.

SoonerScoop.com reported Wednesday the suspended players are starting defensive end Ronnie Perkins, running back Rhamondre Stevenson and receiver Trejan Bridges. No reason for the suspensions has been released.

Perkins has 38 tackles (13.5 for loss), six sacks and six quarterback hurries in 13 starts this season. Stevenson carried the ball 64 times for 575 yards, scoring six touchdowns. Bridges had seven catches for 82 yards -- two of them touchdowns.

--Mississippi State freshman safety J.P. Purvis was hospitalized and listed in critical condition following a car crash Tuesday night near the campus.

Also injured were freshman defensive end De'Monte Russell, who was treated and released from a hospital in Starkville, Miss., and 18-year-old Xavier Taylor, not affiliated with the school, who also was transported to a hospital in critical condition, the Mississippi Highway Patrol said.

Purvis was driving a 2017 Nissan Altima that hit the back of an 18-wheeler on Mississippi Highway 25 at 7:08 p.m. local time on Tuesday, according to the Mississippi Highway Patrol. The crash happened shortly after the Bulldogs finished football practice.

--LSU standout running back Clyde Edwards-Helaire missed practice due to a hamstring injury, and his status for the Peach Bowl against Oklahoma is uncertain.

Edwards-Helaire suffered the injury Tuesday in a non-contact situation, Tigers coach Ed Orgeron told reporters. Orgeron said he didn't yet know the extent of the injury and that Edwards-Helaire was still undergoing tests.

The standout junior was a first-team All-SEC selection this season after rushing for 1,290 yards and 16 touchdowns. He also caught 50 passes for 399 yards and one score.

--Field Level Media