An unremorseful toddler basher should get a shorter jail term due to 'various close calls and long fearful periods' in custody and scores of people condemning his actions on Facebook, a court has been told.

The submission - later withdrawn - was made as the NSW District Court prepares to sentence the 22-year-old Sydney man for leaving a 15-month-old boy with a fractured skull and bruises across his whole body in April 2018.

The boy's mother had ducked out for milk and returned to find her boy lying in his bed with blood dripping from his nose and mouth.

The submission - later withdrawn - was made as the NSW District Court (pictured) prepares to sentence the 22-year-old Sydney man for leaving a 15-month-old boy with a fractured skull and bruises across his whole body in April 2018

When she called triple zero, the man took over the call, told the operator his girlfriend was 'exaggerating' and followed first-aid instructions, crown prosecutor Sara Gul said.

The now-three-year-old boy suffered a fractured skull, spinal bleeding, eye bleeding, chest injuries, damage to the liver and pancreas, and bleeding from the toenails.

He's since recovered and shows no sign of permanent damage.

Ms Gul said the offender's guilty plea to reckless wounding causing grievous bodily harm was one of convenience and he remained yet to reveal precisely what happened.

Defence barrister Simon Healy acknowledged his client - whose identity is shielded by a court order - hadn't shown remorse or specific insight into his actions.

But, as part of his client's case to persuade Judge Justin Smith SC for a shorter jail term, Mr Healy tendered a document of 1000 Facebook posts publicly condemning the offender's conduct.

The posts range from labelling the man 'disgraceful scum' and asking why he doesn't die to correct assertions that he's being held at Silverwater - Sydney's main remand centre.

Mr Healy said the Silverwater comments showed direct knowledge of the offender's circumstances, and the 'degree of extraordinary and high-level exuberance and threat' was entirely different to the principle of open justice.

'It's not something to which the average prisoner ... is subject to.'

While no actual grievous harm has come to him, the man's submissions spoke of 'various close calls and fearful moments', Mr Healy said.

The barrister later withdrew the extra-curial punishment submission and instead relied on the short duration of the offending, the lack of any evidence of planning and the man's immaturity.

Ms Gul said Judge Smith couldn't find any real connection between the man's ADHD and the April 2018 incident.

Further, she submitted, courts had tried various ways to halt his violent episodes, from good-behaviour bonds to short periods in custody.

'The only thing has been a stopping point has been that he was locked up the day after this offending and he hasn't been let out since,' she said.

Judge Smith will deliver his sentence on Thursday afternoon.