A man accused of fatally stabbing a customer outside a Popeyes restaurant in Maryland last month has been indicted by a grand jury.

Ricoh McClain, 30, of Washington, DC is facing charges of common law murder and carrying a dangerous weapon with intent to injure, Prince George's County State's Attorney Aisha N Braveboy announced Tuesday.

McClain allegedly stabbed 28-year-old Kevin Tyrell Davis to death outside the Popeyes in Oxon Hill on November 4.

Ricoh McClain, 30, (pictured) has been indicted for murder after he allegedly stabbed 28-year-old Kevin Tyrell Davis (right) to death outside a Popeyes restaurant in Maryland last month

McClain was arrested on November 13 after a week-long manhunt

The suspect was arrested on November 13 after a week-long manhunt.

He was booked on charges of first degree murder, second degree murder, first degree assault, second degree assault and reckless endangerment.

The altercation between McClain and Davis allegedly began when the suspect confronted the victim and accused him of cutting in line to buy a $3.99 chicken sandwich.

The two exchanged words and the argument escalated to the point that they went outside the restaurant, where Davis was stabbed.

Cops say the entire confrontation lasted just 15 seconds.

Responding officers found Davis in the parking lot with a single stab wound. His assailant had fled the scene.

Davis was rushed to the hospital and died from his wound 51 minutes later.

The altercation between McClain and Davis unfolded outside a Popeyes in Oxon Hills, Maryland, on November 4. The restaurant is pictured above

This footage shows first responders loading Davis into an ambulance after the attack

McClain fled the scene (pictured) after the incident and was on the run for a week

Prince George County Police released a surveillance photo of the suspect, pleading for the public in identifying him. Police Chief Hank Stawinski said the suspect was known to law enforcement for past violent incidents.

After McClain's arrest, a spokeswoman for the Prince George's County Police Department, said it was an officer who first identified the suspect after recognizing him from several previous interactions on the street.

The spokeswoman said a number of phone calls from the public 'backed up the assertion'.

Prince George's County police released a surveillance footage of the suspect inside the restaurant and pleaded for the public's help in identifying him

Officials said the suspect was known to law enforcement for past violent incidents

The harrowing attack unfolded in the midst of the Popeyes chicken sandwich craze, which has incited brawls in other restaurants across the nations as the popular burger attracts long lines and busy wait times.

The sandwich was first introduced in August and sold out in two weeks. The crispy feast returned to menus across the nation November 3, reigniting the frenzy.

In the Maryland Popeyes attack, one eyewitness described how a 'dude cut the line' before they 'went outside' and 'dude got stabbed', adding: 'And now we can't leave because they have to make sure there is no blood on the road.'

A representative for Popeyes told DailyMail.com: 'What happened in Maryland last night is a tragedy and we are saddened to hear about this senseless act of violence.'

'Our thoughts are with the victim's family and friends. We, along with the franchisee, are fully cooperating with local authorities and actively working to gather more information,' the chain added.