Kaley Cuoco and Zosia Mamet were snapped in New York City Wednesday filming The Flight Attendant.

Cuoco, 33, was clad in a beige leather coat with a belt, a yellow scarf with gloves, and carried a snakeskin purse around her shoulder as cameras rolled in the Big Apple.

Cuoco, who plays the role of Cassandra Bowden on the show, rounded out her ensemble with grey slacks and multicolored boots. She had her blonde locks mussed as she performed takes with Mamet, 31.

Lights, camera, action! Kaley Cuoco, 33, and Zosia Mamet, 31, were snapped in New York City Wednesday filming The Flight Attendant

Mamet donned an all-maroon ensemble of a thick coat with a scarf and heels, with white pantyhose.

The Girls alum, who's the daughter of famed playwright David Mamet, carried a leather purse and had her red locks parted and pulled back.

The Flight Attendant, an eight-part series, marks Cuoco's first major project since The Big Bang Theory wrapped up, as she played Penny on the top-rated CBS hit.

In it, Cuoco portrays flight attendant Cassandra Bowden, who's in dire circumstances after waking up following a night of drinking, with a dead body in her hotel room. A confused Bowden, unsure if she's responsible for the death, tries to move forward amid the shocking twist, but circumstances of the situation make it challenging.

Stylish: Cuoco was clad in a beige leather coat with a belt, a yellow scarf and carried a snakeskin purse around her shoulder as cameras rolled in the Big Apple

Beaming: Mamet donned an all-maroon ensemble of a thick coat with a scarf and heels, with white pantyhose

Spirited: Kaley on the series plays flight attendant Cassandra Bowden, who is in dire circumstances after waking up with a dead body in her hotel room

Mamet plays Bowden's confidante Annie, a New York City attorney who's ensnared in the bone-chilling situation.

Rosie Perez, Merle Dandridge, T.R. Knight, Michiel Huisman, Sonoya Mizuno and Colin Woodell also are among the cast of the forthcoming series.

In an Instagram video on Wednesday, Cuoco said she's happily putting in the long hours on the series as the holidays approach.

'I've got a few more days left on The Flight Attendant before the holidays,' she said. 'I've never worked like this and I love it, I actually love it. I'm up first thing in the morning, I'm the last person on set - well, not the last, the crew is, the amazing crew ... I'm usually the last actor and I honestly love it, but trying to wake up before these calls.'

Sullen: Kaley crossed her arms during a tense take with Zosia

Stalwart: Cuoco's a mainstay on TV with hits such as 8 Simple Rules and The Big Bang Theory

This past summer, Cuoco she inked a pact with Warner Bros. TV Group (which produced the hit Chuck Lorre series), Deadline was first to report.

'I love that Warner Bros. is my home away from home, and I couldn't be more excited to continue this incredibly collaborative and gratifying relationship,' Cuoco said in a statement. 'They're stuck with me now!'

The series is based on Chris Bohjalian's book, and Cuoco bought its rights prior to its publication in March of 2018 by Doubleday.

Vehicle: The Flight Attendant, an eight-part series, marks Cuoco's first major project since The Big Bang Theory wrapped up

On her grind: In an Instagram video on Wednesday, Cuoco said she's happily putting in the long hours on the series as the holidays approach