An unremorseful toddler basher has shaken his head as a Sydney judge found he bit the vulnerable boy during his "egregious" attack.

The 22-year-old man, whose identity is shielded by a court order, was on Thursday jailed for six years and nine months for the April 2018 attack on his girlfriend's 15-month-old son.

Besides a guilty plea to recklessly causing grievous bodily harm, which carries a maximum of 10 years, the man has offered little detail about what happened in the seven minutes the boy's mother was out of the Sydney home on April 7.

She ducked out for milk and returned to find her boy lying in his bed with blood dripping from his mouth and ears.

When she called triple zero, the man took over the call, told the operator his girlfriend was "exaggerating and over-reacting" before appearing to follow their instructions.

The boy suffered a fractured skull, spinal bleeding, eye bleeding, rib fractures, damage to the liver and pancreas and bleeding from the toenails.

Now aged three, he shows no sign of permanent damage.

Before jailing the man on Thursday, NSW District Court Judge Justin Smith found a wound on the boy's shoulder came from the offender biting the child.

As the offender shook his head, the judge also found the man acted deliberately and had shown no remorse and little to no insight into his unplanned actions.

Judge Smith also knocked back a report tendered on the offender's behalf suggesting he may suffer adult ADHD and thus have poor impulsive control.

"I'm not satisfied any conditions, mental or otherwise, had any impact or contributed in any way," the judge said.

The attack drew public condemnation of the offender, with his defence tendering a document of 1000 Facebook posts including him being called "disgraceful scum" and correct assertions about him being at Sydney's Silverwater remand centre.

His barrister, Simon Healy, said the Silverwater comment implied direct knowledge of the offender's circumstances and the "degree of extraordinary and high-level exuberance and threat" was entirely different to the principle of open justice.

While no actual grievous harm has come to him, the man's family had spoken of "various close calls and fearful moments", Mr Healy said.

Judge Smith accepted the "sustained and vicious attacks" on social media could be considered a special circumstance, along with the offender's youth.

The guilty plea - described by the Crown as one of "convenience" - also wiped about one year off the total sentence.

But Judge Smith said the matter required significant punishment to show the community attacks on the vulnerable would not be tolerated.

"The infliction of harm on infants is an extremely serious matter," he said.

"It's egregious conduct and falls well above the mid-range (for this offence)."

Crown prosecutor Sara Gul earlier submitted courts had tried various ways to halt the 22-year-old's violent episodes from good-behaviour bonds to short periods in custody.

"The only thing that has been a stopping point has been that he was locked up the day after this offending and he hasn't been let out," she said.

The offender's four-and-a-half-year minimum term will expire in October 2022.