Jamie Lee Dolheguy has been found not guilty of the murder of a man she met on an internet dating site.

A Supreme Court of Victoria jury took several days to come to their decision following a brief trial in Melbourne.

They found Dolheguy not guilty of murder, but guilty of the lesser charge on manslaughter.

Daily Mail Australia can now reveal shocking details the jury never heard about the 'deeply damaged' killer.

The fact she killed Maulin Rathod in July 2018 had not been disputed by her or anyone else.

The now 20-year old had claimed she accidentally choked to death the Indian student in a sex-game gone wrong.

Jamie Lee Dolheguy had claimed she accidentally choked to death Indian student Maulin Rathod in a sex-game gone wrong.

Jamie Lee Dolheguy, 20, of Sunbury pleaded not guilty to murdering Maulin Rathod in July 2018 amid claims he died in a depraved sex game gone wrong. She had been into cosplay and was dressed-up as an Asian Lolita when she killed her victim

Maulin Rathod had answered a profile on a dating app. The profile stated the person was into 'choke play' and 'bondage'. The profile belonged to Jamie Lee Dohleguy, who would kill Mr Rathod soon after meeting him

The jury believed her.

Had they known Dolheguy's full, disturbing history, the verdict could have been very different.

That Dolheguy would become a killer surprised few who had ever dealt with her during her wretched years as a ward of the state in Victoria.

Daily Mail Australia has been told by those close to Dolheguy that social workers - two of whom were forced to live with her 24-hours a day up until just four months before she became a killer - were terrified of the 'shape shifting demon girl'.

For Dolheguy was not as she seemed on the outside to those she would interact with in the real world.

She had lived in state care since she was a 10-year old after surviving an abusive upbringing no child should ever endure.

But Dolheguy was no ordinary victim of child abuse.

She herself claimed she was possessed by a demon.

A source told Daily Mail Australia he watched a teenage Dohleguy transform into a wolf right before his eyes.

In those days, one of the best clinical minds in Australia would claim Dolheguy was 'one of most psychologically damaged he’d ever assessed’.

Her carers would not argue the point.

'One moment she appeared happy and was smiling, the next she was going ballistic - snarling and growling like a wolf and biting people,' a source said. 'It is one of the scariest things I have ever seen. It's like she was possessed.'

Like many an adult killer, Dolheguy began her criminal career as a youngster and spent long periods in juvenile detention.

Her carers would later argue she should never have been released.

Jamie Lee Dolheguy's arms are littered with the scars of her self abuse. She used her powerful arms to choke the life out of a man she had never met before

Maulin Rathod tapped frantically to signal Jamie Lee Dohleguy he wanted her to release her grip. She told police she ignored him and continued to choke him until he became a 'dead weight'

Jamie Lee Dolheguy is led into the Supreme Court of Victoria on her first day of trial last month. She had pleaded not guilty to murder amid claims she was involved in a sex game gone wrong

These were not instances of petty theft and dishonesty, but 'unbridled' violence against those closest to her.

Her victim's family were not in court for the murder trial.

The poor family from India could not afford such 'luxury'.

In August last year, Mr Rathod's sister questioned why Dolheguy had been allowed to live alone.

The then 18-year old had until four months earlier been under the constant care of her state social workers.

They catered to her every need and kept watch over her at night.

They cut her loose upon her reaching the magical age of 18 - the year the child became an adult under the eye of the law.

The carers who were employed to live with the filthy, self-harming 'wolf girl' no doubt breathed a sigh of relief.

But it would lead to inevitable, deadly consequences.

Mr Rathod’s sister, who asked not to be named, told The Age last year her family were stunned to learn his accused killer was living alone when authorities were aware she was high-risk.

'Why is the government allowing such dangerous people in public,' she said.

'We want justice for Maulin. We don't believe what went wrong.'

The release of Dolheguy has a familiar smell to it in a state fed up with known violent offenders released back into the community when the state doesn't know what to do with them.

Jamie Lee Dolheguy strikes a pose for her Instagram audience. She used filters to change the appearance of her face. She hated pretty, skinny girls and wanted to torture them

A disturbing social media post where Jamie Lee Dolheguy writes about the demon inside of her. The court heard she believed she could turn into a cat, but other's claimed she also turned into a wolf

Jill Meagher's killer Adrian Bayley and Masa Vukotic's killer Sean Price are probably the most well known.

Authorities were at a loss as to what they could do with Dolheguy upon her becoming an adult.

Like Price was released back into the community when prison staff complained about his violent outbursts, Dolheguy would be cut loose too.

Or as good as.

No longer under the full-time watch of her minders, the teenager was free to do as she pleased.

Dolheguy would tell anyone who would listen that she was dangerous.

It angered her that no-one took her seriously.

In the months leading up to the killing, she took to social media to let everyone know what was going through her warped mind.

'Sometimes when no one is looking my demon comes out to play I try and fight her but she just gets stronger,' she posted on Instagram.

'My demon is sneaky and she won’t ever let anyone stop her because if they do she will hurt them even if I tell her to stop she doesn’t care.

'So it’s ok I will be gone soon and no one will need to worry I’m done with life I’m done with all this pain and (misery) it soon will be my time and my demon will win so don’t bother (saving) me because you can’t no one can I was gone long ago I’m broken and will never be fixed.'

Dolheguy's barrister Sharon Lacy had told the jury her client had been at 'war within herself'.

Her Instagram posts, which were not revealed to the jury, showed the conflict within her mind - one minute a violent outburst, the next as soft as a kitten.

'When I was a little girl I had a heart that was soft I always forgave and had no fear I trusted people I loved people but it was never gonna last long,' she wrote.

In another post: 'I had I (a) soft heart and trusted people well now I don’t I live in fear afraid of what’s behind the corner my heart is black I no longer feel the emotions of happiness unless I see someone else suffer.'

In her own words, she described her torment at the hands of her mother after her father was jailed for a violent domestic assault.

'To all the parents out there who assault your children please think about what your doing as children sometimes what we see can never be unseen we brake easy we fall hard and sometimes we never get back,' Dolheguy posted.

Jamie Lee Dolheguy arrives to the Supreme Court of Victoria in Melbourne during her trial. She appeared to be sporting a 'love bite' on her neck

Justice Peter Almond told the jury to ignore feelings such as 'sympathy' in coming up with their verdict.

It was an intellectual process that decides one's fate, he said.

But it would have been hard for anyone to dismiss the horror that was presented to them about Dolheguy's life.

When the jury was not in the courtroom, Crown prosecutor Patrick Bourke would jump to his feet and ask that her barrister cease to try and milk evidence out of witnesses that could lead to the jury feeling 'pity' for Dolheguy.

The level of abuse suffered by Dolheguy brought at least one juror to tears.

As Dolheguy sat at the back of the courtroom crafting origami, her awful life was played out before her.

She would colour-in children's pictures, draw flowers and happy things and complete puzzles.

During the first week of her trial she entered court with what appeared to be a 'love bite'.

She would laugh and chat with her captors and 'fist bump' her legal team.

Only once did she break down under the shocking weight of evidence and recollection of her miserable life.

She was little more than a toddler when her father assaulted her mother in front of her and her siblings.

Forensic psychologist Eamonn McCarthy described the attack as 'extraordinarily violent'.

While her father was jailed, life failed to get any better for Dolheguy.

She was sexually and physically abused time and time again right up until the state stepped in when she was aged 10 and took her away.

Dr McCarthy said Dolheguy was among the most traumatised people he’d ever worked with.

She would self-harm in horrifying ways time and time again.

One time she was found at a swamp and in what was described as 'a catlike presentation', the Herald Sun reported.

Another time she stripped naked and climbed up a tree in her backyard.

Jamie Lee Dolheguy was once found up a tree in a 'cat-like' state. She was also known to turn into a wolf. She posted this photo on Instagram leading up to the killing

Jamie Lee Dolheguy enjoyed dressing up and choking people out. She should never have been free in the community when she killed her victim

Dolheguy would mutilate herself and put batteries into her body.

She endured more than 100 operations to remove foreign bodies.

Dr McCarthy said she would self harm to elicit a 'care response'.

While Dr McCarthy was called on behalf of prosecutors, Dolheguy's own defence called in the opinion of forensic psychiatrist Dr Andrew Carroll.

Ms Lacy had told the jury her client explained to police she was mentally unstable on the night of the alleged murder.

'One side of me wants to go bomb the planet, the other side of me wants to go and swim with my support workers,' Dolheguy told police. 'Yeah, and they fight 24/7, but it's me, it's me fighting with me, it's like a war zone with myself.'

While Dolheguy claimed to be a psychopath, Dr Carroll told the jury he did not believe she suffered from psychosis 'in any way'.

Psychosis by definition is 'a severe mental disorder in which thought and emotions are so impaired that contact is lost with external reality'.

Dr Carroll told the jury Dolheguy knew what she was doing was wrong when she killed Mr Rathod.

He said Dolheguy could experience extreme levels of anger over trivial matters.

'Not just anger, heightened levels of arousal,' he said. 'Pathological rage ... it's a notch above anger.'

Remarkably, the prosecution did not call a psychiatric expert of its own.

Those that brought the case against Dolheguy were at pains to explain to the jury that she was not insane.

Usually someone as outwardly mentally ill as Dolheguy might face a 'fit to stand trial' hearing, where doctors discuss whether or not the accused should even face a criminal trial.

There was no such hearing for Dolheguy, despite evidence indicating she was not quite right.

Jamie Lee Dolheguy would bounce into the Supreme Court during her trial and 'fist bump' her lawyers. Police claimed it was a facade and she is a cold-blooded killer

Maulin Rathod had answered a profile on a dating app. The profile stated the person was into 'choke play' and 'bondage'. The profile belonged to Jamie Lee Dohleguy, who would kill Mr Rathod soon after meeting him

What the jury did hear was the violent and calculated way she dispatched a man whom she had never met.

The jury sat and watched a video of the then 18-year old describe bluntly how she killed him.

Dolheguy told police she had an 'urge to kill' that she could not resist.

She compared that urge to someone who chose to smoke cigarettes.

'I had an urge ... Now I feel sick from it,' she said.

Dolheguy told police she planned to kill Mr Rathod the moment he contacted her that evening.

He had been responding to her profile on the dating app Plenty Of Fish.

She told police she 'bit people' and was into 'vampire fantasies'.

Mr Rathod ought to have known what he was getting himself into when he turned up at her Sunbury home.

Dolheguy's profile claimed she had a borderline personality disorder and suicidal tendencies.

She further claimed she had two 'extreme fetishes', including 'bondage and discipline' and being 'gang raped against her will'.

Dolheguy had not had a pleasant day when Mr Rathod made contact.

She felt she had been mucked about by her social workers and was annoyed her needs were not being immediately met.

Dolheguy pleaded not guilty to murdering Mr Rathod.

He had agreed to be choked by Dolheguy.

He was supposed to 'tap out' if he felt she was squeezing too tightly.

Dolheguy told police Mr Rathod did tap, repeatedly, but she only squeezed tighter.

When he went limp she tied the cord of her sex toy around his neck and pulled even tighter.

'He seemed to be thinking it's all a game,' she told police.

Dolheguy said his failure to believe she suffered from mental illness had angered her.

She was further angered when the police officer who attended to her triple-zero call appeared shocked upon seeing the dead body in her bedroom.

'I felt sh*t. How am I supposed to get help? Because no-one believes me,' she said.

'What was your intention?' an officer asked.

'Murder,' Dolheguy answered.

Before Mr Rathod arrived, she Googled 'I'm going to kill someone tonight for fun' before clicking on a link titled `10 Steps For Committing A Murder And Get Away With It'.

Prosecutors did not need to explain why Dolheguy decided to kill Mr Rathod.

Motive did not need to be proven.

Jamie Lee Dohleguy is led into the Supreme Court of Victoria in Melbourne. She spent the first week of the trial with a mysterious mark on her neck

Mr Bourke told the jury her mental impairment defence was a cook-up.

'In my submission to you, with respect, (it is) no more than an attempt by the accused to manufacture a defence to this charge where there is no defence,' he said.

But Ms Lacy was able to convince the jury her client did not really have killer instincts.

She outlined six key points as to why they ought find her not guilty.

'The first, because despite her homicidal urges at the core she did not want to kill him,' Ms Lacy said.

Dolheguy's actions after the killing were 'inconsistent with a murderous intent'.

She had been in a state of panic because 'she feared the awful thoughts and she didn't want to act on them'.

Dolheguy didn't expect the outcome and had wanted people to believe her about the awful thoughts in her head, the jury was told.

'And the sixth is what we say is the prosecution case theory, their argument to you, their narrative as to how this all happened is flawed and it's tunnel visioned,' Ms Lacy explained.

'Ms Dolheguy is not a murderer. She's a deeply troubled girl.

'A girl whose mind was a torrent of terrifying thoughts and emotions. Those emotions and thoughts and her fractured sense of self were the product of a childhood of neglect and abuse. You should find her not guilty of murder.'

The jury agreed.