She's preparing to take her former flame Paul Hollywood to court for £4,000 over her two horse shelters.

But Summer Monteys-Fullam put her recent drama with her ex behind her as she got into the festive spirit with a sultry lingerie snap in front of her Christmas tree.

The former barmaid, 24, looked nothing short of sensational in the photo where she donned Yuletide-inspired red and pink lingerie from Ann Summers.

Summer Monteys-Fullam, 24, put her recent drama with her ex behind her as she got into the festive spirit with a sultry lingerie snap in front of her Christmas tree

Displaying her lithe physique, Summer left little to the imagination in the snap as she posed in the skimpy bra and matching bottoms.

The beauty styled her flame-haired locks into lustrous waves while she also donned a cross necklace.

Summer was all smiles in the glamorous shot as she posed in front of her tree which was decorated with white and gold baubles.

It comes after Summer told MailOnline she's preparing to take Paul to court for £4,000 over her two horse shelters, built at his £800,000 Kent farmhouse earlier in the year.

Exclusive: Summer revealed she is gearing up to take ex Paul to court for £4,000 over her two horse shelters, built at his £800,000 Kent house earlier this year (pictured in July)

Summer claimed she'd been left with 'no alternative' but to take legal action against the Bake Off judge four months after they ended their two-year relationship.

She told MailOnline: 'All I have ever wanted was to get back what is rightfully mine - stuff I bought with my own savings... he's punishing my horses with his spite.'

The social media influencer purchased the first stable when she moved her horses to his Grade II listed home in January, and built the second in March for her mare who was pregnant.

'I'm incredibly disappointed that I've had to choose this course of action against Paul', she said. 'Dealing with Paul is a nightmare - everything is done through his lawyers.'

Ownership: The ex-barmaid purchased the first stable when she moved her horses to his Grade II listed home in January, and built the second (pictured) in March for her pregnant mare

Summer - who dropped a previous lawsuit against Paul in September - also claimed he offered to pay a 'derisory' sum of £1,000 to leave her property on his land.

She also alleged Paul is 'punishing' her animals by not returning the stables, but is not accusing her ex of endorsing animal cruelty.

'This is a very disappointing matter. On top of this, he has no need for the shelters whatsoever and is punishing my horses with his spite.

'When we first split up, it was absolutely accepted by him that they were my shelters and I could pick them up at an agreed day.

Hitting back: Summer exclusively told MailOnline she's been left with 'no alternative' but to take legal action against the Bake Off judge four months after they ended their romance

'His next position he offered me a derisory sum of £1K to leave them on his land which further served confirmation that they were in fact mine.'

She later revealed she declined his offer, and was met with a legal letter challenging her ownership just moments before the shelters were scheduled to be removed from Paul's home.

The animal enthusiast explained: 'I declined his offer and it was agreed that I'd pick the shelters up. Two days before my workmen were due to pick up the shelters, I received yet another legal letter challenging my ownership.

'He's punishing my animals with his spite!' Summer was met with a letter challenging her ownership moments before the shelters were due to be removed (pictured in September)

'I feel I have been left with no alternative but to take it to the small claims, sadly', she added.

On the report, a source close to Paul told The Sun: 'Paul's legal team have repeatedly asked for the proof of purchase but Summer has failed to hand it over. What she’s saying is meritless.'

MailOnline contacted Paul's representatives for further comment.

Earlier this year, Summer planned to sue the TV judge after he alleged on social media that she had been 'making money selling stories and continuously courting paps'.