An Australian designer has poked fun at Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison's family holiday to Hawaii with a shirt dubbed the 'Mahalo ScoMo'.

Mr Morrison was the subject of national criticism after flying overseas for a holiday on Monday as the country endures one of its worst ever bushfire seasons.

In reaction to the backlash, Melbourne-based brand Mr Koya released a limited edition Hawaiian shirt, with 100 per cent of profits going to volunteer firefighters.

Yema Akbar, 29, who is one of the creative directors for the brand, said he was left scratching his head after the Prime Minister's recent getaway.

Melbourne based brand Mr Koya released the 'Mahalo ScoMo' design on Wednesday afternoon, announcing all profits would go to the firefighters

'When reports came out that he was catching a flight to Hawaii, there was a lot of people scratching their heads and basically wondering 'Where the bloody hell are you?'' Mr Akbar told Daily Mail Australia.

'It was us trying to immortalise this moment in a tongue in cheek way.'

The 29-year-old said Mr Morrison had 'dropped the ball' so he wanted to do his part in raising funds for the firefighters.

'We're a little bit puzzled considering the nature of things currently, you want to have that comfort in your leadership,' he said.

'We wanted to display something to show the right way forward and show we support this cause while poking a little bit of fun at him.'

Prime Minister Scott Morrison (pictured with wife Jenny on a previous trip away) has been the subject of criticism after leaving for holiday while Australia faces one of its worst ever bushfire seasons

The model lashed out at Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Twitter (pictured) referencing her famous catchphrase from the Tourism Australia ad from 2006

Mr Akbar said the team was hoping Mr Morrison would buy a shirt and help donate to the cause.

'It's been great, people are saying it's the best thing they've seen all week. A lot of people are getting behind it,' he said.

On Wednesday, model Lara Worthington, 32, referenced her famous Tourism Australia catch-cry from 2006 Tweeting: 'Scott Morrison: WHERE THE BLOODY HELL ARE YOU???' - along with the hashtags #AustraliaBurns and #AustraliaFires.

Mr Morrison was the boss of Tourism Australia when a bikini-clad Worthington featured in the $186 million campaign.

Six people have died and more than 800 homes have been destroyed by the current bushfire crisis.

Firefighters have warned of devastating conditions this week as a heatwave makes it nearly impossible to battle the blazes.

With central Sydney again choking in smoke, NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian declared a state of emergency on Thursday morning for the next seven days amid fears a 415,000 hectare mega blaze could join a nearby bushfire to form a monster inferno surrounding the city.