A man has allegedly thwarted the attempted kidnapping of a disabled girl on a quiet suburban street, before heroically performing a citizen's arrest until police arrived.

Incredible footage shows the man holding the alleged attacker in a headlock by the road verge for several minutes before two officers arrived and put him in handcuffs.

Victoria Police confirmed they had taken a man into custody following an incident on Karingal Drive at Frankston, in south-east Melbourne, on Wednesday morning.

A police spokesperson said the man was undergoing a mental health assessment at Frankston Hospital.

Passerby James Duncan stopped his truck by the side of the road after noticing the pair wrestling and began filming the altercation.

A man has allegedly thwarted the attempted kidnapping of a disabled girl on a quiet suburban street in Frankston, in Melbourne's south-east, on Wednesday morning

In the confronting footage Mr Duncan can be heard asking the man what is going on as he approaches the pair.

While continuing to hold the alleged attacker in a headlock, the man replies 'he tried to pull a little girl out of a car'.

'I'm just holding him until the police arrive...,' the man says.

'I know them, so I'm not letting this m*****f***** go nowhere.'

Mr Duncan continues to film the incident as he stands watching for more than three minutes.

As the hero performing the citizen's arrest shouts abuse at the alleged attacker, Mr Duncan encourages him not to go overboard with his restraint.

The man restrains the alleged attacker in a headlock for several minutes as a passerby films the altercation

Police eventually arrived at the scene and placed the man in handcuffs, before taking him into custody (pictured). He is currently undergoing a mental health assessment in hospital

'Make sure he can breathe mate, you don't want to hurt him... you don't want to get yourself in trouble, you've done a great job,' he tells the man.

As neighbours from surrounding houses on the street come out to investigate all the commotion, two police officers arrive on the scene.

They swiftly placed the alleged attacker in handcuffs and loaded him into their car.

Footage of the incident quickly went viral after Mr Duncan posted it to his Facebook, with more than 75,000 views in the first four hours.