A 'drunken' air traveller performed a Nazi salute and yelled the N-word at horrified passengers board a WizzAir flight to Liverpool, footage obtained by MailOnline has revealed.

Footage shows the 27-year-old man, believed to be a medical student in Poland, displaying the Nazi greeting in the cabin while ranting nonsensically about race.

Cabin crew said the man had been drinking and was rude and aggressive to the staff before unleashing his rant when the plane arrived from Warsaw last Thursday.

The man was finally led off the plane by two police officers to applause from the other WizzAir passengers on board.

Police said the man had been arrested on suspicion of racially aggravated harassment and drunkenness on a plane, and released under investigation.

Rant: Footage showed a WizzAir passenger, believed to be a medical student in Poland, displaying the Nazi greeting in the cabin while ranting nonsensically about race

At the start of the clip, filmed from several rows back, the man is holding his arm out in an unmistakable Nazi salute.

He is the only traveller standing up and maintains his Nazi salute as he stares around the cabin at horrified passengers.

Not all of his words are audible in the clip, but at one point he is heard ranting about race and telling another passenger: 'Your job is to be the [N-word] of the world.'

Later on he is heard using the word 'Untermensch', a German word meaning 'sub-human' which is strongly attached to the racist worldview of the Nazis.

He also shouts out 'Sieg Heil!', a slogan adopted by the Nazis which often accompanied the Hitler salute.

Confrontation: The man, pictured left gesturing at other passengers, was finally led off the plane by two police officers to applause from the other WizzAir customers on board

Finally a police officer boards the plane and leads the man away, earning applause from some of the other customers.

The passenger who filmed the clip said he saw the man being taken to a police van, but said he was told to move along and did not see what happened next.

'It made me feel disgusted what I have seen because as a Polish citizen seeing things like that got me really angry, absolutely despicable,' the passenger said.

He described the man as a medical student in Warsaw, where the plane originated.

A Merseyside Police spokeswoman said: 'We arrested a 27 year-old man from the Lancashire area on suspicion of racial/religiously aggravated harassment and entering an aircraft when drunk/being drunk in an aircraft.

'He has been released under investigation pending further enquiries.'

MailOnline has also approached WizzAir for comment.