She's currently filming the HBO Max comedy Love Life on location in New York City.

And on Wednesday, Anna Kendrick was spotted shooting several different scenes at a subway station in Brooklyn.

The actress, 34, stars as Darby, a young woman who works for a museum tour company, and the 10-episode anthology series follows her journey 'from first love to last love'.

Looking for love: Anna Kendrick cut a forlorn figure on a subway platform in Brooklyn, NY, on Wednesday as she filmed scenes for her HBO Max streaming comedy series Love Life

For one scene, the Pitch Perfect star was seen standing forlornly by herself on the subway platform.

She wore a dark green Parka with faux fur trim around the hood and a rust-colored knit beanie pulled down over her hair that was in two braids.

She had on a two-tone brown sweater and blue skinny jeans along with gray sneakers and she carried a small backpack.

It takes two: For another scene, Kendrick was joined by co-star Scoot McNairy for a scene in which they're sat on a bench on the subway platform cuddled up to each other

For another scene, Kendrick was joined by co-star Scoot McNairy.

The actor, 42, plays her character's boss Bradley, the owner of the museum tour company.

According to THR.com, Bradley has a beautiful fiancee but also has a roving eye and has his sights on Darby.

Kendrick and McNairy shot a romantic scene in which they're sat on a bench on the subway platform cuddled up to each other.

McNairy has one arm around Kendrick's shoulders while she has one hand placed on his leg as she leans into him.

Earlier in the week, Kendrick sported a fake pregnancy bump as she shot scenes for the streaming show with another co-star, British actor Kingsley Ben-Adir.

The pair braved the chilly weather for the shoot that took place on the side of the Hudson river in the Big Apple.

'From first love to last love': Earlier in the week, Kendrick sported a fake pregnancy bump as she shot scenes for the streaming show with another co-star, British actor Kingsley Ben-Adir

Relaxing: Kendrick, 34, posted this photo to her Instagram on Monday that looked to be taken in her hotel room ahead of location filming this week

Kendrick came to prominence with an Oscar-nominated turn in the 2009 movie Up In The Air with George Clooney.

She has gone on to enjoy box office success in the three Pitch Perfect movies.

She can currently be seen in the Disney Plus Christmas movie Noelle with Shirley Maclaine and Bill Hader and in January, she will be seen in the sci-fi thriller Stowaway opposite Toni Collette and Daniel Dae Kim.