Gwyneth Paltrow took her top off in front of a group of friends during a game of Truth or Dare — which was all filmed for her website, Goop.

Gwyneth, 47, played a round of drinking games for a new Goop video, joking around with actress Sara Foster, 38, Goop's Director of Wellness Kelly Burke, Goopfellas podcast cohost Seamus Mullen, and Goop's Associate Solutions Architect Brian James.

And when the Oscar winner was dared to take off an item of clothing, she barely hesitated before gaming stripping off her sweater.

Scroll down for video

Ooh-la-la! Gwyneth Paltrow took her top off in front of a group of friends during a game of Truth or Dare — which was all filmed for her website, Goop

Wild child: Gwyneth, 47, played a round of drinking games for a new Goop video, joking around with several Goop staffers and fellow actress Sara Foster

Taking it off! When she picked a dare out of a bowl, it challenged her to remove a piece of clothing — and she was already barefoot

Up for anything: Gwyneth reacted with a scream and looked shocked, but she also laughed and gamely did the dare

Feelin' sporty: So pulled her striped sweater up over her head, showing off a simple black bra underneath, as well as her microphone pack

The video was made as part of a sponsored post for Drinkworks, and the group sips cocktails as they play three drinking games.

The first, celebrity impressions, is rather tame, but Truth Or Dare gets raunchy.

After Seamus and Brian pick random truths and dares out of a bowl, Gwyneth grudgingly agrees to do a dare.

'I hate doing dares,' she says.

It turns out she is right to hate it — since her slip of paper challenges her to 'remove one piece of clothing.'

Gwyneth reacts with a scream and looks shocked, but also throws her head back and laughs.

The rest of the group goes wild, as Sara chants: 'Take your top off!'

Nothing to hide! Sara Foster chanted for her to take her top off

Whoops! She smiled but looked a bit embarrassed, turning around and waiting a moment before asking, 'Can I put my clothes back on?'

She's done! After getting dressed again, she said: 'The top is staying on. I'm not even wearing a good bra you guys'

Cheese! They also shared confessions and posed together for a selfie

Gwyneth admits she is bummed she is already barefoot, and isn't really left with an easy way out of this one.

So the star reaches down and pulls her striped sweater up over her head, showing off a simple black bra underneath, as well as her microphone pack.

She smiles but looks a bit embarrassed, turning around and waiting a moment before she asks, 'Can I put my clothes back on?'

As they move on to game number three, Gwyneth gets re-dressed and adds: 'The top is staying on. I'm not even wearing a good bra you guys.'

In the last came, confessions and lies, Gwyneth has to tell a story, after which her friends guess where it's a confession or a lie.

Gwyneth confesses to a real-life experience.

'When I was a senior in high school I got a week of in school suspension. The reason that I got it is because someone had carved something obscene in the table of the library,' she said.

Naked: Gwyneth's topless moment isn't much of a shock, since the star has stripped for films like Great Expectations (pictured)

Stripped: She was also topless for a love scene in Shakespeare in Love (pictured) and another in the movie Two Lovers

Health: In November she shared a topless snap while revealing she had a radiation-free ultrasound

At some prodding, she admits that it was a penis. But, she insisted, another girl did it while she was nearby.

'But I took the fall for it and I did not turn her in,' she said.

Gwyneth's topless moment isn't much of a shock, since the star is frequently pictured in even skimpier swimsuits.

She's also taken her clothes off for several films, going totally topless for 2009's Two Lovers and 1998's Shakespeare in Love.

She also recently posed topless, with just suspenders covering her breasts, for Elle magazine, and in November shared a topless snap while revealing she had a radiation-free ultrasound.