He's been desperately trying to mend his broken relationship with Tammy Hembrow by regularly sharing cryptic social media posts.

And despite a number of failed attempts, it appears Canadian rapper Jahkoy Palmer, 25, is still hopeful his former flame will give things another go.

Taking to Instagram on Wednesday, he shared another photo of the couple taken in a window reflection, sharing a kiss and wrote: '1 of 1.'

He won't give up! Jahkoy Palmer has shared ANOTHER post about his ex-girlfriend Tammy Hembrow after begging for her back amid their messy split

It comes after Jahkoy insisted that Tammy is 'mine' when asked by a fan to describe his ex-girlfriend in one word, over the weekend.

The singer also included a close-up photo of himself and Tammy, 25, cuddling on a bed together.

Moment earlier, the rapper had shared a photo of himself sitting in the back seat of a car alongside the cryptic caption: 'You keep me around you want me beside you.'

While it is unclear whether the post was actually talking about Tammy, his followers were quick to speculate that it may have been.

Time to move on? Jahkoy has been trying to mend his relationship with Tammy Hembrow by posting cryptic social media posts ever since they split in November

Hmm: On Sunday, Jahkoy insisted that Tammy is 'mine' when asked by a fan to describe his ex-girlfriend in one word

Earlier this month, Jahkoy also shared a snap of the pair kissing in a hotel room and wrote a lengthy post, denying he cheated on her and vowing to be a 'better man.'

'I'm sorry that I took you for granted. I know how much s**t you put up with for me and I will always cherish you for it. I want to pride myself in being a better man for myself and for my woman,' he wrote.

Despite his endless attempts to reunite with his ex-girlfriend, Tammy laughed about the idea when questioned about her relationship by Daily Mail Australia on Tuesday.

'I'm sorry that I took you for granted': Earlier this month, Jahkoy shared another snap of the pair kissing in a hotel room and wrote a lengthy post, denying he cheated on her and vowing to be a 'better man'

When asked if there's any unfinished business with the Canadian rapper, the 25-year-old failed to even respond and instead giggled.

Meanwhile, Tammy and Jahkoy debuted their romance in June, but have split up and rekindled their romance several times in the past few months.

The pair have also unfollowed and re-followed each other on Instagram on more than one occasion.