Simon Cowell was snapped on the beach during day one of his annual Christmas trip to Barbados on Wednesday, sporting a painful-looking black eye.

The music mogul, 60, wore shades to the beach, masking the injury, as he accompanied his son Eric, five, to the shore for a spot of jet-skiing.

But as he removed his sunglasses for a brief moment to check his phone, Simon's black mark was very obvious, just below the eye.

Ouch! Simon Cowell was snapped on the beach during day one of his annual Christmas trip to Barbados on Wednesday, sporting a painful-looking black eye

The sore bruise happened during the evening of the X Factor: Celebrity finale, last month.

After the event, he headed home and knocked himself in the eye with his own front door.

The bruise was subsequently covered up with make-up during his next live TV appearance, which took place last Sunday, for X Factor: The Band.

A source said: 'The bruising happened when Simon hit his face on his front door and it also cut him above the eye.

Sore: The sore bruise happened during the evening of the X Factor: Celebrity finale, last month. After the event, he headed home and knocked himself in the eye with his own front door

Eye eye: But as he removed his sunglasses for a brief moment to check his phone, Simon's black mark was very obvious, just below the eye

'It’s been covered by make-up since then, when he was filming last Sunday’s show.'

The Cowells are back in Barbados for their annual Christmas jaunt, with Simon wasting no time whipping his shirt off to showcase his sensational weight loss, after switching to a vegan lifestyle in 2019.

The music manager showed off the fruits of his labour, his newly taut stomach on display, as he headed to the ocean with Eric.

Simon - who whisks his partner, Eric's mother, Lauren Silverman, 42, and their son off to the same resort at Christmastime every year - looked great as he walked along the sand in inky grey shorts.

Covered up: The bruise was subsequently covered up with make-up during his next live TV appearance, which took place last Sunday, for X Factor: The Band

A source said: 'The bruising happened when Simon hit his face on his front door and it also cut him above the eye'

Showcasing his trim physique, the X Factor judge appeared more than happy to be on his vacation - having to leave a little later this year thanks to his series X Factor: The Band only finishing on Sunday.

He donned a bright blue life jacket and shades as he and Eric hit the water for some fun on a jetski.

Eric couldn't wait to get involved, trotting alongside his dad in a matching vest.

Surf's up! The music manager showed off the fruits of his labour, his newly taut stomach on display, as he headed to the ocean with his five-year-old son Eric for a splash in the crystalline waters

Before and after: Exactly one year ago [pictured left] Simon was at the same resort, indulging in the same water-sports, but looking far less trim. He is seen, right, on Wednesday

Trim: Simon was no doubt eager to show off the results of his vegan diet

The youngster added orange shorts and a white and orange wetsuit top to his beach look, wearing goggles on his head in preparation for the dip in the sea.

The pair were helped on the jetskis by some of the hotel beach staff and were soon riding the waves.

Fans of Simon appeared to happen upon the pair, stopping for a chat with the One Direction manager.