A top designer is being mocked for creating what critics are calling 'ramen shoes.'

Italian fashion brand Bottega Veneta just presented its Pre-Fall 2020 collection that, in addition to plenty of wearable dresses and coats, includes a standout piece of footwear.

The yellow open-toed mule sandals feature a woven design that many people are comparing to uncooked instant ramen.

See it? Bottega Veneta's macramé-style open-toed mules are being compared to uncooked ramen noodles after they were unveiled at the brand's Pre-Fall 2020 presentation this week

Hard to miss: The fashion watchdog Instagram account DietPrada posted side-by-side comparisons of the shoes and an open pack of instant ramen noodles

The fashion watchdog Instagram account DietPrada posted side-by-side comparisons of the shoes and an open pack of instant ramen noodles.

The post has earned over 80,000 likes and countless comments, including one from someone who asked: 'Seasoning packet included or nah?'

'Cheap and tasteless - I meant both,' wrote one woman.

'Guess she’ll be ready in 3-4 mins?' someone else commented.

Another asked: 'Are these hot water proof?'

Several people also chimed in to compare the look to the platinum blond curls Justin Timberlake famously sported in the early 2000s during his NSYNC days.

Options: The Italian fashion brand is also offering a closed-toe version of the yellow mules

Hungry for fashion: The closed-toe mules feature the same woven design

'@justintimberlake old hairdo strikes back lol,' one person joked.

'JT needs his commish!' added another.

A few Instagram users couldn't resist referencing popular a meme of the pop star singing NSYNC's 'It's Gonna Be Me,' with one writing: 'It's gonna be Maaayyy.'

Then there were those who found it ironic that shoes that seemed to be inspired by a go-to food for broke college kids could never be bought by those same broke college kids.

'These prob cost around $1k so do not waste your money unless they are chicken flavor,' one Instagram user insisted.

The critics all got a good kick out of the shoe design, with one person pointing out that 'the memes just make themselves at this point.'

Throwback: Several people chimed in to compare the design to the platinum blond curls Justin Timberlake famously sported in the early 2000s during his NSYNC days

But there were people who were admittedly a fan of the noodle-inspired look.

'Makes me want them even more honestly,' confessed one fan.

Both lovers and haters will be happy to know that the brand is also offering a closed-toe version of the macramé-style mules.

And while people are laughing now, they may be singing a different tune if the high-fashion item becomes the season's hottest must-have accessory.

Bottega Veneta's creative director Daniel Lee turned the brand's square-toe shoes and leather handbags 'It' items after his debut runway show for Fall 2019.

It's possible that he'll be having the last laugh when it comes to the shoes' popularity in the new year.