She has found fame from starring in movies such as The Great Gatsby, Drive and Never Let Me Go.

And hoping to use her profile to raise awareness of dementia, Carey Mulligan was seen putting on a festive display as she attended the Alzheimer's Society's annual Carols at Christmas service at Southwark Cathedral on Wednesday.

The actress, 34, who is an ambassador for the charity, held this year's service in memory of her grandmother, as she candidly spoke of her relative's 'heartbreaking' battle with dementia.

Good cause: Carey Mulligan put on a festive display as she attended the Alzheimer's Society's annual Carols at Christmas service at Southwark Cathedral on Wednesday

Carey's grandmother passed away at the age of 91 in 2017 following a 16-year battle with Alzheimer's.

The irreversible, progressive brain disorder slowly sufferers' memories and cognitive functions, and left the actress' relative unable to utter more than a few words.

Speaking at the event, Carey, who looked chic in a pair of wide-legged cobalt blue trousers and a matching knitted jumper, urged others to spend time with loved ones suffering from the illness.

She explained: 'People living with dementia and their families often feel alone and don’t have enough support.

'I’m proud to see the developments in research, but while we power progress for a cure, everyone affected by dementia must have somewhere to turn to for help and advice.'

Tribute: Carey held this year's service in memory of her late grandmother, who passed away age 91 in 2017 a 16-year battle with Alzheimer's

Doing her bit: The actress, 34, who is an ambassador for the charity, was joined by her fellow Suffragette star Anne-Marie Duff (R)

Tribute: Carey spoke of her grandmother's 'heartbreaking' battle with dementia, while urging those to 'spend time' with loved ones suffering from the illness

'Dementia is heart-breaking, but it is possible to live well with dementia. Nan's taught me that,' Carey said, while sharing her own experience.

'This Christmas, if you have a loved one with dementia, spend time with them. Love them, the same way you always have,' she urged.

'And please, if you can, give a Christmas gift to Alzheimer’s Society so we can make sure no one with dementia faces it alone.'

She was joined at the service by her fellow Suffragette star Anne-Marie Duff and Harry Potter star David Bradley, who is known for playing the role of Hogwarts' care-taker Argus Filch.

Familiar face: She was joined at the service by Harry Potter star David Bradley, who is known for playing the role of Hogwarts' care-taker Argus Filch

Good spirits: Carey was seen sharing a laugh with David, Ann-Marie and actor Paul Ready

David stars in Ricky Gervais' Netflix series, After Life, in which his character suffered from dementia.

'When you're playing a part, you know it's not real life,' David said. 'I can only imaging how devastating dementia is - to learn you have it, to come to terms with it and deal with the impact on families and friends.'

He added: 'What I do know is that we must do all we can to make sure everyone with dementia has somewhere to turn to after a dementia diagnosis, and fund research into the diseases causing dementia, because it’s something we just have to get rid of.'

Helping hand: David stars in Ricky Gervais' Netflix series, After Life, in which his character suffered from dementia and said he can only imagine how 'devastating' the diagnosis can be

Stellar line-up: The actors and actresses were on hand to raise awareness of dementia in aid of the Alzheimer's Society this festive season

Meanwhile, Carey has just wrapped up filming on her latest project; Promising Young Woman.

The film marks the feature writing and directing debut of Emerald Fennell, known for her work on Killing Eve, and tells the story of a young woman seeking out vengeance against men who cross her path, after being left traumatised by a past event.

It also stars Laverne Cox, Adam Brody, Jennifer Coolidge, Molly Shannon, Max Greenfield and Christopher Mintz-Plasse, and is set for release in April 2020.