Love Island star Justin Lacko has announced he and his pregnant ex-girlfriend Anita Barone-Scott will do a gender reveal this weekend.

Taking to his Instagram, the 29-year-old shared a snap of Anita flaunting her blossoming baby bump.

'Boy or girl this weekend,' he wrote, referring to the gender reveal.

Love Island star Justin Lacko has announced he and his pregnant ex-girlfriend Anita Barone-Scott (pictured) will do a gender reveal this weekend

'Here I come Perth.'

Anita looked every inch the glowing expectant mother, wearing a loose-fitting white maternity dress in the casual snap.

The beauty had her blonde tresses perfectly coiffed for the snap, allowing them to fall around her shoulders.

Glowing and gorgeous: Taking to his Instagram, the 29-year-old shared a snap of Anita flaunting her blossoming baby bump

Anita has recently just passed the 20-week mark for her pregnancy.

In a series of snaps last week, the blonde beauty donned a skimpy black bikini as she showed off the blossoming bump.

Another saw her lifting a black T-shirt to reveal the bump while dressed in pyjama pants.

Radiant: Anita (pictured) has flaunted her bump a number of times over the past few weeks. She is now at the 20-week mark in her pregnancy

Justin revealed that he's expecting his first child with Anita, last month.

'LIFE! I can't believe this is happening but it's the best news to hear and I am very excited to share with you all that I'm going to be a daddy,' he wrote on Instagram at the time.

He added: 'Here's to celebrating my last year of my 20s and becoming a daddy in 2020.'

Baby joy: Justin revealed that he's expecting his first child with Anita, last month

Appearing on the Kyle and Jackie O Show soon after, Justin revealed why he split with his former flame.

He explained that the couple's relationship was casual and they have dated each other on-and-off for five years.

'You know you can't force something that's not really meant to be there,' he said of the demise of their romantic relationship.

Thrilled: 'LIFE! I can't believe this is happening but it's the best news to hear and I am very excited to share with you all that I'm going to be a daddy,' he wrote on Instagram at the time

'I have all the support in the world, and she's beautiful, and I adore her.

'But I just think that this situation where it is now is probably the right thing for both of us.'

He added: 'I'm not one of these people that abandon someone in a situation like this so I'm taking full responsibility for everything.'