Drivers who toss lit cigarettes from vehicle windows will be slapped with five demerit points under new penalties introduced by the NSW government.

Police and Emergency Services Minister David Elliott on Thursday said the new rules would come into place in mid-January.

If they commit the offence during a total fire ban the penalty will double to 10 demerit points and a fine of up to $11,000 - enough for provisional and learner drivers to immediately lose their licence.

Penalties would apply to both drivers and passengers.

"One cigarette could cost you your licence and so I make no apology for that - I think I join the rest of the community in saying enough is enough," Mr Elliott told reporters in Sydney.

More than 200 people have been caught throwing lit cigarette butts in 2019.

"In my own electorate so far this year there's been three bushfires started because motorists have thrown out cigarette butts onto dry grass," Mr Elliott said.

"As far as I'm concerned, you should be treated the same as an arsonist would be."

Rural Fire Service Association secretary Steve Robinson urged members of the public to report anyone seen throwing lit cigarette butts out their vehicle window.

Double demerits will also be in place over the festive period as police start a high-visibility operation over Christmas and the new year.

The double demerits will apply from midnight on Thursday until 11.59pm on Wednesday, January 1 for speeding, seatbelt, mobile phone and motorcycle helmet offences.

The road toll for 2019 in NSW stands at 339 deaths, Assistant Commissioner Michael Corboy told reporters.

"Someone listening to this message today will die on our roads in the next two weeks. That is a sad fact ... I don't want you to be that person who dies over the next two weeks," Mr Corboy said.

"Don't drive fatigued, don't drive (and) drink, don't drive with drugs in your system."

With a number of main arterial roads affected by bushfires, Mr Corboy also urged motorists to check the latest fire and traffic information before travelling.