Democratic Rep. Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii was the only member of her party to vote 'present' on two articles of impeachment against President Donald Trump during Wednesday's historic vote.

Gabbard, a Democratic presidential candidate, did not speak on the floor while leaders of both parties doled out slots in 30-second and one-minute increments. When the voting finally occurred Wednesday night, she voted 'present' on both an abuse of power article and one accusing Trump of obstructing Congress by thwarting the impeachment inquiry.

She was seen standing agains the back wall of the chamber on the side where Republicans sit during the second vote.

She said in a written statement: 'After doing my due diligence in reviewing the 658-page impeachment report, I came to the conclusion that I could not in good conscience vote either yes or no.'

She added: 'I am standing in the center and have decided to vote Present. I could not in good conscience vote against impeachment because I believe President Trump is guilty of wrongdoing.'

Democratic presidential candidate U.S. Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, D-Hawaii voted 'present' on two articles of impeachment against President Trump

But she said a president must not be removed through a ‘partisan process’ that is ‘fueled by tribal animosities.’

Her statement tried to position Gabbard as a sensible centrist, then characterized Trump defenders as saying his conduct was 'perfect' and Democrats of using 'extreme' rhetoric.

'On the one side — The president’s defenders insist that he has done nothing wrong. They agree with the absurd proclamation that his conduct was “perfect.” They have abdicated their responsibility to exercise legitimate oversight, and instead blindly do the bidding of their party’s leader,' she said.

'On the other side — The president’s opponents insist that if we do not impeach, our country will collapse into dictatorship. All but explicitly, they accuse him of treason. Such extreme rhetoric was never conducive to an impartial fact-finding process,' she continued.

Two of her Democratic colleagues, Collin Peterson of Minnesota and Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey, voted 'no' on impeachment. Both represent districts where Trump outperformed Hillary Clinton.

Rep. Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii is seeking a vote on a resolution to censure President Trump

Her defiant vote came after Gabbard threw a wrench into the vote with her call to censure, rather than impeach, Trump.

A censure vote, if allowed on the House floor, might have allowed Democrats who are still on the fence with an alternative that stopped short of impeachment – although House Democrats have been gelling around two impeachment articles coming to a vote.

However the leadership-controlled Rules Committee voted out a procedure that did not make her proposal in order.

Democratic lawmakers also pushed censure as an alternative during the Bill Clinton impeachment, but it never prevailed, and didn't get sufficient votes to clear the Senate.

Gabbard was the only lawmaker to vote 'present' on the abuse of power and obstruction of Congress articles of impeachment

ABC News reported Gabbard's push Tuesday. Gabbard is seeking the Democratic presidential nomination, but did not qualify for Wednesday's debate in Los Angeles, having failed to meet a polling threshold.

Gabbard, who has been undecided on impeachment, has not qualified for Wednesday's debate in Los Angeles, which coincides with the impeachment vote

First lady Melania Trump arrives to stand for photos with President Donald Trump and Guatemalan President Jimmy Morales at the White House, Tuesday, Dec. 17, 2019, in Washington. Trump blasted the impeachment effort in an indignant letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi

Rep. Jamie Raskin (D-MD) and Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA) testify during a House Rules Committee hearing on the impeachment against President Donald Trump, on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., December 17, 2019

'I'm taking this time for myself to be able to review everything that's happened all the information that's been put forward,' she said at Furman University in South Carolina Monday, as she remained 'undecided' on impeachment vote lists.

'And just all the factors that go into really trying to figure out what what is the best action to take for our country. And for democracy. It's not a simple or easy decision to make,' she said.

Gabbard angered some Democrats when she clashed with Hillary Clinton this year, but she has been popular in unscientific online polls after debates.