She recently admitted she's ready to find her 'soulmate' after six years as a singleton.

And Ashley James was in the right place to find love on Wednesday evening, as she got glammed up and headed to dating app Bumble's Slay Bells Christmas party.

The former Made In Chelsea star, 32, will no doubt have caught the eye in her tiny bright green ruched mini dress, which highlighted her killer curves.

Looking for love! Ashley James was in the right place to find love on Wednesday evening, as she got glammed up and headed to dating app Bumble's Christmas party

The minuscule number also put Ashley's more than ample assets on display, as she teased her cleavage in the sexy festive-themed number.

Ashley teamed her frock with a pair of strappy bejewelled high heels, which elongated her lithe limbs as she struck a pose for the cameras.

The reality star wore her blonde bobbed tresses in loose waves and accentuated her pretty features with a bronze pallet of make-up.

Wow: The former Made In Chelsea star, 32, will no doubt have caught the eye in her tiny bright green ruched mini dress, which highlighted her killer curves

Busty babe: The minuscule number also put Ashley's more than ample assets on display, as she teased her cleavage in the sexy festive-themed number

Blonde beauty: The reality star wore her blonde bobbed tresses in loose waves and accentuated her pretty features with a bronze pallet of make-up

During the candid interview, Ashley also revealed that she's finally ready to find her 'soulmate' after six years of being single, but doesn't plan on using dating apps as she's pinning her search for Mr Right on finding a genuine connection.

She previously dated The Xtra Factor host Matt Richardson, but the couple split in 2014.

Ashley added: 'I've been officially single for six years and I feel like I'm really pleased I've had that time in a way because I've got to do loads of things that people miss out on, like I'll do couples' things with my friends.

Chic: Model Neelam Gill flashed her washboard abs in a tiny crop top and matching skirt

Work it: Neelam put on a leggy display in the tiny skirt complete with strappy heels

'I put a lot of investment into my friendship but I definitely feel like I'm ready to meet the right person, but I'll never settle. Being on my own has given me an appreciation of knowing I can be happy by myself.

'I'm in a position where I don't need to financially rely on anyone, but still I'm a hopeless romantic and I've had my heart broken.

'It's hardest because the older you get the fussier you are, but I'm ready and I'm looking forward to meeting my soulmate, but whether that's next week or in two years I don't know.'

Glam: Amber Le Bon looked elegant in a black jumpsuit which she accessorised with a gold belt

Sleek: The daughter of Simon and Yasmin Le Bon looked effortlessly chic for the appearance

When asked whether she's planning to find her man through a dating app, or in the old-fashion way, Ashley said: 'I don’t really have a physical type so I find it hard with online dating apps, I find it’s important having a connection, what if the love of your like puts up a gym selfie?

'I’d think he’s put up a gym selfie absolutely not. I feel with the dating apps I think they’re great and I know people that are married from meeting on dating apps, but any time I’ve met someone it’s from an instant connection.

'I wouldn’t be opposed to it but for me natural connections is important, but I wouldn’t say I’m a traditionalist, I don’t want to get married but I’d love a big family.'

Egdy: Singer Dionne Bromfield rocked a quirky pink jacket with blue jeans

90s chic: She styled her pale pink top with a pair of wide-legged boyfriend style jeans

Hunks: Made In Chelsea's Alex Mytton and Try Star singer Thom Evans were also in attendance