Sir Ron Brierley was born in New Zealand and became an investor in Australia

Millionaire businessman Sir Ron Brierley has been charged with the possession of child pornography.

The 82-year-old was arrested at Sydney International Airport while on route to Fiji on Tuesday at 6.30am.

Brierley was born in Wellington, New Zealand, and was one of the most feared investors in corporate Britain in the 1980s and 90s.

He retired this year after a career spanning 60 years.

He was knighted in 1988 and is a former trustee of the Sydney Cricket Ground.

Brierley's arrest followed an investigation by Eastern Suburbs Police Area Command, launched in August, into child abuse material in the area.

He allegedly had 207,000 child abuse images and 500 videos at the time of the search, The Australian reported, and more electronic devices were seized when his mansion was searched.

Police described the material as 'very sexualised, not violent' and 'involving young children' - and Brierley said he found the material 'interesting'.

The investor was feared in his native New Zealand and Britain during his career.

His created the most valuable company in New Zealand before becoming the chairman of the investment company Guinness Peat, which had a London listing.

A feared corporate raider, he took over or bought stakes in several underperforming companies, including British ones.

He cut costs, got rid of complacent managers and publicly rebuked directors.

Brierley outside Whitehall on the day of a Vickers PLC Annual General Meeting in 1990

Brierley was knighted in 1988 (left) and is a former trustee of the Sydney Cricket Ground. He retired this year after a career spanning 60 years

Brierley often targeted inefficient, family-owned businesses which earned him a formidable reputation.

In 2001 he publicly criticised and beat an attempt to merge the London Stock Exchange with Deutsche Börse, its German rival.

He hit the headlines in the summer for his role as a patron of a celebrity cricket match at Chippinghurst Manor, seven miles southeast of Oxford.

The match raised money for the charity Wellbeing of Women, which is dedicated to improving the health of women and babies by funding medical research.

It was hosted by Sir Victor Blank, the former chairman of Lloyds bank and Mirror Group Newspapers, and was attended by several former England cricketers and celebrities.

In a statement, NSW Police said he was arrested at Sydney International Airport on Tuesday about 6.30am.

Brierley, who lives in the eastern Sydney suburb of Point Piper, was stopped at the airport by Australian Border Force officers.

Detectives searched his carry-on luggage before the contents of his laptop and electronic storage devices were reviewed.

He was taken to Mascot Police Station and charged with six counts of possess child abuse material.

He has been granted strict conditional bail and is due to appear at Downing Centre Local Court on Monday 10 February.

He was ordered to stay at his luxury harbour-side home in Sydney and told to appear in court on February 10