She's in the middle of a press blitz to promote her first album in five years.

But Selena Gomez was able to enjoy a shopping break on Wednesday.

The 27-year-old pop star carried multiple bags as she left Urban Outfitters wearing a oversize graphic tee with grey 'Malibu' sweatpants.

On-the-go: Selena Gomez got a moment off-duty to satiate her taste for shopping on Wednesday as she left Urban Outfitters with multiple bags

She wore her hair in a tousled bun and sheltered her feet with black suede boots.

The sighting comes two days after Gomez revealed that being 'genuine' is the best way to win her heart.

During a visit to Capital FM radio show on Monday, Gomez got a pre-recorded question from fellow singer Jason Derulo on the best ways to win her over.

Selena said: 'I like group situations. So, I find that that's what makes me comfortable, if they're someone maybe I know of someone I know.'

Comfy: The 27-year-old pop star wore a oversize graphic tee with grey sweatpants that read Malibu on the side

She added: 'I tend to like to be approached in a natural, organic way. And I hope that whoever is doing that is actually interested in me and not really my name. So, it's pretty hard, but that's usually the best way.'

The Look at Her Now singer went on to share what she looks for in a new guy and what she avoids.

'I love genuine, you know?,' she said. 'I feel like in the first five seconds, I can tell if I'm meeting someone that just wants one thing.'

Laid-back: She wore her hair in a tousled bun and sheltered her feet with black suede boots

She trusts her intuition heavily in early meetings, saying 'I can tell when it's a good group of guys and they're cool.'

For characteristics she said, 'I love funny. I don't like arrogant. I don't like show off-y. I love playful and adventurous, but really down to earth and cool.'

Selena previously was in a long-term off and on relationship with Justin Bieber from 2010 until 2018, months before he married Hailey Baldwin Bieber.

Recently, she has been linked to former One Direction member Niall Horan, though the Ireland native said he was 'very much single,' earlier this month.

Selena's upcoming album, Rare, will be released on January 10, 2020 and will contain songs with titles such as Cut You Off.