She has been hitting the latest showbiz parties since arriving in London after her stint in Beverley Hills.

And Hana Cross put on a fashionable display as she attended the Decorte Dinner at The Arts Club in London on Wednesday.

The model, 21, looked effortlessly stylish in a PVC blazer, while Real Housewives of Cheshire star Missé Beqiri, 33, put on a very leggy display in checked boots.

She's got style: Hana Cross put on a fashionable display as she attended the Decorte Dinner at The Arts Club in London on Wednesday

Hana layered the jacket atop of a cropped polo neck, which she teamed with a silver cross necklace.

She complemented her all-black ensemble with denim jeans and patent ankle boots.

Styling her brunette hair in a low ponytail, Hana appeared in her element as she posed moodily for the camera.

All eyes on her: Real Housewives of Cheshire star Missé Beqiri, 33, put on a very leggy display in checked boots and a silk mini dress

Casually-cool: Hana, 21, looked effortlessly stylish in a PVC blazer which sheathed over her slender frame

Strike a pose: Teasing a hint of her abs, the model complemented her all-black ensemble with denim jeans and patent ankle boots

All in the details: Hana layered the jacket atop of a cropped polo neck, which she teamed with a silver cross necklace

Missé, meanwhile, cut a glamorous figure as she joined a night off from mummy duties to attend the Christmas beauty bash.

The reality star also opted for a black outfit which comprised of a silk mini dress and oversized blazer.

Missé showed off her extremely tanned and toned legs in grey checked knee-high boots and added extra pizzazz to her outfit with a glittering silver choker.

The girls appeared in high spirits during their night out and shared a slew of snaps on their Instagram of themselves enjoying cocktails and a fancy meal.

Stunning: Missé, meanwhile, cut a glamorous figure as she joined a night off from mummy duties to attend the Christmas beauty bash

Partying the night away: Hana was joined by Betty Bachz, who stood out from the crowd in a white puff ball dress

Working it: The girls appeared in their element as they posed up a storm for photos

It comes after Missé sparked speculation she had split from Jake Hall, after they unfollowed each other on social media in October.

But the Real Housewives of Cheshire beauty attended a Disney event with Jake and their two-year-old daughter River last month.

And it appears the couple are firmly back on with Missé sharing a loved-up family holiday snap last week. She captioned the sweet photo: 'My happy place'.

Hana, meanwhile, has moved on from her turbulent romance with Brooklyn Beckham and is now dating Nasser Alfallah, who is a Loyola Marymount University student in Los Angeles and is originally from Kuwait.

Girls' night out: Jordan Grant posed with Missé at the festive Christmas bash

Having a blast: The girls appeared in high spirits during their night out and shared a slew of snaps on their Instagram of themselves enjoying cocktails and a fancy meal

Back in September, reports surfaced Victoria and David were relieved when Brooklyn and Hana split in the summer after nine months together.

A source told The Sun at the time: 'Brooklyn and Hana have called off their romance for good. David and Victoria very glad and relieved and are backing him 100 per cent.'

MailOnline contacted the Beckham's representatives for comment at the time.