She was a beloved childhood star soon set to return to her roots.

Hilary Duff of Lizzie McGuire and Younger fame was spotted striking a slim and athletic figure in Studio City, California on Wednesday, smiling widely as she grabbed lunch on the go.

Duff, 32, donned a cute all-black ensemble for the outing, save for her tennis shoes, which were white.

Girl on the go: Hilary Duff of Lizzie McGuire fame was spotted striking a slim and athletic figure in Studio City on Wednesday, smiling widely

Hilary wore a thick knit black hoodie on her head for the Los Angeles winter weather, as she carried grub from Sweetgreens in the North Hollywood neighborhood.

The mother-of-two had on a black t-shirt knotted at the waist, which she matched with a flattering pair of black leggings.

Duff sported a pair of retro light-colored sunglasses, and carried a chic black handbag on her shoulder.

The actress's manicure was bright red and her shoulder-length blond bob peeked out from under her thick cap.

Look both ways: Duff donned a cute all-black ensemble for the outing, save for her tennis shoes, which were white

Duff is currently filming the sequel series Lizzie McGuire, which will catch up with the enterprising young woman, now a 30-year-old living in New York.

Due in 2020, the premiere episode of the new show already has a title: 13 Going On 30.

The show will be aired on the new Disney+ streaming platform.

Healthy woman: Duff is currently filming the sequel series Lizzie McGuire; seen here on her Instagram feed

Aside from that passion project, Hilary recently wrapped up work on the sixth season of TV Land's Younger in September, after it was renewed for a seventh season in July.

The dramedy, which also stars Broadway veteran Sutton Foster, is now the longest running original series for TV Land, which primarily focuses on classic television.

Hilary is mother to son Luca, seven, who she shares with ex-husband Mike Comrie, as well as daughter Banks, 13 months, with fiancé Matthew Koma.