Rachel Brosnahan channeled classic city slicker while bundled up in a fierce black outfit on Wednesday.

The star was in New York City, where she rocked a single-breasted black peacoat with gold buttons and matching skinny jeans.

The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel actress, 29, also went with an impressive pair of black lace-up boots, and accessorized with a black handbag and a set of gold rings.

All black everything: Rachel Brosnahan channeled classic city slicker as she brandished a fierce black outfit scampering around New York City on Wednesday

Despite being on a promotion tear for the third season of Maisel, Amazon's hit comedy about a Jewish housewife-turned-comedian, the star looked fresh and full of energy.

The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel received eight Emmy nominations in 2019 and took home four.

And on Tuesday night, the leading actress was at Manhattan's 92nd Street Y community center for a panel moderated by Glamour's Jessica Radloff to keep the hype going.

'My friend @jessicaradloff14 flew her jetlagged a** into NYC to chat with my post-wrap self and boy is she the greatest,' Rachel wrote in an Instagram story.

Lookin' sharp: The actress's blonde locks stood out brilliantly against an all-black ensemble, which included a single-breasted black peacoat with gold buttons and black skinny jeans

Back to her roots: Though her character in The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel is brunette, the actress went back to blonde earlier this year

During the Q&A portion, the Emmy winner got candid about catapulting to stardom.

'I've gone out in the world now and I'm a constant disappointment,' she confessed to the crowd, according to SheKnows.

'I have blonde hair — I'm a natural blonde — I don't look like Midge really, and I'm not quite as…quick on my feet.'

Fun with friends: On Tuesday night, the leading actress kept the Maisel hype going during a panel at Manhattan's 92nd Street Y community center, which she documented on her Instagram

Blondes have more fun: 'I have blonde hair — I'm a natural blonde — I don't look like Midge really, and I'm not quite as…quick on my feet'

Still, she takes it in stride and has learned to be confident in herself.

'I was told for so many years that I wasn't funny,' the Milwaukee native continued.

'I would spend money I did not have fixing my hair and makeup because I thought it would help me out…it's not that serious. If the role is meant to be yours, it will be yours.'

The third season of the Amazon Prime output premiered on December 6. The fourth season will likely premiere in late 2020.