Former Gogglebox star Yvie Jones has shared a powerful body confidence message with fans during a live radio discussion.

On Thursday, the 47-year-old revealed she 'still struggles every day' with an eating disorder on Hit Network's Summer Breakfast, during an emotional chat with co-host Grant Denyer.

In a bid to inspire others, Yvie began: 'I see myself as someone who still struggles every single day with an eating disorder, what I see in the mirror, on TV, and read on the internet from well-meaning none-professionals and professionals.'

Inspiring: Former Gogglebox star Yvie Jones (pictured) has revealed she's still battling eating disorder in a powerful body confidence discussion with radio co-host, Grant Denyer

Angie Kent's best friend went on to say that she's now decided to 'love herself anyway', revealing that she talks to herself in the same way she would a vulnerable friend or child.

'When you think something awful and judgmental about someone - including yourself - always remember that the first thing your mind thinks is how society has taught us to be. The second thing is how you really actually feel,' she said.

'Re-program your mind, embrace yourself. We are so much more than what we see in the mirror.'

Being honest: Her powerful message comes less than a year after Yvie refused to be weighed on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here! using the platform to speak about her eating disorder for the first time

She finished her message by urging fans to 'stuff diet culture', and to instead listen to what their body wants as it will 'never let you down'.

Her powerful message comes less than a year after Yvie refused to be weighed on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out Of Here!, instead using the platform to speak about her eating disorder for the first time.

Yvie broke down as she talked about body image and how she 'wished we lived in a different world where what we looked like doesn't matter'.

Soared to fame: Yvie shot to fame after appearing on Gogglebox, alongside her best friend and The Bachelorette, Angie Kent

During the weigh-in, Yvie revealed that she wouldn't be taking part, telling her camp mates: 'I've had an eating disorder most of my life.

'I was growing up in a house where I was told that one of the worst things to be was overweight. I can't actually tell you the last time I weighed myself.

'I know a lot of people think they understand but unless you've had an overweight problem you don't understand what it's like to go through life being solely judged on the weight you are and the clothes that don't fit you properly.'