They may be worth millions, but even Chris Hemsworth and Elsa Pataky stick to a budget when it comes to Christmas shopping.

Chris, 36, and Elsa, 43, were spotted hitting the shops separately in Byron Bay and nearby Ballina on Wednesday.

Having clearly embraced the coastal town's laid-back lifestyle, both actors stepped out barefoot as they picked up some Christmas presents.

'Tis the season: They may be worth millions, but even Chris Hemsworth and Elsa Pataky stick to a budget when it comes to Christmas shopping

Elsa was spotted pushing a loaded up trolley after a successful shopping outing with the couple's twin sons, Tristan and Sasha, both five, at the local Kmart in Ballina.

Meanwhile, Chris visited a Quiksilver shop in Byron Bay, later emerging with two bags full of goods from the surfwear store.

Wearing a long floral blue jumpsuit, Elsa looked every inch the boho babe as she hit the shops.

The simple life: Having clearly embraced the coastal town's laid-back lifestyle, both actors stepped out barefoot as they picked up some Christmas presents

Flower power: Wearing a long floral blue jumpsuit, Elsa looked every inch the boho babe as she hit the shops

Father Chris-tmas: Chris visited a Quiksilver shop in Byron Bay, later emerging with two bags full of goods from the surfwear store

An Aztec-style tan and grey leather and suede handbag sat across her body, adorned with tassels.

She accessorised with a series of rings and layered silver necklaces and bangles, and her long blonde hair was tied back in a low, messy ponytail.

Like their parents, both Tristan and Sasha also hit the shops barefoot, with one of the twins enjoying a ride on the front of the trolley.

Sleigh, what? Elsa was spotted pushing a loaded up trolley after a successful shopping outing with the couple's twin sons, Tristan and Sasha, both five, at the local Kmart in Ballina

Stressed out: Elsa appeared somewhat frazzled after tackling the shops at Christmas time with two young children in tow

Bagging a bargain: An Aztec-style tan and grey leather and suede handbag sat across her body, adorned with tassels

Silver linings: She accessorised with a series of rings, and layered silver necklaces and bangles, and her long blonde hair was tied back in a low, messy ponytail

After pushing the full trolley across the store's carpark, Elsa then began loading her purchases into the boot of the family's four-wheel drive with the help of a female friend.

Among her many purchases were Christmas decorations, including reindeer ornaments and plush toys.

She also bought Christmas stockings for the couple's three children, including daughter India, seven, along with several toys.

Time to unload: After pushing the trolley across the store's carpark, Elsa then began loading her purchases into the boot of the family's four-wheel drive with the help of a female friend

Holding on for deer life: Elsa had her hands full as she unloaded her Kmart purchases from her trolley into the boot of her car

Keeping them busy: Also in her trolley was a series of 'build your own gingerbread unicorn house' kits, along with other craft materials for the kids to play with during their holidays

Also in her trolley was a series of 'build your own gingerbread unicorn house' kits, along with other craft materials for the kids to play with during their holidays.

Elsa appeared somewhat frazzled after tackling the shops at Christmas time with two young children in tow.

Meanwhile, Chris seemed much more relaxed in comparison, casually slipping on his sunglasses as he exited the surf shop.

Feeling pine: Chris seemed much more relaxed in comparison, casually slipping on his sunglasses as he exited the surf shop

No Santa hat here: The Thor hunk stepped out in a pair of navy blue shorts, which he paired with a sand-coloured T-shirt and matching trucker cap

The Thor hunk stepped out in a pair of navy blue shorts, which he paired with a sand-coloured T-shirt and matching trucker cap.

Like his wife, he wore a series of silver rings, and stacked a variety of brown leather and beaded bracelets around his right wrist.

The family has well and truly embraced the Christmas spirit, with Elsa sharing a photo of herself wearing a Santa hat and carrying a hessian sack over one shoulder on Instagram earlier this month.

His sack? Chris emerged from the store with what appeared to be a small black cosmetics bag tucked under his arm

Undercover: The Hollywood star appeared to have gone largely incognito during his recent shopping expedition

Rebel without a Claus: The family has well and truly embraced the Christmas spirit, with Elsa sharing a photo of herself wearing a Santa hat and carrying a hessian sack over one shoulder

'Giving him a hand,' she captioned the photo, adding a Santa emoji.

Last week, she shared a photo of herself and the couple's three children decorating the Christmas tree in matching plaid pyjamas.

'Some like it plaid!' she captioned the sweet family photo.