Neighbours is a beloved Australian soap, celebrating 35 years on television.

And to mark the milestone, the show has released a special edition clothing range for die-hard fans.

But the range doesn't come cheap, with garments costing a whopping $220 each.

How much?! Neighbours has released a special edition clothing range for die-hard fans to celebrate its 35th anniversary... but garments cost a whopping $220 each (Pictured: L-R: Stars April Rose Pengilly, Olivia Junkeer, Zima Anderson, Ryan Moloney, Bonnie Anderson, Georgie Stone wearing the new range)

The range is a collaboration with Frida Las Vegas and features a series of 'glamour sacks' - or oversized T-shirts which are made-to-order.

One sack features the iconic Ramsay St sign, while another has an old picture of character Toadfish Rebecchi with a mullet, played by Ryan Moloney.

According to the website, the collaboration aims to 'bring Ramsay Street chic out of the telly and into the wardrobes of suburban glamazons worldwide.'

Quirky! The range is a collaboration with Frida Las Vegas and features a series of 'glamour sacks' - or oversized T-shirts which are made-to-order

Interesting! According to the website, the collaboration aims to 'bring Ramsay Street chic out of the telly and into the wardrobes of suburban glamazons worldwide'

The fashion label is known for its bright colours and pop art themes.

The brand has been worn by the likes of singers Katy Perry and Kate Miller-Heidke, as well as Ru Paul's Drag Race stars, Aquaria and Detox.

It comes after Neighbours star Ryan Moloney, 40, spoke about working on the show for 24 years playing Toadfish.

Familiar face: It comes after Neighbours star Ryan Moloney, 40, spoke about working on the show for 24 years playing Toadfish

Remember this? Ryan joined the show in 1995, sporting a long curly haired ponytail, which was his character's iconic look for many years

Speaking to Digital Spy in March, Ryan said being an actor on the soap is 'one of the best jobs in the world.'

However, he said he doesn't know how long he will be on the show.

'I always only take it contract by contract. At the end of the day, they could just decide: "You know what? It's time for you to go as well!''

'And If they did come to an end, I'd say: 'Well, thank you very much for having me." It's one of the best jobs in the world.'