Kylie Jenner's turning her home into a real winter wonderland.

The 22-year-old showed off her enormous Christmas tree to her 153m Instagram followers on Wednesday, in what appears to be the atrium of her residence.

The reality star and makeup mega-mogul also shared a positively adorable image of daughter Stormi partially covered in pink balls, as the tot smiles with glee while lying in the ball pit.

Peek a boo: Kylie Jenner shared a positively adorable image of daughter Stormi partially covered in pink balls, as the tot smiles with glee while lying in a ball pit

In Jenner's Instagram Stories, she shared several snippets showing the giant evergreen, which stood at least two stories high and towered in front of the interior balcony lining the second floor.

The tree was covered in fake snow, along with simple and tasteful round white Christmas ornaments.

In the audio, Kylie can be hear talking about the 'process' of trimming the tree, which is 'making magic.'

She also pans her camera phone to the left and reveals some equally enormous round white ornaments lying near boxes on the floor, but she then says 'I think I like just the small.'

Towering tree: Jenner showed off her enormous Christmas tree to her 153m Instagram followers as well on Wednesday, in what appears to be the atrium of her residence

Mom and daughter in winter mode: Kylie has been getting into the Christmas spirit on her social media

In the picture of her daughter Stormi, which Kylie shared to both her IG feed as well as her story, the almost two-year-old tot is seen in a Fendi zip-up jacket with bright yellow detailing, and leopard-print pants.

Kylie's daughter with ex Travis Scott looks to be totally in her element, covered in pale pink balls.

Jenner captioned the image aptly with the phrase, 'peek a boo'.

Enormous evergreen: In Jenner's Instagram Stories, she shared several snippets showing her giant tree, which stood at least two stories high and towered in front of the interior balcony

As for the family's plans for Christmas, Stormi will have both her parents together, but it doesn't mean they have reconciled.

According to TMZ, Kylie and the rapper, 27, will put their differences aside to ring in the festive day in Los Angeles with their little girl, and they are said to be determined to make the day special for Stormi when she opens her presents and be 'together as a unit.'

However, Kylie's older half-sister Kim Kardashian dispelled rumors of a Kylie-Travis reconciliation during a Tuesday appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.

'I honestly don’t know, but I think that they are just really close friends and co-parenting amazingly,' Kim said. 'I don’t know the status if they’re together or not. I don’t think they are.'

Lovely: The tree was covered in fake snow, along with simple and tasteful round white Christmas ornaments

Big: Jenner also pans her camera phone to the left and reveals some equally enormous round white ornaments lying near boxes on the floor, but she then says 'I think I like just the small'