She married the 'love of her life' in a stunning ceremony at York Minister in August, earlier this year.

And stepping out on the arm of her husband Caspar Jopling, Ellie Goulding turned heads in a sultry, velvet dress as she attended Princess Beatrice's engagement party at Chiltern Firehouse in London on Wednesday night.

The Love Me Like You Do hit-maker, 32, looked sensational in her vintage-inspired number, while husband Caspar proved to be ever the gentleman and shielded wife Ellie from the rain on their arrival to the star-studded bash.

Stepping out: Ellie Goulding turned heads in a sultry, velvet dress as she attended Princess Beatrice's engagement party at Chiltern Firehouse in London on Wednesday night with her husband Caspar Jopling

Ellie's glamorous frock made sure to frame her incredibly toned physique and boasted an array of statement buttons down the middle.

She paired her dress with a pair of sheer tights and boot heels and wrapped up in a tailored, long-line, blazer jacket in a bid to keep the winter chill at bay.

The blonde beauty completed her glamorous look by wearing her long locks down in a tousled style and favoured a pair of huge diamond drop earrings.

Stunning: The Love Me Like You Do hit-maker, 32, looked sensational in her vintage-inspired number, while her chivalrous husband Caspar shielded her from the rain on their arrival

Gorgeous: Ellie's glamorous frock made sure to frame her incredibly toned physique and boasted an array of statement buttons down the middle

In sync: Ellie was seen arriving alongside her husband of four-months Caspar, who looked effortlessly cool in a navy two-piece suit, white shirt and navy sneakers

Accentuating her already flawless complexion, Ellie favoured a simple yet stunning make-up look that included slightly blushed cheeks, a nude pink lip and a slick of liquid eye-liner to frame her eyes.

She was seen arriving alongside her husband of four-months Caspar, who looked effortlessly cool in a navy two-piece suit, white shirt and navy sneakers.

He wrapped a black scarf around his neck and proved to be nothing but chivalrous, as he shielded his wife from the rain with a large umbrella, as they made their way into Chiltern Firehouse for the bash.

Stunning: The singer looked effortlessly chic as she used the pavement as her catwalk to attend the star-studded event

Ever the gentleman: Ellie's husband Caspar was ever the gentleman as he escorted her to the event and sheltered her from the rain under an umbrella

Home time: Ellie appeared in good spirits as she got a taxi home after the star-studded celebration on Wednesday night

Ellie and Caspar tied the knot in York at the end of August in a lavish ceremony that was attended by the likes of Katy Perry and Orlando Bloom, Sienna Miller, James Blunt and the singer's close pal Princess Beatrice and her sister Eugenie.

Ellie has been good friends with Princess Beatrice and her sister Eugenie for years, with the star even holidaying with Beatrice in Jordan in 2017.

It's said Ellie and Caspar have enjoyed double dates with Eugenie and her husband Jack Brooksbank and the couple attended Eugenie's wedding in October last year.

Stepping out for Beatrice's big night, Ellie joined a whole host of stars at the party celebrating the royal's engagement to fiancé Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi.

Steady! Ayda Field commanded attention in a pink flared jumpsuit although she nearly took an unfortunate tumble as she tripped in her silver platform heels

Connections: The former X Factor judge made the guest list for Princess Beatrice's bash and made a chic solo appearance, as her husband Robbie Williams did not attend

Dressed to impress: Exuding glamour for the night out, Ayda dazzled in a high-necked pink jumpsuit that showcased her phenomenal figure

Pals: Another guest on the star-studded list was James Blunt who looked dapper in a grey patterned suit jacket and skinny black jeans

Stylish: The singer's wife Sofia Wellesley looked stylish in a leopard print faux-fur coat and a black Chanel quilted handbag

Mother-of-the-bride! Duchess of York, Sarah Ferguson, looked stylish for the night celebrating her daughter's engagement as she wore a black dress with a Chanel handbag, lace-up boots and semi-sheer tights

Among the guests was former X Factor judge Ayda Field, who attended the bash without her husband Robbie Williams.

Ayda stunned in a high-necked pink jumpsuit that showcased her phenomenal figure and silver platform heels.

Beatrice is expected to tie the knot with Italian property entrepreneur Edoardo, 34, in the new year.

Sparkly: Pippa Middleton looked typically festive as she wore a chic silver sparkly dress with a black trenchcoat over the top

Details: The socialite and sister of the Duchess of Cambridge, Kate Middleton, styled her brunette locks into a sleek blow-dried hairdo, she added a slick of glamorous make-up

Dapper: Pippa's husband James Matthews, left, looked dapper in a pair of chinos, navy blue jumper and a tailored jacket while Guy Pelly, right, was also pictured arriving to the event

Loved-up: James Middleton and his fiancé, Alizee Thevenet, looked loved-up as they walked to the event hand-in-hand

Buckingham Palace has said it will announce further details of the wedding over the coming weeks but it is likely to be much smaller than a typical wedding, including her sister Eugenie's.

This is said to be partly because of the controversy surrounding her father Prince Andrew.

He was ordered to step down from royal duties after he failed to apologise for his friendship with convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein - and the fact that Edo has a young son with his former fiancée.

Surprise arrival: Robert De Niro was seen at the Chiltern Firehouse, it is not known if he was attending the engagement party