Donald Trump became the third president in American history to be impeached on Wednesday on a largely party line vote, setting up a formal trial next year in the Senate.

The impeachment vote capped off a three month investigation into the president's actions in regard to the Ukraine. The vote came at the end of a day-long partisan debate on the House floor with Republicans charging Democrats with wanting to over turn the last presidential election and Democrats arguing the president tried to use a foreign power to help him win re-election.

Republicans voted as a bloc against both articles of impeachment - the first on abuse of power, the second on obstruction of Congress - but three Democrats broke ranks to vote against.

Jeff Van Drew and Collin Peterson, who hold seats in states that Trump won in 2016, both voted 'no' on the first count. They were joined on the second count by Jared Golden, whose district is also deep in Trump country.

Donald Trump, who was holding a rally in Michigan at the time the ballots were cast, hailed the defections - calling it 'unheard of'.

Fellow Democrat Tulsi Gabbard, who is running for president, was the only member of her party to vote 'present' on both - refusing to come down for or against.

'A great day for the constitution of the United States,' Speaker Nancy Pelosi said after the votes concluded.

Speaker Nancy Pelosi presided over the impeachment vote

Republicans rushed to the speaker's dais to cast paper ballots

Collin Peterson (left) and Jeff Van Drew, both Democrats with seats in states that Trump won in 2016, voted 'no' on both articles of impeachment

Jared Golden, another Democrat holding a seat in Trump-country, joined Van Drew and Peterson to vote against the second count

The voting board in the House during the impeachment vote

Donald Trump became the third American president impeached

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi kept her Democrats in line during the impeachment process

'I could not be prouder or more inspired by the moral courage of House Democrats. We never asked one of them how they are going to vote. We never whipped this vote. We saw the vote -- well, you saw the public statements that some of them made, we saw the result when everyone else did,' she said.

'The statements on the floor about patriotism and about being very true to the vision of our founders. And so I view this day, this vote as something that we did to honor the vision of our founders, to establish a republic, the sacrifice of our men and women in uniform to defend our democracy and that republic and the aspirations of our children, that they will always live in a democracy,' she added.

The House held two separate votes - one on each article of impeachment. Pelosi presided over the votes and largely kept her party in line. And she silenced a few Democratic lawmakers who cheered the outcome with a flick of her wrist. The speaker made it clear before the vote she did not want Democrats to be celebrating what she considered a grave constitutional matter.

The vote on the first article of impeachment - abuse of power - was 230 to 197. The vote on the second article - obstruction of Congress - was 229 to 198.

'On this vote, the yeas are 230. The nays are 197. Present is one. Article one is adopted,' Pelosi announced after she gaveled the vote on the first article to a close.

On this vote, the yeas are 229. The nays are 198. Present is one. Article two is adopted,' she said at the end of the second vote.

Republicans lawmakers rushed to the speaker's dais to cast their votes by paper ballot, which means the votes had to be tallied by hand by the Clerk of the House. The usual procedure is for lawmakers to vote via an electronic system.

Some lawmakers were spotted taking selfies with their ballots before they officially cast them.

Pelosi voted yes on both articles, casting a rare vote. The speaker of the House typically does not vote on any legislative matter.

Trump was in Michigan for a campaign rally as the House of Representatives held its impeachment vote. He was speaking in Amash's district.

'By the way by the way it doesn't really feel like we're being impeached,' he told the crowd.

He went after the Democrats' with his favorite moniker for them - 'crazy.'

'Through their depraved actions today 'Crazy Nancy' Pelosi's House Democrats have branded themselves with an eternal mark of shame,' he said.

'I'm having a good time, it's crazy,' he remarked later after the vote concluded.

'I'm not worried,' he noted of next year's presidential election. 'In the life of Trump, 10 months is an eternity.'

Trump's approval rating has improved over the course of the impeachment proceedings, a new poll revealed Wednesday.

The president's approval reached 45 per cent in the Gallup poll conducted December 2-15, up from 39 per cent in October – just days after Pelosi announced the launch of the impeachment inquiry.

Trump turned to bragging about his accomplishments, including the Space Force that was just established by congressional vote.

'I'll be able to tell my kids someday and everybody else, see that Space Force, that was my baby,' he said, drawing a loud roar from the crowd.

And he also bragged he got some Democratic votes during the impeachment votes.

'The Democrats always stick together. Think of it: Three Democrats went over to our side,' he said. He added: 'That's unheard of.'

The president was silent as he left the White House on Wednesday to head to his rally but he tweeted furiously throughout the day as Democrats and Republicans debated his fate on the House floor.

'SUCH ATROCIOUS LIES BY THE RADICAL LEFT, DO NOTHING DEMOCRATS. THIS IS AN ASSAULT ON AMERICA, AND AN ASSAULT ON THE REPUBLICAN PARTY!!!!,' he wrote in a furious all-caps assault earlier in the day.

White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham blasted the impeachment vote as 'one of the most shameful political episodes in the history of our Nation.'

'The President is confident the Senate will restore regular order, fairness, and due process, all of which were ignored in the House proceedings. He is prepared for the next steps and confident that he will be fully exonerated,' she said in a statement after the votes were concluded.

Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler said after the vote that President Trump must not be 'allowed to become a dictator.'

'The framers gave us the power of impeachment for exactly this reason and in fulfillment of our oath and obligation to the American people, today we took action to hold president trump accountable for the serious and undisputed risk he poses to our free and fair elections and to the separation of powers that safeguards our liberty. A president must not be allowed to become a dictator,' he said.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi speaks with Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff, Chairwoman of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform Carolyn Maloney, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Rep. Jerrold Nadler, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Eliot Engel, House Ways and Means Chairman Richard Neal and Chairwoman of the House Financial Services Committee Maxine Waters after the House vote

Pelosi huddles with Waters, Maloney, Nadler, Engler, Elliot and Schiff in the Speaker's office

Pelosi holding the speaker's gavel after the vote

The final vote tally on the second article of impeachment

Democratic Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, who is running for president, voted present on each article of impeachment

''I'm having a good time, it's crazy,' President Trump said after the vote

House Intelligence Committee Chair Adam Schiff noted the matter was now in the hands of the Senate and he encouraged Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to allow more witnesses to be called in the trial process.

'The president of the united States should be tried and the question is now whether Senator Mcconnell will allow a fair trial in the Senate, whether the majority leader will allow a trial that involves witnesses and testimony and documents, a trial that should be fair to the president, yes, but should be fair also to the American people. The American people want to hear from people like John Bolton. The American people want to hear from people like Mick Mulvaney. The American people want to see what's in those documents that the president has been hiding at the State Department in the office of management and budget in the white house itself. We have done our duty here in the House,' he said.

And Pelosi threatened to hold on to the articles of impeachment until McConnell outlines what the trial process will be in the Senate.

'So far, we haven't seen anything that looks fair to us,' she said.

'We have legislation approved by the Rules Committee that will enable us to decide how we will send over the articles of impeachment. We cannot name managers until we see what the process is on the Senate side, and I would hope that that will be soon, as we did with their legislation,' she noted.

'We will make our decision as to when we're going to send -- when we see what they're doing on the Senate side,' Pelosi added.

'This is what I don't consider a fair trial, that Leader McConnell has stated that he's not an impartial juror, that he's going to take his cues, in quotes, from the White House, and he is working in total coordination with the White House counsel's office,' Pelosi said.

There were three not-voting congressional seats on Wednesday night: the seats held by Katie Hill, who resigned, and Elijah Cummings, who died, have not been filled. Republican Congressman Duncan Hunter can't vote after being found guilty of a felony.

Additionally, Republican Rep. John Shimkus missed the vote because he was on a pre-planned trip to Africa.

'Long before today's votes were scheduled, my wife Karen and I made arrangements to visit our son Joshua in Tanzania where he's serving in the Peace Corps,' he said in a statement.

President Trump spoke at a campaign rally in Michigan during the House vote

The House chamber during the impeachment vote

House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff made the closing argument for Democrats

Rep. John Lewis warned lawmakers their children were watching their actions

Rep. Matt Gaetz accused Democrats of wanting to overturn the 2016 election

The day-long debate on the House floor was a ping pong back-and-forth of one minute speeches were Democrats accused the president of using a foreign power to help him win the 2020 election and Republicans claimed Democrats were trying to over turn the 2016 contest.

'This is not about Ukraine. This is about power. Donald Trump has it and Democrats want it,' said Republican Rep. Matt Gaetz, one of Trump's biggest allies on Capitol Hill. 'Democrats may have won the house in 2018. But they haven't forgiven Donald Trumper for having the audacity to win the presidency. And they haven't forgiven you, the American people, for voting for him.'

Democratic Rep. John Lewis, a legend of the civil rights movement, urged lawmakers to do the right thing and vote to impeachment.

'When you see something that is not right, not just, not fair—you have a moral obligation to say something, to do something. Our children and their children will ask us: 'What did you do?'' he said.

Pelosi began the formal debate on the articles of impeachment by saying the president gave them no choice but to impeach him. She received a standing ovation from her Democratic lawmakers when she was done.

'As speaker of the House I solemnly and sadly open the debate on the impeachment of the president of the United States. If we do not act now, we would be derelict in our duty. It is tragic that the president's reckless actions make impeachment necessary. He gave us no choice,' she said in her speech in the well of the House, standing next to a sign with a picture of the American flag and reading 'to the republic for which it stands.'

The speaker was dressed in black for the day. Pinned to her dress was a broach in the shape of the Mace of the House - a symbol of the power of the speaker.

Pelosi, who fought to become speaker after Democrats won control of the House after the 2018 election, has received kudos from her party members on her handling of the impeachment inquiry.

Speaker Nancy Pelosi leaves the House floor after the impeachment vote

Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer watches the House impeachment vote count in his Capitol Hill office; the Senate will hold Trump's trial in January

Speaker Pelosi, in route to the House chamber, received kudos from her party for her handling of the impeachment process

House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff accused Trump of trying to cheat in the 2020 election and getting caught

Leading the floor debate for the Democrats were the two men who led the impeachment inquiry: House Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler and House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff.

'He tried to cheat and he got caught,' Schiff said in his remarks on the House floor.

The debate grew more impassioned as the time for the final vote got closer.

One of the last lawmakers to speak, House Republican Whip Steve Scalise delivered a fiery defense of President Trump, throwing papers on the desk and waving his arms to the cheers of his fellow GOP lawmakers.

'This has been about a political vendetta,' Scalise said.

And he echoed Republican charges Democrats were trying to over turn the 2016 election.

'This isn't just about Donald Trump. They don't just hate Donald Trump,' he said of Democrats. 'They hate the 63 million Americans who voted for this president. The forgotten men and women of this country who have been left behind.'

'No, no,' the Democratic lawmakers yelled from across the chamber. Republicans started cheering Scalise on to drown them out.

Rep. Diana DeGette, was presiding over the chamber, gaveled for a return to order.

'Impeachment will not just be a stain on this Democratic majority. Impeachment will be their legacy,' Scalise finished.

Schiff made the closing argument for Democrats and he appealed to lawmakers to think of the future, when they could be the majority in the House.

'You may be one day -- although you may not act like it, you may one day be in the majority. You will want to hold a president accountable. What will you say when that president says, you were a paper tiger, you have no oversight, I can ignore your subpoenas, what will you say? What will you argue? No, no, that was different. Then we were in the minority. Then it was a Republican president. Will that be your argument?,' Schiff said.

He also pointed out that Republicans, under Ronald Reagan, cared about standing up to Russia and President Vladimir Putin.

'We should care about Ukraine. We should care about a country struggling to be free and a democracy. We used to care about democracy. We used to care about our allies. We used to stand up to Putin and Russia. We used to. I know the party of Ronald Reagan used to,' he said as Democrats applauded.

Republican Rep. Doug Collins of Georgia rallied his party with his final remarks

Democratic lawmakers, like House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, kept their remarks focused on the vote ahead of them

The final line up of GOP speakers rallied the party against the 'sham impeachment' as they called it, while the Democratic speakers focused on the vote ahead.

'I see a president who will put his head down in spite of the sham impeachment and he will do his job and he will tell the American people that I care about you and he will still put the economy first and he will make sure this country stands strong,' said Republican Rep. Doug Collins of Georgia, earning a standing ovation from his party.

'Democrats did not choose this impeachment. We did not wish for it,' House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer said as a few Republican lawmakers yelled 'Come on' in response.

The impeachment vote was a foregone conclusion given Democratic control of the House.

The old arguments were rehashed by both sides of the political aisle and few lawmakers made impressions.

But one who did was Republican Rep. Barry Loudermilk of Georgia, when he compared Trump to Jesus Christ.

'Before you take this historic vote today, one week before Christmas, I want you to keep this in mind. When Jesus was falsely accused of treason, Pontius Pilate gave Jesus the opportunity to face his accusers. During that sham trial, Pontius Pilate afforded more rights to Jesus than Democrats have afforded to this president in this process,' he said.

Republican Rep. Barry Loudermilk of Georgia compared Trump to Jesus Christ

House Judiciary Chairman Jerry Nadler has been full of comebacks after Republicans have spoken on the House floor

Republican Congressman Louie Gohmert reacted with anger when Nadler accused him of saying Russian propaganda on the House floor

But Nadler countered that the president had the opportunity 'to come and testify...to send his counsel, to question witnesses.'

'He declined to do so,' Nadler added.

The Democrat from New York has been full of come backs after Republicans finished their remarks.

Republican Congressman Chris Stewart charged Democrats with trying to overturn 2016 election - a common argument from the GOP.

'They think Hillary Clinton should be the president and they want to fix that,' Stewart said.

Nadler shot back: 'I remind the gentleman if President Trump is impeached and removed, the new president will be Mike Pence and not Hillary Clinton.'

That brought Nadler cheers from the Republicans, who applauded his words.

'Hurrah,' one Republican lawmaker seated on the House floor. 'Thank god,' said another.

Nadler also blasted GOP Congressman Louie Gohmert who pushed the unproven conspiracy theory that it was the Ukraine - and not Russia - that interfered in the 2016 election.

'I am deeply concerned that any member of the House would sprout Russian propaganda on the floor of the House,' Nadler said in response.

Gohmert, who had started to leave, walked back to the microphone and proceeded to yell at Nadler: 'Will the gentleman yield? Will the gentleman yield?,' he yelled as the presiding officer of the House gaveled him to order.

'He accused me of Russian propaganda,' Gohmert said. 'Have his words taken down.'

Speaker Nancy Pelosi arrives in the Capitol Wednesday morning

President Trump is expected to become the third president in U.S. history to be impeached

Rep. Diane DeGette gaveled the House into session Wednesday morning

Republicans launched a series of procedural votes, all of which are expected to fail

While Trump watched the proceedings at the White House before leaving for his rally, Pelosi sat quietly in the back of the House chamber throughout most of the day, listening to the speeches.

House Chaplain Patrick Conroy began the morning with a prayer that acknowledged the task before the lawmakers.

'We ask guidance for members of the people's house,' he said, asking God to 'give them wisdom and discernment' in their task ahead.

Wednesday's vote comes less than five months after Trump got on the phone with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and pushed him to announce an investigation into former Vice President Joe Biden - a top contender for the 2020 Democratic nomination.

Democrats allege Trump with held $400 million in military aid to Ukraine in order to put pressure on Zelensky. Trump has denied any wrong doing.

The vote was scheduled one day shy of the 21st anniversary of the last time the House took such a step - impeaching Democratic President Bill Clinton for lying under oath on December 19, 1998 after he failed to come clean about an affair he was having with a former White House intern, Monica Lewinsky.

Bill Clinton, pictured with then-White House intern Monica Lewinsky - was the last president to be impeached

President Andrew Johnson was the first president to be impeached

The impeachment inquiry now moves to the Senate, where Trump will go on trial.

It will be presided over by Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said it will begin in January after senators return from their holiday break.

He and Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer are set to meet this week to determine the process the Senate trial, including its precise start date, how long it will last and whether additional witnesses will be called.

READ THE ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT AGAINST DONALD TRUMP In 1,414 words, the articles of impeachment passed by the House of Representatives Wednesday lay out two charges against President Donald Trump. Article I: Abuse of Power Using the powers of his high office, President Trump solicited the interference of a foreign government, Ukraine, in the 2020 United States Presidential election. Accused: Donald Trump has two articles of impeachment against him He did so through a scheme or course of conduct that included soliciting the Government of Ukraine to publicly announce investigations that would benefit his reelection, harm the election prospects of a political opponent, and influence the 2020 United States Presidential election to his advantage. President Trump also sought to pressure the Government of Ukraine to take these steps by conditioning official United States Government acts of significant value to Ukraine on its public announcement of the investigations. President Trump engaged in this scheme or course of conduct for corrupt purposes in pursuit of personal political benefit. In so doing, President Trump used the powers of the Presidency in a manner that compromised the national security of the United States and undermined the integrity of the United States democratic process.' Article II: Obstruction of Congress As part of this impeachment inquiry, the Committees undertaking the investigation served subpoenas seeking documents and testimony deemed vital to the inquiry from various Executive Branch agencies and offices, and current and former officials. In response, without lawful cause or excuse, President Trump directed Executive Branch agencies, offices, and officials not to comply with those subpoenas. President Trump thus interposed the powers of the Presidency against the lawful subpoenas of the House of Representatives, and assumed to himself functions and judgments necessary to the exercise of the 'sole Power of Impeachment' vested by the Constitution in the House of Representatives. In the history of the Republic, no President has ever ordered the complete defiance of an impeachment inquiry or sought to obstruct and impede so comprehensively the ability of the House of Representatives to investigate 'high Crimes and Misdemeanors.'' This abuse of office served to cover up the President's own repeated misconduct and to seize and control the power of impeachment -- and thus to nullify a vital constitutional safeguard vested solely in the House of Representatives.