Rebecca Maddern has revealed how excited she is to be hosting Weekend Today with 'legend' Richard Wilkins, 65, next year.

The 42-year-old journalist, known for hosting The Footy Show and Ninja Warrior Australia, took to Instagram on Wednesday to talk about her new role.

Rebecca and Richard will be hosting the show next year, with Rebecca writing in part of her post: 'What a great year 2020 will be!'

'What a great year 2020 will be!' Rebecca Maddern revealed on Wednesday how excited she is to be hosting Weekend Today with 'legend' Richard Wilkins next year (pictured together)

'Thrilled and very excited to be joining Weekend Today next year hosting alongside legend @richardwilkins,' Rebecca wrote on Instagram. 'What a great year 2020 will be!'

Revealing she wasn't straying away from her other roles, she added: 'And yes I'll still be hosting Australian Open tennis and @ninjawarriorau! Busy start to the year, can't wait xx.'

Presenting news on Weekend Today will be Jayne Azzopardi, while former Kids' WB presenter Lauren Phillips will be doing the weather.

Lara Vella will also present news and cover for Jayne while she's on maternity leave.

She's not going anywhere! Rebecca is currently the host of Ninja Warrior Australia and has confirmed she'll still be hosting the show alongside her new gig

Sweet: Away from her career, Rebecca is a doting mother to daughter Ruby-Mae, one (pictured)

Rebecca hosted The Footy Show from March 2016 until August 2018, before going on to front Ninja Warrior Australia alongside Ben Fordham.

Away from her career, Rebecca is a doting mother to daughter Ruby-Mae, one, who she welcomed with her husband Trent Miller last year.

The presenter was overjoyed when she fell pregnant in 2017, after trying unsuccessfully to fall pregnant naturally for two years and undergoing multiple failed attempts of IVF.

The announcement of her new career move comes after Nine confirmed the full line-up for the Today show, after weeks of speculation.

Hosts Karl Stefanovic and Allison Langdon will be joined by Perth newsreader Tracy Vo, weatherman Tim Davies and former Sunday Night reporter Alex Cullen, who will present sport on the breakfast program.