Advertisement

As Australia scorches through unbearably blistering temperatures, thousands of tradies and workers are enduring the day from hell.

With the heat rising to an insufferable 45 degrees and a state of emergency declared across New South Wales, tradies battled with a blanket of choking smoke in Sydney.

Hot and smoky conditions posed a serious threat to health as the workers bravely fought on, with officials warning the toxic combination of smoke and heat could be fatal.

An exhausted tradie (pictured) looks to the sky as the city's workers fight on in insufferable temperatures as Sydney reaches a scorching 45C

Hot and sweaty tradies (pictured) battle on through extreme temperatures in Sydney on Thursday, as they control the traffic along William Street

A commuter on Thursday (pictured) wore an industrial grade specialist gas mask to protect herself from the toxic smoke engulfing Sydney

The bright white sails of the Sydney Opera House are barely visible (pictured) under a thick blanket of smoke blown in the from the bushfires

It is due to reach 41C in the CBD, with temperatures of 45C coming in Penrith, 43C in Liverpool and 44C in Richmond.

Even at Bondi Beach, usually protected by its ocean breeze, beachgoers will be blanketed in thick smoke and 33C heat.

And the worst is yet to come for most of Australia, with Sydney city reaching 37C on Saturday. On Sunday, Brisbane will swelter in 35C.

Melbourne's hottest day will be Friday, when temperatures will soar to 41C. Adelaide will see highs of 44C.

The Construction, Forestry, Maritime, Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU) says tradies are within their rights to stop working when the temperature reaches 35C and urged its 100,000-plus members to do so when the heatwave takes hold.

The state is now on high alert amid fears a 415,000 hectare mega blaze could join a nearby bushfire on Thursday to form a monster inferno surrounding Sydney.

Uncontrollable by exhausted firefighters, the blazes are blanketing the city in smoke, with pollution levels among the worst ever seen.

While tradies toiled away in the CBD, thousands of people flocked to Bondi Beach (pictured) to escape the smoke and heat

Beachgoers were spotted splashing about in the water at Bondi Beach as the mercury rose to 33C on Thursday (pictured)

Alarming levels of PM2.5, the most dangerous particles which can reach a person's lungs, were seen on Thursday -reaching 'hazardous' levels across Sydney.

In Bargo, there were levels of 624 PM2.5 - twice as high as Delhi.

Medical officials issued a grave warning, saying the deadly combination of bushfire smoke and extreme temperatures could kill.

Clad in full work wear, tradies take a moment of shade (pictured) to refresh themselves as they battle on in gruelling heat in Sydney's Elizabeth Street on Thursday

The skyscrapers of Sydney's CBD (pictured) are all but impossible to see through the dangerously polluted smoke clouding the city on Thursday

The exhausted worker (pictured) managed to stay in the Christmas spirit on Thursday as she sported an elf-inspired headband during a day of blistering heat

NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian declared a state of emergency on Thursday morning for the next seven days, and warned the extreme measure was only taken when it was 'absolutely necessary'.

The NSW Health Department warned vulnerable people to stay indoors, and said even the healthiest citizens should avoid outdoor activities.

Medical Advisor in Environmental Health, Dr Adi Vyas, said as temperatures are expected to climb into the mid-40s and with persistent poor air quality from bushfire smoke, people are urged to take extra precautions.

'We know that combined effects of bushfire smoke and extreme temperatures have potential to cause severe illness, hospital admissions and even death,' Dr Vyas said.

Tradies look hot and bothered (pictured) as temperatures soar to 45C in Sydney on Thursday, as the city was choked by a dangerous blanket of bushfire smoke

By 9.30 on Thursday morning, a thick blanket of smoke was already cloaking the city (pictured) after the bushfire smoke blew in from the mountains

'Being indoors during the heat of the day is the best way to keep cool. Minimising physical activity, staying well hydrated are also important ways of reducing the risk of heat-related illness. Staying indoors and reducing activity are also the best ways to reduce exposure to smoky air.

'Heat puts lot of strain on the body and can cause dehydration, heat stress and heat stroke. It can also make underlying conditions worse. People over the age of 75, people with chronic conditions and those who live alone are most vulnerable.'

He said residents should keep on alert for signs of heat-related illness, including dizziness, tiredness, irritability, thirst, fainting, muscle pains or cramps, rapid pulse, shallow breathing, vomiting and confusion.

The Gospers Mountain fire, which is ravaging the Wollemi National Park, could meet the Green Wattle Creek blaze as New South Wales battles temperatures scaling above 45C on Thursday

Sydney is forecast to hit a hot and smoky 40C on Thursday, while Adelaide could scale as high as 44C as a hot air plume blankets the country

At midday on Thursday, north-westerly 40kmh winds are expected to sweep the Gospers Mountain blaze in the path of the Green Wattle Creek fire.

By 2pm - when the sweltering heat is predicted to be at its worst - both fires will be pushed towards Sydney by westerly winds.

If the blazes join, already fatigued firefighters will face their toughest test yet in what has been a devastating bushfire season so far.

Last week the two fires were about 25km apart, a gap which had closed to 14km by Wednesday night.

On Wednesday, construction workers across Australia were told they could put down their tools and walk off the job as soon as the temperature hits 35C or higher.

Sydney, Adelaide and Canberra are all-but-guaranteed to exceed this temperature, with Melbourne expected to scorch through a 43C day on Friday.

The Sydney Opera House is seen in front of a hazy orange sun on Thursday as commuters (pictured) travel from Manly into the scorching city

The out-of-control Green Wattle Creek bushfire (pictured) at Braddocks Road, Werombi, is pictured on December 5. The dangerous blaze is still raging

Darren Greenfield, Secretary of the CFMEU's NSW branch, said thousands of workers could be potentially entitled to leave their work site.

'No one should be forced to work through extreme heat like that is forecast for Sydney on Thursday,' he told Daily Mail Australia.

'Workers who are not covered by Enterprise Bargaining Agreements (EBAs) with heat clauses and who are forced to stay on the job when the temperature tops 35C are at significant risk during these extreme heat events.

'It is worth remembering that more people die in Australia during heatwaves than all other natural hazards such as bushfires, floods, and cyclones combined.'

The warning comes after Australia sweated through its hottest day on record on Tuesday - and it's expected to get even worse.

The average national temperature climbed to 40.9C eclipsing the record of 40.3C set in January 2013.

This record could be broken again with intense heat expected across most of Australia for Thursday and Friday.

South Australia will cop the brunt of Thursday's heat, with the capital forecast to top out at 45C, and the western areas to be worse.

The southern-central town of Wudinna is forecast to hit 49C on Thursday, along with the Western Australian town of Forrest, in the state's south-east.

HOW TO COPE AT WORK IN THE EXTREME HEAT Matters for workers to consider include:  Radiant heat from particular surfaces like bondeck, roofing etc  Sun glare  The type of work being performed Employers must provide:  Sun screen  Cool clear drinking water  Air-conditioned site sheds  Hard hat brims  Sunglasses where required SOURCE: CFMEU Healthy Work Tips for Hot Weather:  Drink 100-200ml of water at regular intervals, do not allow yourself to become thirsty  Avoid drinking coffee, tea, alcohol and caffeinated soft drinks  Wear light coloured, loose clothing made of natural fibres wherever possible  Take regular breaks in a cool place Signs and symptoms of heat illness include:  Feeling sick, nauseous, dizzy or weak  Clumsiness, collapse and convulsions can also be the result of heat illness  Employees with these signs or symptoms need to seek immediate medical attention