With thousands of offices across Australia wrapping up for Christmas on Friday, many households will be preparing to fly near and far to see their loved ones over the break.

But it's worth packing your luggage carefully if you're travelling to see family and friends, to avoid specific items being confiscated.

Staff from Virgin Australia have revealed the Christmas items that are banned from checked-in and carry-on bags on their flights - including model toys, crackers and sparklers.

So what do you need to leave at home or pack in a specific suitcase?

Staff from Virgin Australia have revealed the Christmas items that are banned from checked-in and carry-on bags on their flights (stock image)

You need to pack any Christmas crackers you have in your checked-in baggage and you're only allowed a maximum of two retail packets up to 12 crackers in total (stock image)

1. Christmas crackers - pack in checked-in bag

Firstly, the staff told Escape you need to pack any Christmas crackers you have in your checked-in baggage.

'Don't go overboard [either],' they said - as you are only allowed to take a maximum of two retail packets of up to 12 crackers in total.

How many crackers you can bring varies between airlines, but all airlines state that they must be in your checked-in bag.

Staff also said that you cannot bring party poppers on a Virgin Australia flight (stock image)

The same applies to sparklers, which will not get past security screening at the airport (stock image)

2. Party poppers and sparklers - never

Christmas presents banned from carry-on bags * Toys with lithium batteries * Ice skates * Alcohol * Darts * Slingshots * Perfumes or cosmetics over 100mL * Cricket bats or golf clubs

Staff said party poppers are strictly forbidden on a Virgin Australia flight.

The same applies to sparklers, which will not get past security screening at the airport.

Buy them when you get to your destination to avoid any trouble.

3. Model toys - pack in checked-in bag

Among the more surprising items that you should not bring on board in your carry-on are model toys, which are often battery-powered and can cause trouble.

The Virgin Australia staff said if you are transporting a gift for a child, then make sure all the batteries and fuel are removed and then stowed in your checked-in bag safely.

Among the more surprising items that you should not bring on board are model toys, which are often battery-powered and can therefore cause trouble (stock image)

4. Alkaline and lithium batteries - pack in carry-on bag

Gifts prohibited by mail * Card with cash * Jewellery * Toy pistols with paper caps * Gifts valued at $2,000 or more * Hair products * Extra lithium batteries with toy gifts * Fruit and vegetables

In the same way that you need to remove any batteries from model toys, so too do you need to be careful with any batteries you're bringing on board.

'Batteries and spare dry batteries must be sealed, packed up and taken on board in your carry-on baggage only,' the staff said.

5. Camping stoves - pack in either bag

Camping stoves and barbecue equipment are commonplace items to pack in Australia at this time of year.

And while you can pack them in either bag, you do need to bear a few things in mind.

'You're okay to pack them in either your checked-in bags or carry-on as long as all gas cylinders are removed,' staff said.

If you have a camping stove with a gas bottle or fuel tank attached, it should be clean and dry with no smell, before it's kept in your checked-in luggage only.