Prince William and Daniel Craig have both previously made secret cameos in Star Wars films dressed as Stormtroopers.

And Harry Styles may be set to join the elite list of celebrity appearances, after Luke Skywalker actor Mark Hamil dropped a huge hint on his Twitter page.

The actor, 68, teased the Watermelon Sugar hitmaker's cameo in the film by listening the previous stars to have appeared in the Star Wars franchise.

No way! Harry Styles may be set to join the elite list of celebrity appearances, after Luke Skywalker actor Mark Hamil dropped a huge hint on his Twitter page

Mark dropped several clues during his tweet, including that the 'secret Trooper' would be a singer, 'one direction' and most obvious of them all '#Stylestrooper'.

He penned: 'Tonight #TheRiseOfSkywalker Premiere finally brings closure to my dysfunctional family! Wonder who’ll be the #SecretStormtrooper in this one?

'Considering they’ve all been UK Superstars (2 Royals+2 Actors) but still no singer, all the clues point in one direction: #Stylestrooper.'

Mark also included pictures of the previous stars who carried out the role and a snap of Harry mocked up in a Stormtrooper outfit.

#Stylestrooper? The actor, 68, teased the Watermelon Sugar hitmaker's cameo in the film by listening the previous stars to have appeared in the Star Wars franchise

It was previously rumoured earlier this year, that Ed Sheeran would make a surprise cameo in Star Wars: Rise Of Skywalker as a Stormtrooper.

Ed added further fuel to the fire when he appeared dressed in the iconic costume during a new teaser for the third film in the final Star Wars trilogy.

The singer, 28, beamed as he appeared in the clip, which is believed to have been taken from a fan event, wearing the white suit without the Stormtrooper helmet.

Cameo? It was previously rumoured that Ed Sheeran would make a surprise cameo in Star Wars: Rise Of Skywalker as a Stormtrooper

After previously playing a soldier in Game Of Thrones, Ed could be set for one of his biggest acting roles to date as he is said to have landed a cameo in the film.

The Sun previously reported in December last year, that the Thinking Out Loud star will play a stormtrooper in Episode IX which is set for release next month.

Ed's reported cameo in the flick is being kept a secret and as the storm trooper's are suited soldiers, fans won't get to catch a glimpse of the flame-haired singer when the film hits screens.

Surprise! The singer, 28, beamed as he appeared in the clip, which is believed to have been taken from a fan event, wearing the white suit without the stormtrooper helmet