It's every wine connoisseur's dream to have an endless supply of Champagne - and now Australians can enjoy Moët & Chandon at the press of a button.

Liquor retail chain BWS is giving away free Champagne vending machines filled with chilled 200ml bottles of the finest French wine to satisfy those bubbly cravings on the go.

To win one of the machines for your next event, simply purchase any product from the Moët & Chandon range from today until the December 31 at any BWS store or online.

Liquor retail chain BWS is giving away Moët & Chandon vending machines for your next event

The machine is filled with chilled 200ml bottles of the finest French wine to satisfy those bubbly cravings on the go

How to win a vending machine To win one of the Moët & Chandon vending machines, simply purchase any product from the Moët & Chandon range from today until December 31 at any BWS store or online. Note the 19 digit unique code from your receipt and enter on the website for your chance to win.

The Moet and Chandon dispenser is the first champagne vending machine in the world, and has been a hit among the rich and famous, including Kylie Jenner.

In October, the 22-year-old makeup mogul sent the internet into a spin after she gave her fans a grand tour of her office space, which included the Moët & Chandon vending machine.

Her mother Kris Jenner previously revealed her friends Chrissy Teigen and husband John Legend as well as celebrity hairstylist Jen Atkins and her beau Mike Rosenthal had gifted her a champagne vending machine.

The Moet and Chandon dispenser is the first champagne vending machine in the world, and has been a hit among the rich and famous, including Kylie Jenner, who owns on in her office (pictured), along with a personalised Skittles vending machine

'When a forklift shows up at my house with a Champagne vending machine and an unlimited supply of Moet Champagne I am jumping for joy!! And I'm not gonna lie a little drunk,' Kris said in June 2018.

'I LOVE you guys thank you my beautiful friends,' she continued adding the hashtag, 'I love champagne.'