She's been friends with the royals for years.

And Ayda Field made the guest list for Princess Beatrice's lavish engagement party at Chiltern Firehouse bar and restaurant in London on Wednesday although she nearly took an unfortunate tumble in her platform heels.

The American actress, 40, was not joined by her husband Robbie Williams at the soiree, but seemed in high spirits as she headed inside.

Steady! Ayda Field nearly took an unfortunate tumble in her silver platform heels as she made the guest list for Princess Beatrice's lavish engagement party at Chiltern Firehouse bar and restaurant in London on Wednesday

Exuding glamour for the night out, Ayda dazzled in a high-necked pink jumpsuit that showcased her phenomenal figure.

Cinching in at her tiny waist with a thick belt, the garment flared out into billowing trousers, and also sported blouson sleeves.

Boosting her modelesque frame, the mother-of-three finished off the look with a pair of silver platform heels.

Stylish: The American actress, 40, was not joined by her husband Robbie Williams at the soiree, as she made a solo appearance at the star-studded gathering

Dressed to impress: Exuding glamour for the night out, Ayda dazzled in a high-necked pink jumpsuit that showcased her phenomenal figure

Ayda and Robbie know Beatrice and her family well, with the princess' sister Eugenie reportedly viewing Robbie as ‘the brother she never had’.

Beatrice and Eugenie’s mother Sarah Ferguson also knows the A-list couple, having first met back in 2011 on the yacht of the Phones 4 U millionaire John Caudwell.

The group got on well enough for the Williams clan to invite Fergie and her daughters to their house in Los Angeles, and by May of 2011 the family was on close enough terms with the Royals to watch the Eurovision Song Contest at Robbie's house in Wiltshire.

Ayda's daughter Teddy was a flower girl, along with Princess Charlotte and pageboy Prince George, for Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank's wedding at Windsor Castle last year.

Details: Boosting her modelesque frame, the mother-of-three finished off the look with a pair of silver platform heels although she nearly took a tumble in them later on

Glamorous: Ayda styled her brunette locks into a voluminous curly blow-dried hairdo, she added a slick of glamorous make-up

Engaged: Princess Beatrice is engaged to Italian property entrepreneur Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi and the couple will marry in the new year (pictured in March)

It is not known if Teddy will get to take on the role again when Beatrice ties the knot with Italian property entrepreneur Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi in the new year.

Buckingham Palace has said it will announce further details of the wedding over the coming weeks but it is likely to be much smaller than a typical wedding, including her sister Eugenie's.

This is said to be partly because of the controversy surrounding her father Prince Andrew - who was ordered to step down from royal duties after he failed to apologise for his friendship with convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein - and the fact that Edo has a young son with his former fiancée.

Duo: Ayda and her husband Robbie Williams know Beatrice and her family well (pictured at Princess Eugenie and Jack Brooksbank's wedding last year)