New York GOP Rep. Lee Zeldin tore into the impeachment of President Trump as a 'Schiff Show' – in a line that was picked up in closed-captioning with the foul language he was only intimating.

Zeldin, who represents a Long Island district that has swung between the parties, tore into Democratic House Intelligence Chairman Rep. Adam Schiff in his brief impeachment speech.

'It's a total Schiff Show. I urge all of my colleagues to vote no,' he said, in a speech carried on live television amid interest in the impeachment showdown.

Any MSNBC viewers who were viewing with the sound muted or with closed captioning on would have seen his line show up as 'TOTAL S*** SHOW.'

Reporters and commentators caught the the moment in real time.

Schiff, a California Republican, smiled at the remark, but didn't otherwise comment. He may have become used to the attacks, after Republicans repeatedly blasted him at the Intelligence Committee hearings he oversaw, and even the Judiciary Committee impeachment hearings where Republicans tried and failed to call him as a witness.

He chuckled, then said: 'I thank the speaker, we continue to reserve the balance of our time,

Schiff ran the House impeachment inquiry. He chuckled after Zeldin's remark but did not comment

NO FIVE SECOND DELAY: Rep. Lee Zeldin, R-N.Y., speaks as the House of Representatives debates the articles of impeachment against President Donald Trump at the Capitol in Washington, Wednesday, Dec. 18, 2019

Zeldin regularly defends Trump on Fox News

President Trump has referred to Schiff, the House Intelligence chairman, as 'Adam Schitt'

In closed captioning the remark got turned into a curse

Zeldin, who appears frequently on Fox News, in his speech accused Schiff of 'cherry picking leaks, withholding key facts, and misstating evidence.'

Trump has attacked Schiff repeatedly, branding him with the nickname 'shifty Schiff' and once tweeting about Adam Schitt.'

The president tweeted in November: 'Gee, Pelosi & Schitt have a good idea, "lets Impeach the President."'

He also tweeted: 'So funny to see little Adam Schitt (D-CA) talking about the fact that Acting Attorney General Matt Whitaker was not approved by the Senate.'

Schiff brought forward a whistle-blower's complaint about Trump's July 25 phone call with the president of Ukraine, setting in motion the impeachment inquiry that brought two articles against Trump.