Two designer mums 'humiliated and degraded' by a model who called them 'h**s' said they still haven't received an apology for the vile outburst.

Sydney model Charlie Roberston filmed up-and-coming fashion designers Ashleigh Vallis and Amber Thais from her hotel balcony in Brisbane.

Posting three videos of them to her 52,000 Instagram followers, the model 'bullied' the woman and gave a 'humiliating' running commentary, they claimed.

The two friends had been posing for pictures by the hotel's pool, while unbeknownst to them they were being publically mocked.

Charlie Robertson (pictured) filmed the two fashion designers as they took pictures by a pool, calling them 'h**s'

Amber Thais (pictured left) and Ashleigh Vallis (right) have hit out at the model, saying they are yet to receive an apology after they were 'degraded' online

And despite issuing an apology for her 'insensitive comments' to a newspaper, the designers said they heard nothing from the model.

'There has been no apology issued,' Ms Thais said on Thursday.

'I'm so annoyed I can't even tell you. It's just a massive plug for her. There has been no support from anyone.

'It's such a disgrace to see that in this industry there's no support for women. We don't have a massive platform for her and so we've been swept under the rug, because I guess we're just nobodies.'

Ms Robertson is represented by Chic Management in Australia, and Two Management in Los Angeles.

While Ms Robertson (pictured) issued an apology to a newspaper, the two woman have not heard anything from her or her modelling agency

Ms Robertson (pictured) is represented by Chic Management in Australia, and Two Management in Los Angeles

The two women call out Ms Robertson on their own Instagram (pictured) saying they were 'two mothers trying to do our bit and grow our small businesses'

They also posted another bit of the footage filmed by Ms Robertson (pictured), writing over it 'why not support other woman rather than bring them down?'

She has shot campaigns for brands including Running Bare, Bras N Things, Moontide Swimwear and Homebodii.

Ms Thais went on to tell her Instragram followers that the model had 'violated their privacy' in the humiliating posts.

'She violated us, belittled us and degraded us,' she said.

'So for me, when you do wrong by someone you apologise to those people.

'It's just a joke. It went a bit further than calling us h**s, she preceded to film us for three stories and gave a humiliating running commentary of what we were doing.'

Charlie Robertson (pictured) told a newspaper her actions had been 'out of character' and 'inappropriate'

Ms Robertson had told the Daily Telegraph that she 'unreservedly apologised for the insensitive comments'.

'I really meant no ill will and in a time where women should be supporting other women,' she said.

'My actions were completely out of character and inappropriate. I have been inundated with shocking direct messages which has opened my eyes to the dangers of social media. I very much regret my actions.'

But Ms Thais, who runs Sydney brand Coco Willow, said the incident had gone 'beyond name-calling'.

'It's become the biggest nightmare,' she said.

'I won't be backing down from this bullying, there is no support for us whatsoever.

'I will fight for what is right and the industry needs to change. You do not treat anyone like this, it's a disgrace. The industry needs to change. You do not bully anyone, you do not degrade anyone, you do not degrade women.'

Her friend Ms Vallis, who runs brand Summi Summi, shared a similar sentiment online.

The model (pictured) was accused of 'bullying' the two up-and-coming designers after sharing the videos online

She said that even after the 'unnecessary drama', they still hadn't received an apology.

'Bullying is not ok,' she said. 'As many have been asking, neither Coco Willow or myself has received an apology.

'It's been nearly 48 hours now and I think the lack of acknowledgement is almost just as bad as the hateful words and public shaming in the first place.'

After being alerted to the offensive Instagram posts earlier this week, Ms Thais called out Ms Robertson online.

'Was this really necessary?' Ms Thais wrote on Instagram in response.

'We are 2 mothers trying to do our bit and grow our small businesses and supporting each other. Why not support other women rather than bring them down.'