A comedian has taken social media by storm after sharing the thoughts everyone has while walking around an IKEA store.

Matthew Hey, from Sydney, visited the store with the intention of choosing a few new household products, but found himself lost, confused by the foreign wording of items and craving the meatballs from the food court.

The 25-year-old filmed the experience for radio station Nova, starting the footage by saying he was only going to be 20 minutes inside, before picking up one of the signature yellow tarpaulin bags to begin.

Funnyman Matthew Hey (pictured), who is based in Sydney, visited the Scandinavian store with the intention of choosing a few new household products

Matthew finds it difficult to navigate the IKEA store and gets lost on multiple occasions

Matthew starts in the living room section of the store, sitting down on a chair that promptly tilts back - which scares him - and opening and shutting numerous lamp shades.

'This is bigger than my first apartment,' he comments on a ready-made room the furniture store sets up to look like a miniature home.

Before long the young man - who works as a DJ - found himself lost on the floor, calling it 'overwhelming' before getting sidetracked by another makeshift room.

At one point he finds a chair that is only big enough to fit one person. He calls it the 'singles chair'

Some of the Swedish words that are used to name the products made Matthew laugh

'This is why they put the beds in the middle because by the time you get here you're ready for a nap,' he said.

Matthew then proceeded to call his mother and ask her to measure the space between his bedroom wall and bed, should he want to purchase a chest of drawers.

He pokes fun at the artworks in IKEA for being 'unique' and complains when he arrives at the pick up section to find his shelves 'need to be built'.

When Matthew finally makes it out of the store he notices that it's dark and he has actually been there for a lot longer than he intended.

He grows excited at the mention of Swedish meatballs, which can be found in the IKEA food court

He pokes fun at the artworks in IKEA for being 'unique' and complains when he arrives at the pick up section to find his shelves 'need to be built' (pictured)

When Matthew finally makes it out of the store he notices that it's dark and he has actually been there for a lot longer than he intended

Thousands of his subscribers related to the video and said it was a 'nightmare' to get out of IKEA.

'The only thing is we dump the kids at the child minding place in IKEA then have anxiety attacks while shopping,' one woman said.

'I have done all of these things... maybe I need another trip back,' another person said.

The video has been watched thousands of times and received 4,000 likes on Facebook alone.