The spring series of the Jonathan Ross show has reportedly been shelved after a year of plummeting ratings.

The television presenter's Saturday night show is said to have been reduced to just one series a year, instead of two.

While there were two series of the show in 2019 and in the programme's early years, this historically hasn't always been the case and there was only one series in both 2017 and 2018.

Shelved: The spring series of the Jonathan Ross show has reportedly been axed after a year of plummeting ratings

An ITV spokesperson confirmed: 'The Jonathan Ross Show isn’t being axed and will return to ITV in 2020'.

The Sun reports that last Saturday's show, which had Cats' Jason Derulo, Rebel Wilson and actor Taron Egerton, drew 1.2million viewers compared to Graham Norton, who pulled in 2.6million viewers during his BBC show, which aired on Friday.

Graham hosted A-list stars Dame Judi Dench, Jennifer Hudson, Hugh Grant and Matthew McConaughey on Friday's installment of his hit show.

A source told the publication: 'There’s no doubting Jonathan is one of telly’s best chat show hosts, but his series is really struggling.

Cut back: The television presenter's Saturday night show is said to have been reduced to just one series a year, instead of two (pictured in October)

'When a show is rested, that usually means a broadcaster is hoping they can find something better to replace it and that certainly seems the case here.'

Jonathan moved from the BBC back in 2010 and series 15 began filming in September.

Competition between Jonathan and Graham Norton has always been fierce.

Back in March 2013, Ross bemoaned his declining ratings was due to a poor selection of guests, as some top celebrities seemed to prefer the atmosphere of The Graham Norton Show.

Low ratings: The Sun reports last Saturday's show, which had Cats' Jason Derulo, Rebel Wilson and actor Taron Egerton, drew 1.2million viewers

Ratings war: Graham Norton, meanwhile, pulled in 2.6million viewers during his BBC show, which aired on Friday

Jonathan told The Press at the time: 'I think Graham gets first bite of film guests.

'Some stars prefer his show over mine because they're less protected on my programme. If they go on Graham's, three guests all sit together on the sofa.'

Despite the spring series reportedly being shelved, the television host is still a firm favourite for ITV.

Jonathan will be a judge alongside Davina McCall, Rita Ora and actor Ken Jeong for the channel's new show, The Masked Singer.

The Masked Singer will air on ITV in January 2020 and is a new concept where celebrities hide behind a mask and the judges have to guess which star it is.

Speaking at the press launch last week, Jonathan said of working with Rita: 'We love Rita, but she was the kid of the team,' Jonathan said. 'She was on her f**king phone the whole time. Checking the gram, checking the gram, checking the gram.

'She said to me "I've just moved into a new house, I'm looking for a hoover". I had to say to her "you're recording a new big show - now is not the time to find yourself a hoover!"'

Jonathan joked he was like Rita's uncle and he and Davina 'shared her' in a 'joint-custody' arrangement.