Flipping Out star Jeff Lewis is ready to make the kind of commitment to his boyfriend of nine months - Scott Anderson - that he never did with his partner of a decade, Gage Edward.

'I got to put a ring on it. I'm going to have to put a ring on it. I would consider putting a ring on it,' the 49-year-old reality star told his boss/guest Andy Cohen during his titular SiriusXM show on Tuesday.

'We get along so well - me and the new guy. We get along really well. It's really nice.'

'I got to put a ring on it!' Flipping Out star Jeff Lewis (R) is ready to make the kind of commitment to his boyfriend of nine months - Scott Anderson (L) - that he never did with his partner of a decade, Gage Edward (pictured Wednesday)

The 49-year-old reality star (R) told his boss/guest Andy Cohen (L) during his titular SiriusXM show on Tuesday: 'I'm going to have to put a ring on it. I would consider putting a ring on it'

The interior designer-house flipper and Scott were originally set up by none other than The Millionaire Matchmaker Patti Stanger.

By contrast, Jeff said 'there was always some apprehension' when it came to popping the question to the 35-year-old business manager and they called it quits on January 31.

Lewis has not exactly been silent about his 'ugly' custody battle with Edward over their daughter Monroe Christine, whom they welcomed via surrogate in 2016.

Jeff continued: 'We get along so well - me and the new guy. We get along really well. It's really nice' (pictured Tuesday with Krista Llamas)

Who else? The interior designer-house flipper (R) and Scott were originally set up by none other than The Millionaire Matchmaker Patti Stanger (L, pictured October 22)

The ex: By contrast, Jeff said 'there was always some apprehension' when it came to popping the question to the 35-year-old business manager (R) and they called it quits on January 31 (pictured December 10)

'Functioning alcoholic': Lewis (R) has not exactly been silent about his 'ugly' custody battle with Edward over their daughter Monroe Christine (L), whom they welcomed via surrogate in 2016 (pictured September 28)

Last month, the USC alum called himself a 'functioning alcoholic' and admitted 'over the last two years, I have been leaning on alcohol' to cope with the end of his relationship.

Audiences first watched as Gage went from the OC native's employee to boyfriend to babydaddy during Bravo's home renovation series Flipping Out, which aired for 11 seasons ending 2018.