Jessica Mauboy released a new music video for her single, Selfish, on Wednesday.

And the clip is possibly her steamiest yet.

The singer, 30, is seen seducing three shirtless hunks in the clip - including Love Island Australia star Elias Chigros.

Scroll down for video

Turning the heat up! Jessica Mauboy (right) released her sexy new video for Selfish featuring steamy scenes with Love Island Australia's Elias Chigros (left) on Wednesday

Selfish is a track taken from Jessica's #1 fourth studio album, Hilda.

The ARIA Award-winning Australian artist puts on a saucy display in the clip, wearing a host of fun, flirty and racy ensembles.

She shares a variety of raunchy moments with the good-looking male models, who appear to play her multiple love interests in the clip.

Cuddling up to the hunks in the music video, Jessica is seen tracing their muscular abs with her finger as she belts out the cheeky track.

'This video is showing the side of me that’s playful, mature, sexy and cheeky': The ARIA Award-winning Australian artist puts on a saucy display in the clip in a host of fun, flirty and racy looks

Jessica serenades the men while singing lyrics such as, 'All night, lying in my bed daydreaming. Thinking 'bout your body next to mine' and 'I really need your lovin' tonight. Nobody else can make it alright'.

She is also filmed sitting next to shirtless Love Island Australia star Elias Chigros, 29, on poolside chairs, as he is restrained with wrist ties.

Later in a poolside scene, she dances around the men and pulls Elias in closer for a sweet moment.

Elias told Daily Mail Australia on Wednesday: 'It was a pleasure [to work with Jess], she has contagious energy and it was awesome to be around such raw talent.'

All tied up! Jessica also shares a steamy moment in bed with model Michael Kiper, who is tied down with ropes

Australian bodybuilder and model, Lawrence Templar, also features in the clip.

He gets interrogated by Jessica while sitting at a long table, and later is seen in swim trunks alongside the other male models.

Jessica also shares a steamy moment in bed with model Michael Kiper, who is tied down with ropes.

Her REAL man: Jessica recently announced her engagement to long-time partner, Themeli Magripilis

In a statement provided to Daily Mail Australia on Wednesday, Jessica said: 'This video is showing the side of me that’s playful, mature, sexy and cheeky, and helps shine the light on the different side of Jessica Mauboy and of HILDA.'

'I can’t wait to see you all adding it to your summer playlists, turning up the radio when you hear it, and just being super sassy and SELFISH!'

Jessica Mauboy's album Hilda is out now