If any venue was likely to test the new zen-like calm of Neil Lennon it was Tynecastle. With quarter of an hour to play the Celtic manager ripped off his cap and threw it to the sodden track in exasperation. The prime cause of the angst was referee Bobby Madden. The failure of his side to run up a cricket score didn't help.

'I was exasperated, yeah,' he grinned. 'We'll leave it at that. The referee is a top referee… I'm allowed to get exasperated at some decisions sometimes.' For journalists the restraint of the Parkhead boss during his second spell in charge is a slightly ominous development. Celtic, at least, are reaping the benefits.

The reward for this ninth straight win was a five point lead at the top of the SPFL Premiership. Ten points and 12 goals better off than at the same point last year, the improvement of Rangers has been bad news on that score. Yet goal difference, at least, should have ceased to be an issue last night. The manager's exasperation was heightened by the failure to score five or six.

Celtic moved five points clear at the top of the Scottish Premiership after beating Hearts

A four goal win would have been enough to dump Hearts at the foot of the table. In truth they could have done that by half-time and taken the second half off.

After 21 minutes on a freezing cold Edinburgh night Hearts counterpart Daniel Stendel exhaled and tore off his jacket. A nervous bundle of energy the German's perspiring state reflected the magnitude of the job he now faces transforming the fortunes of Hearts.

In the opening half hour of this game there was evidence of a plan. Even two goals down the Gorgie players stuck at it. Yet, by the end of another defeat the record read two wins from the last 18. At this rate the manager's sweat won't be enough. Stendel now needs some evidence of blood and tears as well. Starting at Hamilton on Saturday.

Celtic scored from their first coherent passing move of the night and never looked back.

Like the Tynecastle atmosphere the champion were uncharacteristically flat for 28 minutes. Ryan Christie's 17th goal of the season brought them to life.

Ryan Christie's 17th goal of the season had fired the champions into the lead at Tynecastle

MATCH FACTS Hearts: (4-2-3-1): Pereira 6; Brandon 4 (Clare 32), Halkett 5, Berra 5, Hickey 5; Smith 6, Damour 5; Bozanic 4 (Whelan 46), Wighton 5, Mulraney 5 (Henderson 61); MacLean 5 Subs not used: Zlamal, Dikamona, Keena, Meshino Booked: MacLean, Halkett, Damour, Smith Celtic (4-2-3-1): Forster 7; Frimpong 7, Ajer 7, Jullien 7, Hayes 5; Brown 7, McGregor 6; Christie 7, Ntcham 8, Forrest 7 (Bitton 83); Edouard 7 (Griffiths 84) Subs not used: Gordon, Taylor, Bayo, Morgan, Rogic Booked: Brown, Ajer Goals: Christie 28, Ntcham 40 Man of the Match: Olivier Ntcham Referee: Bobby Madden Attendance: 17,297

The strike came from James Forrest plucking a high ball from the air and linking up with Odsonne Edouard. As Hearts bodied swarmed all over the Frenchman it required a deft backheel to reconnect with Forrest as the winger continued his run.

It seemed the chance had gone when the winger failed to control. Yet Celtic carry danger in all areas. When one attack passes another swims along swiftly. So it was that Christie's diagonal run inside took control of the situation, a low left foot shot into the bottom corner of the net past the despairing dive of Hearts keeper Joel Pereira sending the Parkhead side on their way.

The loss of the goal sapped the spirit from Hearts legs. Early evidence of a Stendel bounce came in the opening stages as they roared in Celtic faces and pressed players in green and white shirts to distraction, disrupting their rhythm. In the final analysis it made no difference. Their reward for all that industry was the loss of a goal and, inevitably, the game.

When a team is in relegation trouble it never rains but it pours. Jamie Brandon limped from the pitch after 32 minutes, forcing Stendel to press Sean Clare on at right-back - a position where he rarely looks comfortable. At half-time the former Barnsley boss made another change, replacing Ollie Boazanic with Glenn Whelan. By then the game was effectively gone.

Hearts boss Daniel Stendel was forced to make a change with his side in danger of relegation

Two brilliant through balls from Olivier Ntcham, playing the number ten role, should have put Celtic out of sight before the interval. From the first Edouard uncharacteristically over-ran the ball, allowing Joel Pereira to smother. From the second James Forrest looked certain to score until he shaped his body all wrong and sidefooted a shot well wide of the right hand post.

The Celtic angst was short-lived. Ntcham clearly calculated that, if you want a job done, it's best to do it yourself.

A sharp breakaway began with Scott Brown dispossessing Loic Damour and sending Forrest clear on the left. Two on one with Edouard inside, the winger almost blew it when he failed to release the ball quickly. Head down and heading for byeline he still had too much for the flailing Christophe Berra, a drilled cross missing Edouard but falling perfectly for Ntcham volley the ball into the net on the penalty spot for 2-0.

Olivier Ntcham later tucked home Celtic's second after being teed up on the penalty spot

Their situation precarious, Hearts were duty bound to show willing. Striker Steven MacLean - as he does - threatened to overstep the mark when he left the boot in on Christopher Jullien.

Sean Clare's perseverance also crafted the chance for a rare Hearts shot on goal, the ball skidding harmlessly wide of Fraser Forster's far post.

To make a game of it Hearts had to be the next team to score. Without Steven Naismith or Uche Ikpueza in the squad it was beyond them. Desperately short of quality, only an offside flag prevented the game stretching out of sight when Callum McGregor bundled the ball home.

Celtic's players jubilantly celebrated their ninth straight win in front of the travelling section

Edouard - the late hero on Celtic's last visit to Tynecastle - had an unusually wasteful night. The striker grazed the outside of the post with a close range header from a McGregor cross he should have scored. A subsequent claim for a penalty drew only a shake of the head from referee Bobby Madden. Inexplicably left alone at the back post from a piercing free-kick, the under-21 international was then denied yet again by Pereira.

Tracking who plays in goals for Hearts from one game to the next is no easy task. In each of the last five games the Tynecastle side have started a different keeper. Restored to the team for Bobby Zlamal Manchester United loan keeper Pereira justified the recall with a more solid display here, keeping his team in the game yet again when he raced from his line to deny McGregor the third goal after 67 minutes.

The respite shown by Celtic players was never likely to be matched by the away support. In a rare break from their tedious IRA songbook the final minutes were marked by a rendition of, 'Hearts are going down.' A few weeks ago the idea would have seemed preposterous. Now? Defeat to Hamilton on Saturday will make it feel dangerously possible.