She's the former Home and Away star known for her incredible figure.

And on Thursday, Pia Miller revealed the secrets to her flawless physique as she completed a gruelling workout with her personal trainer, Jono Castano.

Wearing a crop top, T-shirt and high-waisted leggings, the mother-of-two did a series of ab-toning exercises, with her trainer sharing a video to Instagram.

So that's how she does it! Former Home and Away star Pia Miller (pictured) revealed the secret to her incredible figure on Thursday as she completed a gruelling workout with her personal trainer Jono Castano

In the footage, Pia is first pictured completing a set of leg raises while leaning on the floor and using a resistance band.

She then focusses on her strength as she uses her arms to carry her body weight and repeatedly extends her legs out.

The actress is also pictured holding a plank while still using a resistance band around her legs.

Look at her go! Wearing a crop top, T-shirt and high-waisted leggings, the mother-of-two did a series of ab-toning exercises, with her trainer Jono Castano sharing a video to Instagram

Body sculpting: The stunner did a variety of exercises that help tone her figure, using resistance bands

She then holds a side bridge position while completing an arm workout and holding a dumbbell.

As well as completing an intense workout on the regular, Pia recently revealed that she also enjoys Pilates sessions.

Taking to Instagram in November, she shared a photo of herself at Waterloo's Fluidform Pilates, a Pilates studio favoured by the stars and well-heeled Sydney socialites.

Flawless! As well as completing an intense workout on the regular, Pia recently revealed that she also enjoys Pilates sessions

Looking good: Taking to Instagram in November, she shared a photo of herself at Waterloo's Fluidform Pilates (pictured), a Pilates studio favoured by the stars and well-heeled Sydney socialites

The Chilean-born beauty recently also told her fans her skincare secrets, revealing that she exclusively uses skincare by Liberty Belle Rx, formulated by world-renowned plastic surgeon Dr Chris Moss.

She shared a photo of her seven products, including cleaners, exfoliators, hydration serums, moisturisers and eye creams, which each item ranging from $70 to $158.

Pia said that her off-duty look is helped by a $30 makeup remover by Bioderm and a $53 dry brush from Stass and Co.