He stars alongside Al Pacino and Joe Pesci in Martin Scorsese's new Netflix movie The Irishman.

And Robert De Niro appeared in high spirits as he attended a screening of the critically-lauded film, held at Selfridges' cinema in London on Wednesday night.

Continuing to brush off his recent Golden Globes snub, the veteran actor, 76, seemed to have a ball as he hosted the event and addressed the crowd.

Man of the moment: Robert De Niro, 76, appeared in high spirits as he hosted a screening of the critcally-lauded Netflix movie, The Irishman, at Selfridges in London on Wednesday

De Niro has been on a promo trail for the newly-released film that tells the story of Frank Sheehan (also known as The Irishman) and his life as a hitman.

The movie is based on the book, I Heard You Paint Houses, and the Hollywood great was on hand to introduce The Irishman to those in the crowd at the designer department store.

He cut a smart yet casual figure in charcoal grey jeans, a striped polo shirt and black blazer and was joined by film-maker Ben Wheatley to host a Q&A.

Having a ball: The veteran actor put on an animated display as he hosted a Q&A with film-maker Ben Wheatley and the cinema audience

Happy: The Hollywood great appeared to brush off his recent Golden Globes snub, as he entertained the crowd

Discussing The Irishman, which reportedly cost $160million to make and is the latest offering from acclaimed director Scorsese, De Niro put on an animated display.

It was the actor himself who had initiated filming the project, after being left inspired by the book the movie is based on.

So far, The Irishman has won itself plenty of nods ahead of the upcoming award season, but while it was recognised in the nominations for the 2020 Golden Globes, De Niro missed out on a nomination for his leading role.

Inspired: It was De Niro who had first initiated making The Irishman, after being inspired by the book the movie is based on, I Heard You Paint Houses

Surprising: So far, The Irishman has won itself plenty of nods ahead of the upcoming award season, but while it was recognised in the nominations for the 2020 Golden Globes, De Niro missed out on a nod for his leading role

Instead, the film picked up two Supporting Actor nominations, as well as Best Screenplay, Best Director and Best Motion Picture.

Brushing off the snub, however, De Niro will no doubt be chuffed to be recognised in the Best Actor category at the 25th Annual Critics' Choice Awards.

The Irishman leads the nominations for the awards ceremony, after picking up 14 nominations within the 23 possible categories.

High praise: De Niro will no doubt be chuffed to be recognised in the Best Actor category at the 25th Annual Critics' Choice Awards

Hit: The Irishman was released on Netflix last month and it was later revealed that 26.4million households worldwide had watched the movie in its first week of streaming

While De Niro is up for Best Actor, Al Pacino and Pesci have been recognised for their supporting roles and Scorsese landed a nod in the Best Director category.

The Irishman was released on Netflix last month and it was later revealed by the streaming service that 26.4million households worldwide had watched the movie in its first week of streaming.

It's reportedly one of this year's most widely watched Oscar contenders and The New York Film Critics Circle, along with the National Board of Review, named The Irishman the best film of the year.