A firenado has torn through bushland outside of Perth - as out-of-control blazes cause a state of emergency in New South Wales and evacuations in Queensland.

Footage showed the fire twister burning close to the ground outside the Western Australian capital.

The centre of the flames rose towards the sky in a tight loop, while thick black smoke danced around it.

A tornado made of fire has torn through bushland outside of Perth. Footage showed the flames burning close to the ground outside the Western Australian capital

Western Australia's Bureau of Meteorology has severe fire warnings for Gascoyne, Ravensthorpe Shire, Goldfields, Eucla, South Interior, Esperance Shire Inland, Lakes, Ninghan, Jilbadgie, Pilbabra, Striling Inland and Roe.

BOM told Daily Mail Australia temperatures in the south west part of the state are expected to fall with a cold front forecast for Thursday.

Meanwhile the north and east of the state and near the border with South Australia will exceed 40C going into the weekend.

On Wednesday the warning for the Yanchep fire, north of Perth, was downgraded to act to advice.

The flames bent as it was contorted by the wind while thick black smoke danced around tornado made of fire as it burned

The fire burned through 13,000 hectares of land, a home and a petrol station.

Bushfires continue to rage across the country with a state of emergency declared for New South Wales on Thursday.

Premier Gladys Berejiklian says residents need to follow the advice of authorities over the next week, with extra diversions and road closures to be installed, and revise their Christmas plans.

The last state of emergency, which also ran for seven days in mid-November amid 'catastrophic' fire risk, was the first implemented in NSW since 2013.

Western Australia's Bureau of Meteorology has severe fire warnings (pictured in the map above) for areas such as Gascoyne, Ravensthorpe Shire, Goldfields, Eucla, South Interior, Esperance Shire Inland, Lakes, Ninghan, Jilbadgie, Pilbabra, Striling Inland and Roe

The state of emergency allows powers to be transferred from the government to Rural Fire Service commissioner Shane Fitzsimmons, including the ability to control and co-ordinate the allocation of resources and evacuate people from property within a declared area.

Mr Fitzsimmons will also be able to direct any NSW government agency to conduct or refrain from conducting its functions.

Dangerous fire conditions are threatening large parts of the state as up to 100 bushfires rage and communities prepare for a day of high temperatures.

On Wednesday the warning for the Yanchep fire (pictured on December 13), north of Perth, was downgraded to act to advice

The RFS has extreme fire danger warnings in place for the Greater Sydney, Illawarra and Shoalhaven and Southern Ranges areas.

Mr Fitzsimmons said on fire behaviour would be erratic due to volatile winds.

'Whilst today is going to be a very bad day, dangerous day here in NSW, the forecast is that Saturday will be even worse, so we're talking about very dangerous conditions over the coming days,' he said.

The Yanchep fire (pictured on December 13) had burned 13,000 hectares of land, a home and a petrol station

'We have sought the support of the premier in ensuring we have invoked the highest level of instrument available in the state to ensure the fullest level of co-operation and integration between the multi-agency, whole-of-government team effort.'

A statewide total fire ban announced on Tuesday will remain in place until at least midnight on Saturday.

Mr Fitzsimmons said the main concern on Thursday would be fires surrounding Ulladulla and Batemans Bay on the south coast, particularly the 100,000-hectare Currowan fire, as well as blazes behind the Warragamba Dam.

The huge Gospers Mountain fire northwest of Sydney was continuing to burn out of control on multiple fronts in the Wollemi National park.

A state of emergency was declared in New South Wales as the Gospers Mountain fire (pictured December 17) reached 410,000ha

The Gospers Mountain fire, which is ravaging the Wollemi National Park, could meet the Green Wattle Creek blaze as New South Wales battles temperatures scaling above 40C on Thursday

The 410,000ha fire was a watch and act level on Thursday morning but there was no immediate threat to property.

The Bureau of Meteorology expects most of inland NSW will see temperatures in the mid 40s while areas west of the Sydney CBD are expected to top 41C.

Of the fires burning around the state, more than half are uncontained.

Mr Fitzsimmons said Australian Defence Force aircraft, logistics and operations expertise would be put to use fighting fires on Thursday.

The Bureau of Meteorology expects most of inland NSW will see temperatures in the mid 40s while areas west of the Sydney CBD are expected to top 41C

'As the premier has quite rightly indicated, we know this is a precious time of year for families to connect and unite and spend time with one another but I would really reinforce the message of the premier to re-evaluate, consider and assess your travel options,' Mr Fitzsimmons said.

In Queensland the fires have forced hundreds of residents to flee their home, according to a fire chief.

Sunshine Coast residents have been allowed to go home after fleeing a volatile fire that started near Peregian Springs about lunchtime on Wednesday.

Pictured: Bushfires ravage Bells Line of Road at Mt Wilson in the Blue Mountains

The fire service issued a warning about the fire at 1.20pm. By 2.45pm, the Sunshine Motorway was cut, police had issued an emergency declaration, and residents were being told to leave unless they had a survival plan.

The fire - the third major blaze in the area since September - continues to burn on Thursday, with a prepare to leave warning in place for Peregian Springs, Lake Weyba and Weyba Downs.

Queensland Fire and Emergency Services Deputy Commissioner Mark Roche says the situation could worsen again very quickly, and people must be ready to evacuate.

He could not confirm reports the fire may have been deliberately lit.

'To think yesterday morning there was no fire there, and then by evening we had to commit 80 appliances, 80 crews, and also support staff,' he told ABC radio.

'These are significantly difficult conditions.'

There are currently 69 fires burning across Queensland including one that's blazing on multiple fronts at Lowmead near Gladstone.

Pictured: The out-of-control Green Wattle Creek bushfire burning near Braddocks Rd, Werombi, on December 5

A statewide total fire ban announced on Tuesday will remain in place in NSW until at least midnight on Saturday. Gospers Mountain fire pictured

It is not yet under control and crews have not been able to get to fire affected areas to confirm reports that some buildings were lost there on Wednesday.

A very high fire danger warning is in place on Thursday for the Wide Bay and Burnett region, the Darling Downs and Granite Belt, the central highlands and coalfields, and the northern goldfields and upper Flinders regions.

That will worsen to severe on Friday for the Darling Downs and Granite Belt, and central highlands and coalfields.

A heatwave which has gripped the country has made conditions very tough for firefighters, who battled through Australia's hottest recorded day on Tuesday.

'It is a very dire situation across the whole state,' Mr Roche said.