Tobacco tycoon Travers 'The Candyman' Beynon welcomed his model daughter home by covering his palatial mansion in chocolate sauce as part of an 'Elf on the Shelf' prank.

To celebrate Lucciana's arrival home from London - where she had been pursuing a modelling career - Beynon covered the corridors, walls and furniture of his Gold Coast 'Candyshop' in sticky chocolate topping.

Beynon took part in the craze that sees parents place a tiny elf around the house to keep an eye on them and 'improve kids' behaviour by encouraging them to stay on Santa's 'nice list'.

The businessman, who is famous for his polyamorous relationships and partying lifestyle, spread dozens of containers worth of chocolate syrup in his home.

Beynon took part in the craze that sees parents place a tiny elf around the house to keep an eye on them and 'improve kids' behaviour by encouraging them to stay on Santa's 'nice list'

His eight-year-old daughter Seraphina struggled to walk down the hallway which was completely covered in chocolate syrup

Beynon started the prank by pouring a trail of syrup leading from his kitchen to the hallways on Wednesday night.

The father-of-four filmed his two youngest daughters' reactions to the bizarre prank.

His eight-year-old daughter Seraphina struggled to walk down the hallway which was completely covered in chocolate syrup.

The little girl slipped over a number of times, covering her nightie in thick chocolate sauce.

The Instagram Story video then showed her discovering the 'Elf on a Shelf' at the top of the stairs, next to the trail of chocolate.

But Beynon didn't stop there. He smeared caramel sauce over the girl's bedroom door and on top of her phone.

Travers 'The Candyman' Beynon welcomed home his daughter Lucciana, 17, from London where she was pursuing her modelling career

Lucciana, 17, had been in London modelling, and returned home on Wednesday night

'Now we can't get out,' Seraphina said, pointing at her bedroom door handle which was also covered in sticky sauce.

Lucciana then came out of her room to discover the mess her father had made.

'What the f**k is going on?' she said.

Beynon lives in the mansion, which boasts seven bedrooms, nine bathrooms and a garage big enough to store 21 cars, with his two girlfriends and his wife Taesha.

Others come to the famous mansion to visit on weekends for parties, or it is used for photoshoots which are uploaded to his social media pages.

His girlfriends live with him full time in the palatial mansion, and spend their days by the pool, attending photoshoots and dress fittings, and partying with the businessman.

While Mr Beynon has up to 30 women at his home on a weekend, only two girlfriends live and sleep with him and his wife full time.

Those women are asked not to date anyone else and can bring their families to the mansion to visit.

Despite their unusual living arrangement, Mr Beynon has previously told Daily Mail Australia he enjoys a strong and loving relationship with his wife.

The notorious playboy said his unusual marriage works because Taesha loves their extraordinary sex lives.