She was cut out of her estranged husband Ric Ocasek's will before his sudden death in September.

But Paulina Porizkova isn't letting the matter rest.

The model, 54, has filed documents in Manhattan surrogate’s court seeking one-third of the late Cars singer's estate, according to PageSix.com.

Paulina Porizkova filed legal documents in Manhattan's surrogate court on Tuesday seeking an 'elective share' of the late Ric Ocasek's estate, even though he wrote her out of his will

The couple were separated and going through a divorce at the time of Ocasek's death at 75 on September 15.

But since they were not legally divorced, Porizkova, as his widow, may be entitled under New York law to an 'elective share' of his estate.

Ocasek specifically addressed the rule in his will, stating: 'Even if I should die before our divorce is final… Paulina is not entitled to any elective share… because she has abandoned me.'

However, unless it can be proven in court that she did abandon him, she will likely be entitled to a one-third share of the musician's assets, which are listed as $5 million in 'copyrights', $100,000 in 'tangible personal property' and $15,000 in cash.

Ocasek and Porizkova (pictured in May) were separated at the time of Ocasek's death at 75 on September 15. But since they were not legally divorced, Porizkova, as his widow, is entitled under New York law to one-third of his estate unless it's proven in court she did abandon him

On the day she filed the legal paperwork, the Czech-born Sports Illustrated Swimsuit model shared a cryptic post to her Instagram.

Alongside a photo of her refrigerator filled with cough for making cookies, she wrote: 'I may not have a lot of “dough” in the bank, but I sure have a lot of dough in my fridge' and added a winking emoji.

Last week, she had posted a long message to her social media followers in which she divulged that she was dealing with 'grief' and 'anger' and 'breaking a little under the weight of it all'.

On she filed the legal paperwork, the Czech-born Sports Illustrated Swimsuit model shared a cryptic post to her Instagram

Porizkova met Ocasek on set while The Cars were filming the music video for Drive in 1984 and she became his third wife in 1989. They are pictured together in New York in 1990

Porizkova met Ocasek on set while The Cars were filming the music video for Drive in 1984 and she became his third wife in 1989.

They had two sons together - Jonathan, 26, and Oliver, 21 - but split in May 2018 after 28 years of marriage.

Though divorcing, they continued to share a New York townhouse and that is where Porizkova found the famed rock star dead on the morning of Sunday September 15.

A medical examiner determined he died from hypertensive and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease with pulmonary emphysema being a contributing factor.