Advertisement

Donald Trump tore into 'crazy Nancy Pelosi' and her legions of House Democrats last night after he became the third president in history to be impeached, setting up a trial in the Senate to decide his fate.

The House voted to charge Trump on two counts - abuse of power and obstruction of Congress - while he was on stage at a Michigan rally.

The rally was meant to be Christmas-themed, but turned into a furious tirade in which Trump called impeachment a 'perversion' and declared that Democrats 'consumed with hatred' had 'branded themselves with an eternal mark of shame'.

'The Democrats are declaring their deep hatred and disdain for the American voter,' he said, urging his supporters to vote Pelosi 'the hell out of office'.

The Senate trial is expected next month, but Pelosi warned last night she could delay it until 'fair' procedures are agreed - setting up a stand-off with Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell.

After a marathon 10-hour debate on Wednesday, the House voted 230-197 to impeach Trump for abuse of power - accusing him of using his powers for personal gain by pressuring Ukraine to investigate Joe Biden.

Moments later, the House voted 229-198 to impeach Trump on a second charge of obstruction of Congress.

After Andrew Johnson in 1868 and Bill Clinton in 1998, Trump is the third president to be impeached by the House, but he is expected to survive his Senate trial as they did. Richard Nixon resigned in 1974 before he could be impeached and removed.

The votes were mostly on party lines, with no Republicans backing impeachment and only three Democrats breaking ranks to vote against. Another Democrat, presidential hopeful Tulsi Gabbard, voted 'present'.

Trump seized on the results at the rally, saying: 'So we got - every single Republican voted for us. Woaahhh. Wow. Almost 200. We didn't lose one Republican vote. And, and, three Democrats for us.'

The US president also found an ally in his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin, who said today that the claims against Trump were 'made up'.

President Donald Trump unleashed on his opponents at a rally in Michigan last night (pictured), which was taking place just as the House of Representatives voted to impeach him, triggering a Senate trial to decide his fate

President Trump arrives Wednesday night at the rally site in Michigan, minutes before the House voted to impeach him

Speaker Nancy Pelosi presided over the impeachment vote in the House of Representatives (pictured). She earned a standing ovation from Democratic lawmakers after opening the debate in the well of the house

Voting underway in the House of Representatives last night, where Republicans rushed to the speaker's dais to cast paper ballots in the two historic votes on articles of impeachment

On a momentous day in U.S. history:

Trump boasted of his 'tremendous support' during a freewheeling rally in Michigan, in which he also took aim at favorite enemies including Joe Biden and Hillary Clinton, and a heckler was thrown out;

The president also sparked fury by suggesting that former Congressman John Dingell had gone to hell after he died, after his widow Debbie Dingell voted for impeachment;

Former Nixon White House counsel John Dean said Pelosi has 'leverage' over the Senate impeachment trial after she indicated she could withhold the charges until rules are agreed;

Democrat Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez took aim at Tulsi Gabbard for voting 'present', commenting that 'we are sent here to lead', while Pelosi scolded Democrats who had started to celebrate the vote;

A raft of celebrities took to social media to respond to the impeachment votes, with many including singer John Legend welcoming the news, while others such as actor Jon Voight came to Trump's defense;

White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham reacted angrily to a tweet by a Washington Post reporter wishing her followers a 'Merry Impeachmas';

Attorney general William Barr said he was concerned about impeachment becoming 'trivialized and used as a political tool';

A Gallup poll published on Wednesday found that Trump's approval rating had increased since October, rising to 45 per cent.

The previous presidents who faced impeachment Andrew Johnson, 1868 Democrat Andrew Johnson, who became president after the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, pushed for reconstruction in the wake of the Civil War, including reintegrating the southern states into the Union. But he clashed with Congress over racist laws the ex-Tennessee military governor backed after they were voted for by representatives from the South. In the impasse, Mr Johnson fired his secretary of war, prompting Congress to launch impeachment proceedings – the first in US history. On February 24, 1868, the House of Representatives voted 11 articles of impeachment. But after a trial lasting several weeks, the Senate fell one vote short of the two-thirds majority required for a conviction. Johnson stayed in office but lost his party's bid to run for the next elections. Impeached in 1868: Andrew Johnson Richard Nixon, 1974 During Nixon's 1972 campaign for re-election, burglars were sent to bug the Democratic headquarters in the Watergate building in Washington. The raid was bungled and the offenders were caught, in a scandal revealed by investigative reporters at the Washington Post. Nixon tried to hide his involvement but on July 24, 1974 the US Supreme Court ordered him to hand over clandestine recordings of his private Oval Office conversations that provided proof he and his top advisers engaged in an elaborate cover-up of the crime. On July 30, the House Judiciary Committee approved three impeachment articles. Before they could be considered by the House of Representatives, which would almost certainly have voted against him, Nixon resigned. Jumped before he was pushed: Richard Nixon Bill Clinton, 1998 In 1998, Bill Clinton denied under oath 'having sexual relations with that woman Monica Lewinsky' – a White House intern aged 22. Lewinsky at first also denied any improper relationship but later admitted to it, as Mr Clinton eventually did. It led to calls for his impeachment for lying under oath. The House judiciary committee – voting mostly along party lines – approved four articles of impeachment. On December 19, the House voted for impeachment on two of them: perjury before a grand jury and obstruction of justice. But in the subsequent Senate trial, the 45 Democratic senators stayed united against the 55 Republicans - some of whom voted with the Democrats - to block a two-thirds vote for Clinton's conviction. He then remained in office until the end of his term in January 2001. Impeached in 1998: Bill Clinton

The president stepped onstage for his rally in Battle Creek, Michigan, just minutes before the House began voting on impeachment.

'By the way, by the way, it doesn't really feel like we're being impeached,' Trump said. 'I'm having a good time, it's crazy,' he remarked later after the vote concluded.

'The country is doing better than ever before. We did nothing wrong and we have tremendous support in the Republican party like we've never had before.

'The Democrats always stick together. Think of it - three Democrats went over to our side. That's unheard of.'

Two Democrats voted against the abuse of power charge: Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey, who is considering switching parties to become a Republican, and Collin Peterson of Minnesota.

A third Democrat, Jared Golden of Maine, joined them in voting against the obstruction of Congress charge.

Tulsi Gabbard voted 'present' on both charges, saying Trump had 'violated public trust' but that voters would be able to hold him accountable in the 2020 election.

'I could not in good conscience vote against impeachment because I believe President Trump is guilty of wrongdoing,' she explained.

'I also could not in good conscience vote for impeachment because removal of a sitting President must not be the culmination of a partisan process, fueled by tribal animosities that have so gravely divided our country.'

She earned an immediate rebuke from Alexandria Ocasio Cortez, who said: 'We are sent here to lead.'

Pelosi voted yes on both articles, casting a rare vote.

The House speaker, 79, earned a standing ovation from Democratic lawmakers after opening the debate in the well of the house.

'As speaker of the House I solemnly and sadly open the debate on the impeachment of the president of the United States,' she said.

'If we do not act now, we would be derelict in our duty,' she It is tragic that the president's reckless actions make impeachment necessary. He gave us no choice.'

After declaring Trump impeached, Pelosi called it a 'great day for the Constitution of the United States, a sad one for America that the president's reckless activities necessitated us having to introduce articles of impeachment'. She also scolded fellow Democrats who had begun to celebrate.

White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham blasted the impeachment vote as 'one of the most shameful political episodes in the history of our Nation.'

'The President is confident the Senate will restore regular order, fairness, and due process, all of which were ignored in the House proceedings. He is prepared for the next steps and confident that he will be fully exonerated,' she said in a statement after the votes were concluded.

Grisham also reacted angrily to a tweet by Washington Post reporter Rachel Bade, in which she shared a photo of Post journalists celebrating 'Merry Impeachmas'.

Vladimir Putin also came to Trump's defense today, saying that the claims against his US counterpart were 'made up'.

Echoing the White House's language, Putin said the 'party that lost the election is continuing the fight by other means'.

Trump's fate will now be decided in a Senate trial, for which the exact procedures have not yet been agreed.

Pelosi has threatened to withhold the articles of impeachment, effectively delaying the trial, until McConnell outlines what the procedures will be in the Senate.

'So far, we haven't seen anything that looks fair to us,' she said.

'We have legislation approved by the Rules Committee that will enable us to decide how we will send over the articles of impeachment. We cannot name managers until we see what the process is on the Senate side, and I would hope that that will be soon, as we did with their legislation,' she noted.

'We will make our decision as to when we're going to send - when we see what they're doing on the Senate side,' Pelosi added.

Richard Nixon's former White House counsel John Dean told CNN that Pelosi had 'leverage' over the Senate trial because there was no rule forcing her to send the articles to the Senate.

In a long rally in Michigan, Trump took aim at many of his favorite targets: Hillary Clinton, Adam Schiff, Nancy Pelosi and the reporters covering the event.

'Through their depraved actions today Crazy Nancy Pelosi's House Democrats have branded themselves with an eternal mark of shame,' he said.

'I tell you these people are crazy,' he said of Congress, as the impeachment vote went on.

Trump waves as he arrives back at the White House in the early hours of Thursday morning after his Michigan campaign rally

The voting board in the House during the impeachment vote, which went mostly along party lines

What will happen in the Senate trial? Under the Constitution's impeachment process, the House of Representatives acts as prosecutor and the Senate as jury. Last night the House confirmed its charges against Trump, accusing him of abuse of power and obstruction of Congress. Trump now faces a trial in the Senate, where a two-thirds majority - 67 votes - is required to convict him and remove him from office. The two previous presidents to be impeached, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton, were both acquitted in the Senate. If the procedures used in those previous trials are repeated, Democratic prosecutors or 'House managers' will enter the Senate to read out the charges. The Senate votes during Bill Clinton's trial in 1999 John Roberts, the chief justice of the Supreme Court, will be sworn in to preside over the trial. The next step, the procedures, are to be decided by the senators. A battle has already erupted between Republican majority leader Mitch McConnell and top Democrat Chuck Schumer over whether witnesses will be called and evidence demanded. Democrats hope that four Republicans might join them to form a majority forcing McConnell to allow witnesses. Those issues could prolong the trial from the two weeks McConnell envisions to over a month. Clinton's trial ran five weeks. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said after the vote that she would not select House managers or send the impeachment articles to the Senate until she is assured the proposed rules for the trial are fair. Pelosi said that McConnell 'says it's OK for the foreman of the jury to be in cahoots with the lawyers of the accused. That doesn't sound right to us.' Until the articles are submitted, the Senate cannot hold the trial. Asked if she could guarantee that she would send the articles to the Senate, Pelosi said: 'That would have been our intention, adding: 'We have done what we set out to do.'

At the rally, Trump also blasted a female protester who flipped him the bird, calling her a 'slob' and a 'disgusting person'.

Trump touted his Space Force, but added, 'Democrats do not like our military.'

He gave NBC's parent company, Comcast, a new name: 'Commie-cast.'

He even brought up Bill Clinton, the last president to be impeached, and mused whether Bill also uses Trump's nickname for Hillary Clinton: 'crooked.'

'And I hear she wants to run again - wouldn't that be great?' he said of his former nemesis. His supporters quickly responded with the familiar chant of 'Lock her up!'.

Trump mentioned Mr Clinton as he recalled how his predecessor advised the Hillary Clinton campaign to turn its attention to some of the Rust Belt states that eventually tilted to Trump in 2016.

'So what happens, so what happens is Bill Clinton said to Crooked Hillary, her very dishonest wife, said, 'Crooked Hillary' - Do you think he calls her Crooked Hillary? He might. Maybe he just calls her 'Crooked'. He said, 'Crooked, I'm telling you, Crooked, I don't like what I'm seeing in Michigan. I don't like what I'm seeing in Wisconsin either,'' Trump riffed.

'And he said, 'You horrible human being, you're going to start listening to me, because you're going to get your a** whooped!' And you know what happened? You know what happened? She didn't listen, fortunately,' Trump said.

Trump used the same profanity in reference to former FBI director James Comey. 'Did I do a great job when I fired his a**?' Trump asked his supporters.

The president eventually turned to the story at the heart of the impeachment scandal - Ukraine.

Trump continued to push his storyline that Joe Biden pushed for the removal of a Ukrainian prosecutor to protect his son Hunter, who was on the board of gas company Burisma.

In reality, the prosecutor's ouster came because he wasn't addressing corruption. Hunter Biden did serve on Burisma's board.

During the House debate last night, Democratic Rep. Jerrold Nadler accused Republican Louie Gohmert of spouting 'Russian propaganda on the floor of the House' after Gohmert said the impeachment inquiry was impeding an investigation of alleged Ukrainian interference in the 2016 election.

Trump admits asking Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelensky to investigate Biden, but denies pressuring him with a 'quid pro quo'.

The articles of impeachment allege that Trump's actions were an improper use of presidential power for his own gain, by targeting Joe Biden who is a front-runner for the Democratic nomination in 2020.

'If that was me, it would be the electric chair - they'd bring the electric chair back,' Trump said of what would happen if he did what Biden supposedly did and pushed out the prosecutor.

Yesterday a Gallup poll showed that the president's approval rating has improved over the course of the impeachment proceedings, reaching 45 per cent in a survey conducted between December 2-15.

The figure was six points up from 39 per cent in October – just days after Pelosi announced the launch of the impeachment inquiry.

Congressman Jeff Van Drew (pictured center departing the Capitol last night), a Democrat from New Jersey, voted with the Republican minority in the last night and is considering switching parties

Defectors: Democratic congressmen Collin Peterson (left) and Jared Golden (right) voted against the impeachment articles

Hawaii congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (pictured), a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020, voted 'present' on the impeachment charges - saying she could not 'in good conscience' vote for or against

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi speaks with Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam Schiff, Chairwoman of the House Committee on Oversight and Reform Carolyn Maloney, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Rep. Jerrold Nadler, Chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Eliot Engel, House Ways and Means Chairman Richard Neal and Chairwoman of the House Financial Services Committee Maxine Waters after the House vote

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi kept her Democrats in line during the impeachment process

Vladimir Putin comes to Trump's defense Vladimir Putin has come to Donald Trump's defense after the US president was impeached, saying the claims against him are 'far-fetched' and 'made up'. The Russian president told an end-of-year news conference that Trump was likely to survive a Senate trial which is expected next month. Echoing the White House's language, Putin said the 'party that lost the election is continuing the fight by other means'. Putin also likened the impeachment to the Robert Mueller probe into Trump's alleged links to Russia, which threw up no hard evidence of collusion. Vladimir Putin at a news conference in Moscow today 'It still needs to go through the Senate, where the Republicans have a majority,' Putin said today. Predicting that Trump would stay in office, he said: 'It is hardly likely that they are going to push out of office a representative of their own party, on grounds that are absolutely made up.' Putin added that Russia is ready to agree on a new START arms treaty with the United States, but that there has been no response to Russian proposals. The Russian leader has cast a long shadow over US politics since Russia was accused of interfering in the 2016 presidential race. US intelligence believes that Russia tried to help Trump win, but Trump himself has queried those findings.

Trump's attorney general William Barr also came out in his defense yesterday, telling Fox News that impeachment was being 'trivialized'.

'The articles of impeachment here do not allege a violation of law, and it looks as if it's going to be along partisan lines,' he said before the vote.

'I'm concerned about it being trivialized and used as a political tool.'

The president made fun of a handful of Democratic contenders at the rally: Elizabeth Warren, Pete Buttigieg and Beto O'Rourke, who has already dropped out of the 2020 race.

But Biden held his attention. 'In many ways I'd like to see him win,' Trump said.

An audience member then yelled that Biden 'doesn't know where he is,' giving the president a laugh. Biden has twice said the wrong state while campaigning.

Trump also tore into Democratic Rep. Debbie Dingell, whose husband John, a longtime Democratic member of Congress, died in February.

'Debbie Dingell, that's a real beauty,' Trump noted. He talked about how he approved a state funeral for John and recalled how Debbie Dingell had remarked that he was 'thrilled' looking down from heaven.

'Maybe he's looking up!' Trump suggested, earning some groans from the crowd.

The president also blasted eco-friendly toilets that don't flush well, returning to a theme which he has already discussed this month.

'Sinks. Showers. And what does with a sink and a shower? Crowd?' he asked, daring the press to drag him in headlines over the potty talk. 'Ten times. Right? Ten times.'

'Not me, of course, not me. But you,' he added. After toilets, he discussed toupees.

Trump brought up his wife Melania several times, remarking on the 'fantastic journey' he's taken her on. He also boasted that his son Barron Trump would get bigger crowds than 'Pocahontas' Warren.

READ THE ARTICLES OF IMPEACHMENT AGAINST DONALD TRUMP In 1,414 words, the articles of impeachment passed by the House of Representatives Wednesday lay out two charges against President Donald Trump. Article I: Abuse of Power Using the powers of his high office, President Trump solicited the interference of a foreign government, Ukraine, in the 2020 United States Presidential election. Accused: Donald Trump has two articles of impeachment against him He did so through a scheme or course of conduct that included soliciting the Government of Ukraine to publicly announce investigations that would benefit his reelection, harm the election prospects of a political opponent, and influence the 2020 United States Presidential election to his advantage. President Trump also sought to pressure the Government of Ukraine to take these steps by conditioning official United States Government acts of significant value to Ukraine on its public announcement of the investigations. President Trump engaged in this scheme or course of conduct for corrupt purposes in pursuit of personal political benefit. In so doing, President Trump used the powers of the Presidency in a manner that compromised the national security of the United States and undermined the integrity of the United States democratic process.' Article II: Obstruction of Congress As part of this impeachment inquiry, the Committees undertaking the investigation served subpoenas seeking documents and testimony deemed vital to the inquiry from various Executive Branch agencies and offices, and current and former officials. In response, without lawful cause or excuse, President Trump directed Executive Branch agencies, offices, and officials not to comply with those subpoenas. President Trump thus interposed the powers of the Presidency against the lawful subpoenas of the House of Representatives, and assumed to himself functions and judgments necessary to the exercise of the 'sole Power of Impeachment' vested by the Constitution in the House of Representatives. In the history of the Republic, no President has ever ordered the complete defiance of an impeachment inquiry or sought to obstruct and impede so comprehensively the ability of the House of Representatives to investigate 'high Crimes and Misdemeanors.'' This abuse of office served to cover up the President's own repeated misconduct and to seize and control the power of impeachment -- and thus to nullify a vital constitutional safeguard vested solely in the House of Representatives.

President Trump spoke Wednseday night from a Michigan venue that was decked out for the holidays, including Christmas trees that had Keep America Great hats as toppers

Supporters roar for President Trump at a rally in Michigan, which was taking place while he was being impeached

Supporters cheer for US President Donald Trump during a Keep America Great Rally at Kellogg Arena

A man dressed as Santa Claus walks around the site for President Trump's Michigan campaign rally, which is Christmas-themed

A man place his hand over his heart - and over the president's large face - for the Pledge of Allegiance at Wednesday night's Trump campaign rally

Fury as Trump hints John Dingell is in hell The widow of late Rep. John Dingell told President Trump he 'brought me down in a way you can never imagine' after he mocked her during a campaign rally and implied that her late husband was in hell. Rep. Debbie Dingell, who succeeded her husband in his Michigan seat, fired back at Trump after he affected her voice and impersonated her during a campaign rally. Trump fumed about how Dingell voted to impeach him even though he authorized funeral proceedings for Dingell, whose body lay in state at the Capitol. Rep. Debbie Dingell succeeded her husband John Dingell (pictured together in 2011) in his Michigan seat when he died 'Debbie Dingell, that's a real beauty,' Trump noted, recalling how Debbie Dingell had remarked that her husband would be 'thrilled' looking down from heaven. 'Maybe he's looking up!' Trump suggested, earning some groans from the crowd. 'Mr. President, let's set politics aside. My husband earned all his accolades after a lifetime of service,' Debbie Ringell responded last night. 'I'm preparing for the first holiday season without the man I love. You brought me down in a way you can never imagine and your hurtful words just made my healing much harder.'

Earlier, as the crowd waited for Trump to arrive, Vice President Mike Pence served as his opening act.

'You know what's going on in Washington, D.C. tonight is a disgrace,' Pence told the crowd. 'They're trying to impeach this president because they know they can't defeat this president,' he added.

Pence gave the crowd a laundry list of the administration's accomplishments before bringing back up the impeachment vote.

'Tonight the do-nothing Democrats are voting to impeach our president. But don't worry Michigan, as the president said voters are wise, they see straight through this empty, hollow, dangerous game,' Pence said.

While the House is dealing with impeachment now 'the Republican Senate is going to have their say in January,' Pence pledged.

The vice president said the House impeachment vote will also spell the end of Democrats having a majority in the House.

'Voters will remember in November!' Pence said.

Michigan was one of the crucial Rust Belt states which switched to Trump in 2016 after previously supporting Barack Obama, taking Trump over the finish line in the electoral college.

Trump will likely need to keep Michigan in his column in order to defeat a Democratic contender in 2020. Battle Creek is nicknamed 'Cereal City' because it is where Kellogg's headquarters is based.

The Trump 2020 campaign has experienced a surge in contributions and volunteers during the impeachment inquiry, and aides were hoping to raise an additional $2million ahead of the votes.

The Iowa caucus is now only weeks away and seven of the remaining Democratic candidates will square off on Thursday evening in their latest televised debate.

Joe Biden, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren, Pete Buttigieg, Amy Klobuchar, Andrew Yang and Tom Steyer will appear on stage.

President Trump gave a thumbs up as he left the White House Wednesday as the House debated two articles of impeachment against him

Vice President Mike Pence played the opening act for President Trump in Michigan, minutes away from when he would become the third president to be impeached

The usually chatty President Trump waves goodbye to both a crowd of supporters and a group of reporters who watched his departure from the White House Wednesday

President Trump is photographed walking across the South Lawn. He ignored the droves of reporters waiting for him to comment on impeachment

President Trump waves as he arrives in Michigan for Wednesday night's Christmas-themed campaign rally

A Trump supporter, in a festive Make America Great Again, gives a peace sign to a photographer outside the president's Michigan rally Wednesday

'What a time to be alive!' Lizzo, Elizabeth Banks, Padma Lakshmi and Cher lead the liberal celebrities rejoicing on social media at Trump's impeachment - while Jon Voight hits out at 'evil Democrats'

Within hours of the impeachment vote, a raft of celebrities had taken to social media to sound off on the historic news.

Many of the stars rejoiced at Trump's impeachment, including actor Cole Sprouse who called for a 'celebration' and singer John Legend who urged the Senate to convict Trump and throw him out of office.

Others took a more solemn tone, including Alyssa Milano who said the vote would not 'erase' Trump's actions in office.

Trump also found some celebrity supporters, including Oscar winner Jon Voight who theatrically denounced Democrats as 'evil'.

Lizzo (pictured performing last week) was among celebrities celebrating the impeachment vote against Trump, tweeting: 'What a time to be alive!'

Singer John Legend (left) and actress Alyssa Milano (right) were also among liberal celebrities praising the vote, which will now go to the Senate for a trial

Bella Thorne (left) posted a video of herself reacting to the vote on her Instagram story, while Ireland Basinger also posted the news to her followers (right)

'I expected this moment but I expected to be more joyful. Maybe jump up & do a happy dance. Maybe. But I'm just sad and heartbroken,' Alyssa Milano tweeted

'I expected this moment but I expected to be more joyful. Maybe jump up & do a happy dance. Maybe. But I'm just sad and heartbroken,' Alyssa Milano tweeted.

'What he's left behind can't be erased with this vote. The bigotry and xenophobia he's emboldened. The lies. It will take generations to recover.'

While Milano was one of the few who expressed their worry, the bulk of celebs found themselves celebrating the news.

Singer John Legend, who has previously feuded with the the president, welcomed the news and called for 'this evil man' to be convicted in the Senate.

He tweeted: 'Thank you to the House of Representatives for doing your constitutional duty. Everyone please call your senators and tell them to remove this evil man from office.'

'He wanted to make history,' comedian DL Hughley chimed. 'HE DID!! 1st President EVER to be #IMPEACHED IN HIS 1st TERM!!'

The joke is not entirely accurate, because 17th President Andrew Johnson was impeached during his only term in 1868.

Many celebrities took to their social media to sound off on the historic news of President Trump's impeachment after the House of Representatives voted to impeach him

'He wanted to make history,' comedian DL Hugley chimed. 'HE DID!! 1st President EVER to be #IMPEACHED IN HIS 1st TERM!!'

The sentiment was shared by Cole M. Sprouse, who added: 'Time for a celebration'

'What a time to be alive,' tweeted Jordyn Woods

The pro-impeachment sentiment was shared by Cole M. Sprouse, who added: 'Time for a celebration.'

'What a time to be alive,' tweeted Jordyn Woods, while Amber Tamblyn wrote: 'HAPPY HOLIDAYS, TWITTER.'

Director and Trump critic Rob Reiner,tweeted: 'This President is not being Impeached because he's a liar or immoral or a misogynist or a white nationalist or incompetent or ignorant.

'He's being Impeached because he committed the High Crimes of Abuse of Power & Obstruction of Congress.'

Elizabeth Banks retweeted a link sharing that President Trump was the only President to graduate from Penn and also be impeached.

'HAPPY HOLIDAYS, TWITTER,' cosigned Amber Tamblyn

Elizabeth Banks retweeted a link sharing that President Trump was the only President to graduate from Penn and also be impeached

'Impeached,' Bette Midler tweeted on Wednesday evening

Padma Lakshmi and Jameela Jamil took the moment to share comical gifs expressing their reaction to the impeachment news

Trump did appear to have some celeb friends in his corner, with actor Jon Voight calling Democrats evil in a video on Wednesday night.

'The evil is trying to win. This is a battle for truths, and the left are afraid of the true truths that President Trump has brought forth,' he declared.

'If the impeachment proceeds, America will fall, for President Trump has built it back and the extreme left are destroying this nation's glory.

'This is evil intent to destroy a President who has America in his hands.'

Fellow actor Dean Cain also came to Trump's defense, saying: 'This partisan, political impeachment is an embarrassment.'

Meanwhile, Padma Lakshmi and Jameela Jamil took the moment to share comical gifs expressing their reaction to the impeachment news.

'When people ask why I keep calling out President Trump's lies, crimes & cruelty I say it's my duty as a US Citizen & the best way for this father to protect my daughters future,' Tom Arnold tweeted. 'Quinn Arnold was born four years ago today. Dad made this birthday extra special. #TrumpImpeachment.'

'We have never had a President impeached while out campaigning acting as if nothing is going on back on Capitol Hill,' Maria Shriver tweeted. 'It's fascinating. Now he will run as an impeached President for re-election. Historic. #ImpeachmentDay.'

Singer-songwriter Victoria Monet also welcomed Mr Trump's impeachment, tweeting: 'Getting closer to making this orangesickle disappear man.'

Tom Arnold shared that the impeachment news was a birthday present to his daughter

'We have never had a President impeached while out campaigning acting as if nothing is going on back on Capitol Hill,' Maria Shriver tweeted. 'It's fascinating. Now he will run as an impeached President for re-election. Historic. #ImpeachmentDay'

Several celebs expressed their confusion toward the next steps in the process, with rapper Meek Mill even asking who the next president would be

Several celebs expressed their confusion toward the next steps in the process, with rapper Meek Mill even asking who the next president would be.

Others took to their Instagram to share snaps of their facial reactions when seeing the news, including Bella Thorne.

Many celebrities made reference to Trump's sexual assault allegations and dealing with women.

'This is for all the victims of sexual assault... impeached,' tweeted Natasha Rothwell.

Both Cole Sprouse and Lisa Rinna posted on their Insta story when the impeachment news was announced

'This is for all the victims of sexual assault... impeached,' tweeted Natasha Rothwell

The sentiment was shared by John Cusack, who said: 'He's obsessed with women coming to get him. Pelosi living in his head'

The sentiment was shared by John Cusack, who said: 'He's obsessed with women coming to get him. Pelosi living in his head.'

Still, actors like Josh Gad focused on the importance of voting in the next election.

'Don't gloat. Vote,' he said. '2 much depends on this next election. if u care about having health care with pre-existing conditions, if u care about having a habitable planet, if you care about the rule of law, if you care about lower prescription drugs, if you care about gun violence, vote.'

Still, actors like Josh Gad focused on the importance of voting in the next election

Cher posted a cryptic message slamming Republicans for trying to purge Democratic voters from electoral rolls

'Democracy dies over chips & guac': White House press secretary slams Washington Post after reporter tweeted 'Merry Impeachmas' with a photo of colleagues drinking beer and eating following historic vote

The Washington Post has come under fire from the White House after a member of the newspaper's Congressional team tweeted a photo of correspondents celebrating 'Merry Impeachmas'.

The photo shared on Twitter by reporter Rachel Bade showed her and her colleagues drinking beer at dinner hours after the House of Representatives passed two articles of impeachment against President Donald Trump.

The caption read: 'Merry Impeachmas from the wapo team!' - along with tags for journalists Karoun Demirjian, Paul Kane, Seung Min Kim and Mike DeBonis.

White House Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham shared the tweet and wrote: 'Fair & balanced journalism everyone. Democracy dies over chips & guac.'

Washington Post reporter Rachel Bade tweeted a photo of her at dinner with four colleagues with the caption: 'Merry Impeachmas' after the House impeachment vote Wednesday night

White House Press Secretary Stephanie Grisham slammed the Post over the tweet (file photo)

Brad Parscale, Trump's 2020 campaign manager, also responded to the tweet, writing: 'Ladies & gentlemen, your fair and objective press corps in action! What a joke.'

He added: 'Media needs to stop acting like they are 'impartial'.'

Bade later removed the post after critics accused her of trying to taunt President Trump.

She explained her decision to take it down in another tweet, writing: 'I'm deleting a tweeting tonight that is being misinterpreted by some as an endorsement of some kind.

'To be absolutely clear, we at the Post are merely glad we are getting a break for the holidays after a long 3 months. I will retweet the group photo w/ a better caption !'

The Post has been a frequent target of Trump's wrath, as the president has repeatedly claimed that the paper governed by the interests of its owner, Amazon founder Jeff Bezos.

Bade later removed the post after critics accused her of trying to taunt President Trump