She has been thriving with numerous acting roles and authoring a bestselling book while being one of the top social media influencers in the world.

So it comes as no wonder Bella Throne was in need of some rest and relaxation.

The 22-year-old multihypenate took to Instagram to share several snaps from her relaxing trip in the Dominican Republic with boyfriend Benjamin Mascolo.

Stunning: Bella Thorne took to Instagram to share several snaps from her relaxing trip in the Dominican Republic

Her man: The 22-year-old multihyphenate was joined by boyfriend Benjamin Mascolo who posed in front of a Domincan Republic flag

Bella shared three fresh faced snaps as she reflected on her life while spending time in the gorgeous, picturesque town of Punta Cana.

She wrote: 'I feel good about me, I feel good about where I am, although it seems as I’m always searching for more which I think is a good thing..but at this exact moment in my life I feel like I can stop.

'Just momentarily [heart eyes emoji] I am exactly where I am suppose to be. And I hope you are too...'

'I feel good about me': Bella shared three fresh faced snaps as she reflected on her life while spending time in the gorgeous, picturesque town of Punta Cana

Handsome: She also shared a few images of her 26-year-old musician boyfriend Benjamin looking hunky

She also shared a few images of her 26-year-old musician boyfriend Benjamin looking hunky in front of a Dominican Republic flag.

Bella captioned the gallery: 'R u flippin kidding me ???'

The lovebirds have been dating since April.

She has been keeping active on social media as she documented the trip including snaps of herself in a bikini on Monday.

Quite the show: Bella revealed that her sister Dani set her and Benjamin up with fire dancers

'Sweet little lonely flower,' she wrote on Instagram on Monday, alongside the make-up free images of her in a white bikini top with a flower hanging over one shoulder.

She then told fans: 'Yes I know my boobs are big but also LOOK AT THAT CUTE LONELY FLOWER.'

No doubt the vacation was much needed as she just wrapped her fifth film of the year, and has been busy promoting her poetry book, The Life Of A Wannabe Mogul: Mental Disaray, which retails for $13.49 on Amazon.

Then there is her newly announced deal with the newly formed influencer- brand connector, 10pm curfew.

Gorgeous: She has been keeping active on social media as she documented the trip including snaps of herself in a bikini on Monday

Nature lover: She told fans 'Yes I know my boobs are big but also LOOK AT THAT FLOWER'

Tying together two popular Instagram accounts, Style and Girls, Bella's job is to drive more users to the handles.

'We are excited to announce Bella Thorne is the official face and partner of 10PM Curfew and it’s iconic social channels @Style and @Girls!' the brand announced in a press release, Monday.

'With Bella’s experience in the industry and her mission to empower women through her own platform, we are glad to be able to formulate a strategic partnership through which we can continue to further realize our mission.

Next role: Bella has signed a newly announced deal with the influencer- brand connector, 10pm curfew