Phillip Schofield says it 'won't be a big deal' if Strictly bosses introduce same sex couples after Dancing on Ice did it first.

The host, 57, made clear that ITV focus on the skating ability of their contestants while his co-star Holly Willoughby, 38, insisted that Steps singer Ian 'H' Watkins and pro Matt Evers are not just a 'token pairing.'

Speaking ahead of the Dancing on Ice Christmas special Phil told MailOnline: 'With the same sex couples it's a big deal and whoever does it again, either us or Strictly – it won't be as it should be and it won't be a big deal.'

'It won't be as it should be': Phillip Schofield says it 'won't be a big deal' if Strictly bosses introduce same sex couples after Dancing on Ice did it first (taken this month)

Holly continued: 'That's the really important thing, this isn't just a token pairing, these two are really good.

'It's going to be interesting to watch and it will change the dynamic slightly. Their strengths, their weaknesses, what they can and can't do.'

Phil added: 'We've focussed on the skating and how they work together.'

Last year Holly slammed Gemma Collins for her lack of professionalism on the show after the Essex star was accused of delaying rehearsals by taking a nap.

It was reported at the time that Gemma threatened to quit over Holly's comments that she made on This Morning.

'These two are really good': Holly Willoughby insists Steps singer Ian 'H' Watkins and pro Matt Evers are not just a 'token pairing' and they have every chance of winning the competition

Stunning: The mum-of-three wore a glamorous pink gown for filming of the dance series – after saying it is never her intention as host to offend any of the contestants

And now Holly has said it's never their intention to 'offend anybody' – but there's always a risk with Dancing on Ice being an entertainment show.

She said: 'We never want to go out to offend anybody at all but it's a big show, it's a big entertainment show.

'There's a lot of pantomime involved in it with the judges. This is a really tough thing to do, this is a challenge, make no mistake about it.

'I'm always so impress with anyone that throws their hat into the dancing on ice rink. It is dangerous.'

Phil added: 'I'd be sad if we offended anyone, that's not our style at all.

All smiles: Phil and Holly presented their final This Morning show of the year last week and appeared in happy spirits despite ongoing reports of a feud between the pair

'What we're really excited about is we've got Libby who's sight impaired and there might be someone watching that has a disability who thinks they can't do it but no, you can!'

Holly was close to tears at the Dancing on Ice press launch last week after she reminisced about meeting co-host Phil on the show amid reports of a feud between the presenters.

The mother-of-three looked back at being pregnant throughout the years of fronting the ITV dance series, telling MailOnline: 'Phil and I met on this show. There's a lot of history in this show. My kids really love it as well.

'I get quite emotional thinking about it, that all of them were carried in my tummy on this show and when we finished I always went off and had the babies... Oh my God you're going to set me off!

Dancing on Ice at Christmas is on Sunday 22nd December at 7pm on ITV