Her turn in Lady Macbeth saw her nominated for a BAFTA Rising Star Award.

And as well as winning wide acclaim for the role, Florence Pugh has revealed that the drama helped to boost her confidence, because of the nudity it required.

Florence, who can currently be seen alongside Saoirse Ronan in Little Women, spoke about her meteoric rise to fame and the beginnings of her career in a candid interview with ES Magazine.

Speaking out: Florence Pugh spoke about her meteoric rise to fame and the beginnings of her career in a candid interview with ES Magazine

The 23-year-old actress looked back on her breakout role in the BBC adaptation of the Shakespeare classic as she mused: 'Playing Katherine changed everything.

'I loved the fact she was naked all the time. At that point in my life I had been made to feel s**t about what I looked like and that film was perfect, there was no room for me to feel insecure.'

Florence went on to explain that she had felt eager to please at the beginning of her career, but was able to stay true to herself.

Cheeky! Florence, can currently be seen alongside Saoirse Ronan in Little Women, and revealed that the pair used to have wrestling matches behind the scenes

One to watch: Florence's breakout role came playing Katherine in BBC's Lady Macbeth and she revealed that the film helped to boost her confidence, because of the nudity it required

She revealed: 'When you go out there [LA] as a baby-face, fresh thing who is eager to please, they will make you into whatever they need to make you sell, essentially.

'You need to know exactly what you are representing when you go into meetings so if someone says, "That's really cool you don't pluck your eyebrows,"that you don't f***ing, like, die and whimper.'

She continued: 'No I don't want you to cut my hair. No I don't want you to wax my upper lip. I have a face and hair grows out of it. Please leave me alone.'

Florence can currently be seen along a star-studded cast in the 2019 movie adaptation of Little Women. She plays Beth in the cast, alongside Saoirse as Jo, Emma Watson as Meg.

Eager to please: Florence went on to explain that she had felt eager to please at the beginning of her career, but was able to stay true to herself

One to watch: Florence can be seen along a star-studded cast in the 2019 movie adaptation of Little Women. She plays Beth in the cast, alongside Saoirse Ronan as Jo, Emma Watson as Meg

Discussing the unusual way in which she bonded with her on-screen sisters, Florence revealed that she used to enjoy playful wrestling matches with Saoirse on set.

She recalled: 'Every single scene that Saoirse and I would wrestle in — that was our suggestion. Sometimes she'd be like, "God I really want to hit you."

'And I'd be like, "Me too." And then we'd have a little wrestle and a hug. That was genuine.'

'Every time Saoirse was punching me in the face, it was like, "HA! This feels just like family".'

Her manner around Meryl Streep, who plays Aunt March in the film, was somewhat different, however, as she admitted to freaking out when they met.

‘She was already on set, kind of in character, and I came running down the stairs and I was like, “MERYL!”’ she recalled. ‘And I flung my arms around her.’

Discussing whether she felt any pressure to portray Amy, who has been played by the likes of Kirsten Dunst and Elizabeth Taylor in past productions, she explained: 'Not with Amy.

'She never weighed heavy on my shoulders and I genuinely enjoyed playing every second of her. So I'm never nervous talking about her.'

The full interview appears in this week's issue of ES Magazine, Thursday 19 December.