Advertisement

Severe flooding caused chaos in Britain today as more than 50 properties were deluged in one town and 160 flood alerts and warnings were imposed across the country - with three weeks' worth of rain still to fall by tomorrow.

A 'major incident' was declared in Hayle, Cornwall, after torrential downpours sparked flash flooding - and several feet of brown water could be seen rising against shop doors and windows in the high street.

Four fire engines were pumping out water as council officials urged people to put sandbags out and move any valuables from the floor - and warned motorists to avoid attempting to drive through floodwater. There has also been chaos in Worcester due to the heavy rain, with New Road Cricket Ground flooded for the fifth time this year.

There will be no let up to the wind and rain pounding parts of the UK this week as a low pressure system sweeps across the country, with the severe conditions set to continue over one of the year's busiest travel periods.

The Met Office has warned drivers to beware of flash flooding and standing water with between 2.4in (60mm) and 3.5in (90mm) of rain falling before the end of the week, as well as gusts of up to 70mph in coastal areas.

Flooded: Parts of the A30 in Cornwall was completely flooded on Tuesday making it near impossible to drive down

New Road Cricket Ground in Worcester flooded for the fifth time in 2019 on Tuesday as rain fell across the country

A major incident has been declared in Hayle, Cornwall, after 50 properties in the seaside town were affected by rising water.

Torrential rain sparked flash flooding today in Hayle, Cornwall, which also left large stretches of the main A30 impassable

Four fire engines were pumping out water in Hayle today as Cornwall Council officials urged people to put sandbags out

The worst affected town is Hayle where several feet of water can be seen rising against shop doors and windows today

Meanwhile last-minute online shoppers face a postal nightmare as a perfect storm of icy roads and freezing fog put pre-Christmas deliveries at risk with Britain bracing for further severe weather.

The union Unite, which represents 50,000 lorry drivers including those working for the Royal Mail and major supermarkets, warned customers to be 'patient' as it advises workers to check forecasts ahead of deliveries.

Even more heat records to fall in 2020 Next year is expected to bring more record-breaking heat, forecasters warned yesterday – after Australia endured its hottest day ever. The Met Office said Earth will be about 1.11C above pre-industrial levels in 2020 due to rising greenhouse gases. The hottest years have all come since 2015 when temperatures broke the 1C threshold for the first time. In 2016 they were 1.16C above pre-industrial levels – an all-time high. Records began in 1850. Australia saw its most torrid day on Tuesday, with an average high of 41C (106F), beating a January 2013 record.

The heavy rain has also brought an increased flood risk, with the Environment Agency issuing 151 flood alerts across England as well as 19 more serious flood warnings – mostly in the South and Midlands.

Adrian Jones, Unite national officer for the haulage industry, told the Daily Telegraph: 'We advise drivers to check the weather before they start their route and check periodically to ensure things don't worsen.

'If a driver believes that it would be unsafe to start or continue their route then they have the protection of health-and-safety regulations. We expect bosses to act in the interests of their employees and other road users, not just in the interests of profits.'

The Met Office has issued a rain warning until 12pm tomorrow for most of southern England and South Wales amid fears that homes and business could be flooded, trains could be delayed, and properties could face power cuts.

A spokesman said: 'Several periods of heavy rain are likely from Wednesday afternoon until early Friday.

New Road Cricket Ground is flooded for the fifth time in 2019 in Worcester today, as more weather warnings are in place

Heavy rain in Worcester today, where further weather warnings are in place in the lead up to Christmas next week

A man looks at swans around the River Severn in Worcester which has burst its banks following torrential downpours

The flooded Worcester Racecourse is pictured today following heavy rain in the city, as weather warnings are in place

Swans around the River Severn which has burst its banks today, as heavy rain continues to affect the city of Worcester

The flooded Worcester Racecourse after heavy rain today, as weather warnings are in place in the lead up to Christmas

New Road Cricket Ground has been flooded for the fifth time in 2019 in Worcester today as weather warnings are in place

'30mm (1.2in) to 50mm (2in) of rain is likely to accumulate quite widely during this time, with 60mm (2.4in) to 90mm (3.5in) over some south-facing hills of southwest England and south Wales.

'Some drier periods are likely in between the spells of rain and the longevity of these is uncertain, but the overall accumulation of rain on saturated ground is likely to lead to flooding in places.'

There is then a further rain warning that runs throughout the weekend for southern England, warning of a further 1.2in (30mm) which could fall and cause longer journey times with spray and flooding on roads possible.

The average UK rain for December is 4.7in (120mm). Although the weather has been mild this festive season, Met Office chief meteorologist Paul Gunderson thinks we could see a cold snap just in time for Christmas morning.

Heavy rain is forecast for South West England today (left) before it spreads across other parts of the country (right)

Families will make an estimated 31.2million leisure trips between Tuesday and Christmas Eve – the highest number since 2013

The Environment Agency has issued 175 flood alerts across England as well as 15 more serious flood warnings

Met Office Chief Meteorologist Paul Gundersen said: 'Bands of heavy rain are expected across southern parts of the UK on Thursday, Friday and Saturday.

Three out of four motorists 'would drive through flood water' Nearly three in four (74 per cent) motorists would risk driving through flood water despite the risk of being swept away, a new survey suggests. Just 22 per cent of men said they would turn around and find an alternative route compared with 29 per cent of women, the AA poll of nearly 18,000 drivers indicated. The breakdown rescue firm and the Environment Agency said the most common cause of death during flooding is people driving through flood water. They warned that just 30cm (11in) of moving water is enough to float a car, leaving drivers at risk of needing to be rescued or getting stranded after their car engine takes in water and stops working. Caroline Douglass, the Environment Agency's director of incident management, said: 'It is concerning that so many drivers are willing to risk their own life and the lives of others by driving through flood water. 'Our message is clear - surface water flooding is often deeper than it looks and just 30cm of flowing water is enough to float your car. Never drive through flood water. Turn around and find another route.'

'With the potential for 60-90mm of rain falling over the course of a few days, it's quite likely we'll see some impacts such as flooding and tricky driving conditions.'

Not everywhere has experienced unseasonably warm weather – Balmoral Castle was picture-perfect after snowfall in the Highlands earlier this week. Parts of Yorkshire and Northumberland were also coated in white.

Motorists also face a week of chaos as the great Christmas rush gets under way. Families will make an estimated 31.2million leisure trips between Tuesday and Christmas Eve – the highest number since 2013, according to the RAC.

They will battle for space with commuters, while bad weather and rail disruption are expected to heap even more pressure on roads.

According to an RAC survey, some 5.6million of the UK's drivers were planning to make a leisure trip yesterday – more than the 4.7million planning to set off on the traditionally busy 'frantic Friday' before Christmas.

Drivers on the northbound M1 from Flitwick to Daventry are expected to endure 97-minute queues, transport firm Inrix said. And on the M25 clockwise, between junctions for the M23 and M40, drivers could face 58-minute waits.

The RAC's Ben Aldous said: 'Unfortunately, when you add in the prospect of unsettled weather, with heavy rain and strong winds in some parts, these are likely to be pretty unpleasant drives for many of us.'