Victoria's Secret model Kelly Gale was back in the gym on Wednesday, once again perfecting her already incredible figure.

But the 24-year-old almost suffered from a wardrobe malfunction as she struggled to contain her ample assets in revealing activewear.

Taking to Instagram, Kelly showed herself hard at work while clad in a very tight red crop top.

Careful, Kelly! Victoria's Secret model Gale struggled to contain her ample assets in a red crop top as she did a full body sweat session at the gym on Wednesday

The Australian-Swedish beauty teamed the very revealing attire with a more modest pair of black tracksuit pants.

Kelly worked a number of muscle groups during the sweat session, starting with sit-ups with a resistance band to tone her abs.

Oh my! The model felt the burn as she worked her obliques while doing a series of side crunches

The runway star then moved on to toning her biceps and triceps, using resistance bands against a exercise machine.

Ensuring her workout was intense, Kelly also had a resistance band around her lower legs to work her calves simultaneously.

She showed her discipline in the gym, revealing she does three steps on each side and three to five rounds of the challenging exercise.

Work those arms! The runway star then moved on to toning her biceps and triceps, using resistance bands against a exercise machine

The model continued to feel the burn as she worked her obliques while doing a series of side crunches.

However, she didn't stop there, then using a fitness ball to engage her core while doing a series of planks.

Kelly finished off strong by moving a foam brick on and off her back, working her legs and glutes.

Fit! Kelly (pictured) also used a fitness ball to engage her core

Explaining the workout, Kelly captioned the clips: 'Full body workout with focus on Abs/Core,' she added: 'engage your core the whole time and you'll feel the burn.'

A regular in the highly-coveted Victoria's Secret runway show, Kelly is known for her commitment to health and fitness.

The model revealed her diet and exercise secrets in an interview with V Magazine in December last year.

Gruelling: She finished off strong, moving a foam brick on and off her back, working her legs and glutes

The stunner consumes a diet of 'fresh, organic produce' including vegetables, nuts, seafood and raw vegan dark chocolate.

'[I eat] superfoods every day such as chlorella and spirulina, and if I ever need an immune booster I have tons of ginger, turmeric and baobab,' she added.

Kelly has walked the runway for Victoria's Secret an impressive five times. She is currently in a relationship with Swedish actor, Joel Kinnaman.