It was once known as 'the world's favourite airline'.

But British Airways is now one of the worst, according to thousands of holidaymakers.

The nation's flag carrier was criticised for uncomfortable seats and poor meals in a poll by Which?

It marks a dramatic fall from grace for the airline, which in 2015 was voted the best short-haul option in the same survey.

The poll of more than 6,500 travellers has seen BA hit third-from-bottom for short-haul travel. It is second-worst for long haul.

British Airways is now one of the worst airlines according to thousands of UK holidaymakers

It comes at the end of a dismal year for the company due to IT glitches, strikes and cancellations. Last month, an IT meltdown caused delays of up to 24 hours. There were similarly severe systems failures in 2017.

This year's chaos came 12 months after hackers stole the data of half a million BA customers in a breach which led to a £183million fine.

Consumer champion Which? asked passengers to describe service, boarding and cabin environment on flights.

Overall, BA suffered a customer satisfaction score of 55 per cent.

THE TOP AND BOTTOM THREE CARRIERS IN THE WHICH? AIRLINE SURVEY - SHORT AND LONG HAUL SHORT HAUL Top Aurigny – 82% Jet2 – 79% SAS Scandinavian Airlines - 74% Aer Lingus - 71% Swiss - 71% Bottom Tui - 59% Whizz - 56% British Airways - 55% Vueling Airlines - 54% Ryanair – 44% (worst overall) LONG HAUL Top Singapore Airlines – 88% (best overall) Qatar Airways – 79% Emirates - 76% Virgin Atlantic - 72% KLM - 69% Bottom United Airlines - 62% Air Canada - 60% Etihad Airways - 56% British Airways – 55% American Airlines – 48% Source: Which?

For the fourth year Ryanair was voted worst overall airline in the Which? survey, with just a 44 per cent customer satisfaction rate

BA said: 'Our own data shows customer satisfaction scores have increased as we deliver our £6.5billion investment for customers on new aircraft, new food, new lounges and new technology.'

For the fourth year Ryanair was voted worst overall, at 44 per cent. Passengers accused the budget carrier of treating them like 'cash cows in cattle class'cabins.

By contrast, British airline Jet2 scored 79 per cent. Flyers described service as 'friendly' and 'efficient'. It was second only to Channel Islands airline Aurigny.

American Airlines was voted the worst long-haul carrier, scoring 48 per cent. One passenger said: 'The cabin was scruffy, the staff rude, the food awful.'

Virgin Atlantic was at 72 per cent and was voted best for flying from the UK to the US.

American Airlines was voted the worst long-haul carrier, scoring 48 per cen

BA was criticised for uncomfortable seats and poor meals in the poll by Which?. File image used

Frequent flyers with British Airways were this week relieved that the airline's pilots have voted to accept a pay deal to prevent a second walk out.

Members of the British Airline Pilots' Association voted by nearly nine to one to accept the pay deal.

IT DATA BREACH SET TO COST BA BILLIONS Earlier this year British Airways was accused of trying to limit a potential £3billion payout over a data breach that saw cyber-hackers steal more than 500,000 customers' details. Some 185,000 customers had their details compromised between April and July last year, and a further 380,000 were hit by the breach between August and September. Victims could receive as much as £16,000 each in cases where psychological injury is extreme, while average compensation payments for distress could reach £6,000. The stolen data included login details, bank card details, and travel booking information - plus names and addresses. Hackers even managed to get their hands on the three-digit security code on the back of customers' bank cards. The cyber attack - known in the industry as 'pharming' - remained undetected by BA for several months.

The two parties last month reached a preliminary deal over pay and conditions, which had to be approved by the union's 4,000 British Airways (BA) pilots.

Pilots at the airline went on strike for 48 hours in September, grounding 1,700 flights. BA said that the strikes had cost it £110 million.

BA said: 'We welcome this news, which is a good result for our customers, our people, and our business.'

Last month, the airline faced criticism after hundreds of flights were delayed due to a 'technical issue'.

Aircraft around the world were grounded for several hours due to the glitch.

Some 97 flights to and from Heathrow were more than 45 minutes late, and two were cancelled.

A further 17 Gatwick flights were also delayed by the same length of time.

The airline has suffered a series of systems failures in recent months.

In August, an IT glitch caused the cancellation of more than 100 flights and disrupted the travel plans of tens of thousands of passengers.

According to the airline's most recent financial statements, its owner International Consolidated Airlines Group (IAG) has scaled back its forecasts for airline capacity over the next three years as it posted a rise in passenger numbers last month.

The airline giant reduced its forecasts for expected growth in available seats per kilometre to 3.4 per cent for the years from 2019 to 2023, from its previous prediction of 6 per cent.

IAG also reduced its forecasts for growth in earnings per share to 10 per cent from 12 per cent due to lower planned capacity growth.

However, it held firm on long-term profit margin forecasts as it said it still expects to deliver an operating profit margin of between 12 per cent and 15 per cent for the next three years.

Long list of failures: BA's painful history of IT glitches British Airways rolled out a 'cost effective' IT system in October 2015. But since its launch, the system has caused a host of problems costing the company more than £100 million. Workers say it crashes 'all the time' and check-in staff are regularly reduced to tears by its glitches. - The new BA 'FLY' system first broke down on June 19 2015, just weeks after first being introduced. - The system then suffered another failure on July 7, 2016. Two-hour, seven-lane queues formed at all BA check-in gates at Terminal 5 at London Heathrow. - Less than a week later and the check-in system broke down yet again. On July 13, lengthy queues formed once again at Terminal 5, Heathrow, after the 'FLY' system suffered further technical problems - Five days later it broke down once again and on this occasion TV presenter Phillip Schofield was among those to berate the airline for the delays. The IT glitch also hit Gatwick and caused huge queues as hundreds of thousands of families start going away for their summer holidays. Long queues snaked across terminal buildings as irate passengers said BA workers were nowhere to be seen or 'pretending to be on the phone'. - In May 2017 an IT engineer allegedly failed to follow proper procedure at a Heathrow data centre and caused 'catastrophic physical damage' to servers leaving 75,000 stranded across the globe. The outage lasted just 15 minutes but it stopped online check-in, grounded planes and broke baggage systems and meant BA was unable to resume a full schedule for four days. More than 670 flights were cancelled, costing the company £80 million. - There were seven BA system failures in total in 2017. Crashes on June 19, July 7, July 13, July 18 and again on August 2, meant huge delays and cancellations for its customers. - In 2018 furious passengers blasted BA after airline cancels tickets to the Middle East they bought months ago saying fliers should have realised the £167-return deals were a glitch. - In July 2019 British Airways was told it will have to pay a record £183million fine for a data breach that saw card details of more than 380,000 customers stolen from its website and app. - Days later holidaymakers headed overseas for their summer break had to leave their bags behind at Heathrow Airport following problems with luggage handling systems. Passengers including former comedian Eddie Izzard tweeted their frustration and posted pictures of cases piling up in the luggage hall. - In August 2019 A British Airways' IT meltdown caused 12 hours of chaos for 20,000 stranded passengers. The airline was branded 'pathetic' after customers at Heathrow, Gatwick, London City, Manchester, Edinburgh and Newcastle airports were told to 'go home' and reschedule after its check-in system collapsed. The IT crash at 4.30am - the third in as many weeks - led to 127 cancellations and another 300 delays.

Flying and serving for 100 years: Photos from Churchill's first trans-Atlantic flight to royal high-fliers revealed as BA opens its photo vaults to mark its centenary

A wonderful selection of previously-unseen photographs showcasing the Royal Family jetting around the world in the early days of commercial plane travel were released by British Airways for its centenary earlier this year.

The pictures, which show the Queen visiting Portugal, East Africa and Bermuda in the 1950s, were taken in the so-called 'golden age of plane travel' when the transport method was still relatively novel and expensive.

Other archive photographs show the Queen visiting Malta in the 1960s and China in the 1980s, and Princess Diana opening London Heathrow Airport's Terminal Four in 1986, which was built at a cost of £200million.

To mark BA's centenary, it has opened up its archive to the public for the first time to share never-before-seen memories of key moments from its history, including Winston Churchill's first trans-Atlantic flight in 1942.

The collection showcases hundreds of historical photos and videos, as well as articles explaining how British Airways evolved from a single-engine De Havilland aircraft to become known as 'the World's Favourite Airline' in the 1990s.

There are close-up photographs of uniforms worn by generations of cabin crew and pilots, behind-the-scenes memorabilia from royal and olympic flights, and artefacts from Concorde - the most famous aircraft of all time.

The Queen, then Princess Elizabeth, names an Avro Tudor aircraft Elizabeth of England by pouring English cider onto its nose in 1947. However, despite the fanfare, it was to never enter service with the British Overseas Airways Corporation and shortly afterwards, BOAC cancelled their order

Princess Elizabeth meeting BOAC staff at the naming of Avro Tudor Elizabeth of England (left). A royal document discussing the naming of BOAC aircraft Avro Tudor as Elizabeth of England (right). The letter was sent a few months before the plane was christened by the then-Princess

The Queen Mother and Princess Margaret on their tour of East Africa on a BOAC Comet in 1956. The de Havilland DH 106 Comet was the world's first commercial jet airliner. Developed and manufactured by de Havilland at its Hatfield Aerodrome in Hertfordshire, United Kingdom, the Comet 1 prototype first flew in 1949

Princess Elizabeth and Prince Philip leaving for Canada on her first ever transatlantic flight on October 8 1951 (left). Her Majesty The Queen stopping in Bermuda during her first visit to the Commonwealth after her coronation - flying on a BOAC Stratocruiser in 1953 (right)

The Queen arriving in Portugal in 1957. She was joined by the Duke of Edinburgh for the trip. They attended a banquet with the British Ambassador to Portugal at the Palace of Queluz in Lisbon, and it was followed by a Gala Performance at the São Carlos National Theatre

This was the first transatlantic flight taken by a world leader as Winston Churchill takes a BA flight in January 1942. His impulsive decision to fly from Bermuda back to Britain was viewed as potentially perilous. The Prime Minister had visited the island for a secret 24-hour stop-over and addressed the House of Assembly, expressing his gratitude to Bermuda for allowing the construction of US military bases the previous year

Her Majesty The Queen on Concorde in 1977. The Concorde was a French-British turbojet-powered supersonic passenger airliner that was operated from 1976 until 2003. It had a maximum speed over twice the speed of sound at Mach 2.04, with seating for 92 to 128 passengers and is perhaps the most famous plane ever

The Queen and Prince Philip arriving on a state visit to Japan in May 1975. She was the first reigning British monarch to visit Japan. The royals arrived on May 7 and went through a round of tours and state dinners before flying to Kyoto and touring western Japan. They returned to Tokyo only a few hours before their departure - on a British Airways DC8

Her Majesty The Queen departing on her 1st state visit to China on a British Airways Lockheed TriStar in October 1986. Lockheed's Tristar has a long and complicated history with BA. The British Airways Board was formed in April 1972 and almost immediately ordered 6 L-1011 Tristars for BEA's trunk European routes. The first Tristars arrived in late 1974, but their service entry was delayed until January 1975 by industrial problems

Prince Charles and Princess Diana opening Heathrow Terminal 4 on April 1, 1986. Built at a cost of £200 million, Terminal 4 it was used mainly by British Airways until 2008. It became the Heathrow base for airlines of the SkyTeam airline alliance after British Airways vacated on October 29, 2009 and moved to Terminal 5

Prince Philip's first flight on BEA from Heathrow to Malta. The Queen and Prince Philip are known to have enjoyed their younger years in Malta. Previously the Queen has described her time in the country in the late 1940s and early 1950s as 'the happiest days of my life'. Prince Philip was stationed on the island as a naval officer

Prince William meets BA ambassadors at an exhibition in Shanghai. He is also featured in the collection alongside a range of other royals as the British airline celebrates its centenary this year by revealing archived photos for the first time

Pictured is an Imperial Airways HP42 G-AAXF Helena in 1931. The H.P.42 and H.P.45 were British four-engine biplane airliners designed by Handley Page in Hertfordshire. The H.P.42/45 were the land-based backbones of Imperial Airways. Eight were built. Three of the survivors were pressed into Royal Air Force service at the outbreak of the Second World War. By 1940, all the aircraft had been destroyed. Imperial Airways would later merge with the BOAC

Pictured is an Imperial Airways Armstrong Whitworth Argosy G-EBLF City of Glasgow over Croydon in 1926. The Armstrong Whitworth Argosy was a British three-engine biplane airliner built by Armstrong Whitworth Aircraft, and operated by Imperial Airways from 1926 to 1935. The Argosy was initially used on European routes, later operating on services to South Africa, with the fleet named after cities. The craft pictured is named after Glasgow

Pictured is the BOAC De Havilland DH106 Comet 4 G-APDR in 1958. The de Havilland DH 106 Comet was the world's first commercial jet airliner and developed and manufactured in Hertfordshire, United Kingdom. The Comet 1 prototype first flew in 1949. For the era, it offered a relatively quiet, comfortable passenger cabin and was commercially promising at its debut in 1952. A year later, however, problems started to emerge, with three Comets lost within twelve months in highly publicised accidents

The British Airways Centenary Archive Collection explores moments from the very first international flight with its predecessor airline, Aircraft Transport and Travel Limited (AT&T) on August 25, 1919 carrying a journalist, Devonshire cream, leather and several brace of grouse, to the latest images of its brand-new Club Suite

The centenary archive will be hosted on the airline's dedicated Centenary site and will showcase some of the most incredible snaps that British Airways has in its collection, including this breathtaking shot

To mark British Airways' centenary this year, the airline has opened its archive collection to the public for the first time to share never-before-seen memories of key moments from its 100-year history

Alex Cruz, British Airways' Chairman and CEO, said: 'Air travel has always been about connecting people around the world, and this website will share the stories, achievements and memories of 100 years of British Airways history.'

Imperial Airways Short S23 flying boat G-ADUV Cambriain 1938. The Short Empire was a medium-range four-engined monoplane flying boat, designed and developed by Short Brothers during the 1930s to meet the requirements of the growing commercial airline sector

Pictured is a BOAC Boeing 747-136 G-AWNB. BOAC first operated Boeing 747-136 flights from London to New York JFK in April 1971. BA subsequently ordered Boeing 747-236 and 747-436 aircraft, and they were delivered up to 1999. BA, with BOAC, British Airtours and British Caledonian, operated over 100 Boeing 747 aircraft in total, with a peak of 81 aircraft in service by the late 1990s

One of the early Lockheed airliners was L-049 NC90604, ordered by the US Army Air Force during World War II but sold to the BOAC after the war as G-AHEL Bangor. This plane later served Capital Airlines, Trans-European Airways and other operators until she was scrapped in Shannon, Ireland in 1968

British Overseas Airways Corporation was the British state-owned airline created in 1939 by the merger of Imperial Airways and British Airways Ltd. It continued operating overseas services throughout World War II. After the passing of the Civil Aviation Act 1946, European and South American services passed to two further state-owned airlines, British European Airways (BEA) and British South American Airways (BSAA). A 1971 Act of Parliament merged BOAC and BEA, forming today's British Airways

Pictured is the BOAC Douglas DC-7. A transport aircraft, it was built by the Douglas Aircraft Company from 1953 to 1958. It was the last major piston engine-powered transport made by Douglas, being developed shortly after the earliest jet airliner—the de Havilland Comet

BEA Hawker Siddeley Trident 1. The Trident emerged in response to a call by the state-owned British European Airways Corporation (BEA) for a jet airliner for its West European routes. BEA had been asked by the government to issue this call despite its unwillingness to buy a large jet fleet

Then Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain arrives in a Lockheed 14 G-AFGN before delivering his infamous Peace in our Time Speech. In it, he spoke about the Munich Agreement, and said that he German Chancellor Adolf Hitler had agreed not to go to war with one another. Less than a year after the agreement, declarations of war on Germany by France and the United Kingdom were made

AT&T De Havillland DH4a G-EAJC at Hounslow Heath in September 1919. British Airways can trace its origins back to the first Air Transport & Travel Ltd flight - from London to Paris - on August 25 1919. The aircraft, powered by a single Rolls-Royce engine, flew from Hounslow Heath in west London to Le Bourget in Paris in two hours 30 minutes

A BOAC paperdress which was worn on routes to the Caribbean. It is a fascinating insight into the history of British Airways and is one of several uniforms and clothing items unveiled in the centenary archive photo collection

Pictured is a BEA Paris stand in Northolt in the 1940s. A short-and medium-haul British flag carrier, BEA was organised into two divisions based at Northolt and Liverpool Speke , with the former responsible for all scheduled services to the Continent and the latter for all scheduled services within the British Isles