Paula Patton stopped by AOL Build in New York City to discuss her exciting, new television projects.

The actress opened up about her BET+ original movie Sacrifice, where she played an entertainment lawyer with a bad-girl reputation whose famous clientele is under attack - with someone close to her may that just may be behind it.

There the 44-year old also beamed over news of her recent endeavor to bring the story of jazz singer, Josephine Baker, to the small screen.

On the job! Paula Patton stopped by AOL Build in New York City to discuss various projects including her new BET+ original movie, Sacrifice on Wednesday morning

Josephine to the screen: Patton optioned the rights to tell famous jazz singer, Josephine Baker's story

Patton looked stunning in a high ponytail that drew attention to her fresh faced makeup look as she arrived to her interview.

Paula rocked a thigh-length dress decorated in polka dots, paired with opaque black tights, and some retro 60's style ankle boots.

Before entering the AOL Build studio, the Mission Impossible actress beamed for the shutterbugs waiting to capture a glimpse of her before her anticipated interview.

Candid camera: Before entering the AOL Build studio, the Mission Impossible actress beamed for the shutterbugs waiting to capture of glimpse of her before her anticipated interview

Girl power: In her interview with AOL, Patton discussed the theme of female independence in her BET+ original movie, Sacrifice

In her interview with AOL, Patton discussed the theme of female independence in her BET+ original movie, Sacrifice.

The Two Guns actress explained that it's 'fun' for women to see women in more dominant roles in film.

But she urged these same women to take that dominance they see on screen with her character Daniella Hernandez and apply it in their own lives.

The film follows the intense life of a bad-girl entertainment lawyer, Daniella Hernandez, who is a master at cleaning up other people's messes.

But when her clients become the messes themselves, Hernandez is forced to question those around her - both personally and professionally.

The film premieres December 19th on the network's new streaming service, BET+.

Hot shot: The film follows the intense existence of a bad-girl entertainment lawyer, Daniella Hernandez (played by Patton), who is a master at cleaning up other people's messes

It was announced Monday that the ex to Robin Thicke optioned the rights to jazz singer Josephine Baker's life story, per Deadline.

Specifically, Patton obtained the television and film rights to the biographical novel, Josephine Baker's Last Dance by Sherry Jones, which documents the jazz singers extraordinary journey in the music biz.

In her interview with Build, Paula explained that Josephine has always been a fascination of hers and that she wants to turn Baker's story into a 'ten part mini-series.'

Woman to woman: Paula urged these same women to take that dominance they see on screen in her character Daniella Hernandez, and apply it in their real lives

Own it: It was announced Monday that the ex to Patton optioned the rights to jazz singer Josephine Baker's life story

She elaborated by dissecting Baker's personal evolution from a sensationalized caricature to a down-to-earth humanitarian.

'[Baker] changed...she gave her soul to humanity' Patton expressed fondly.

Paula made sure to emphasize that the audience would not be deprived of 'all the glamour' that the jazz singer's life offered during her career.

But she promised that viewers will be most inspired by 'the heart of the woman.'