Australian reality stars and celebrities are making extra cash by selling personal video messages and shout-outs to fans on interactive website Cameo.

While A-list stars like Caitlyn Jenner are commanding $2,500 per video, messages from local Married At First Sight and The Bachelor contestants aren't quite so pricey.

Bachelor In Paradise's Jules Bourne is currently the cheapest Australian on Cameo.

How low will they go? Australian reality stars are making extra cash by selling personal video messages and shout-outs to fans on website Cameo. Pictured: Bachelorette's Jules Bourne

Jules, who found fame on Ali Oetjen's season of The Bachelorette before appearing in Paradise, is selling video messages for just $4.20 each.

'I wanted to make it as hilariously affordable as possible,' Jules said on his profile.

'This is a place for you to get a shout-out for your grandma, for your mum on Mother's Day or for a friend. Stick around for the ride.'

The Bachelorette stars Nathan Favro and Jackson Garlick have also opted for more affordable fees, selling their video messages for as little as $10 each.

'Hilariously affordable': Bachelor In Paradise's Jules Bourne (pictured) is currently the cheapest Australian on the website, selling video messages for just $4.20

Budget: The Bachelorette stars Nathan Favro (left) and Jackson Garlick (right) have also opted for more affordable fees, selling their videos for as little as $10 each

Cyrell Paule doesn't just promise to give you a shout-out for $25, but she will sing too.

On her Cameo profile, the pregnant star belted out a remixed version of Shania Twain's From This Moment On with Happy Birthday To You.

'Guys if you're really invested in my singing, like I am, make sure you hit me up on Cameo. Whether it's your birthday, wedding day or you just need some general love advice, I'm now available,' Cyrell said, while advertising her profile.

Other MAFS stars on the platform include Dean Wells at $25, Melissa Walsh at $15 and Mike Gunner at $20.

Cyrell's boyfriend and Love Island Australia star Eden Dally is on the site at $20.

What a deal! Married At First Sight's Cyrell Paule (pictured) doesn't just promise to give you a shout-out for $25, but will sing a song in the video too

Worth the money? Other MAFS stars on the platform include Dean Wells at $25 (left) and Melissa Walsh (right) at $15

Justin Lacko, who starred on the first season of Love Island Australia, before appearing on I'm A Celebrity in January, is asking for $50 a video.

'I'm really excited to be on Cameo and to be able to give you all a little special something, a shout-out, to cheer you guys up for the day,' Justin said on his page.

Other reality stars on the website include The Bachelor's Vakoo Kauapirura at $15, Monique Morley at $25 and Florence Alexandria at $50.

Bill Goldsmith is charging $50 a video, and Tim Robards has set his price at $45.

Some of the celebrities, such as Tim Robards and Jackson Garlick, have listed their fees to go to a charity of their choice.

'A little special something to cheer you guys up': Justin Lacko, who starred on the first season of Love Island Australia, is asking for $50 a video

Pricey! Bill Goldsmith (left) is charging $50, and Tim Robards (right) has set his price at $45