More than 100 extra paramedics will be on duty as the NSW government declares a state of emergency over bushfire risk and soaring temperatures, with people urged to be vigilant about their health.

The air quality was rated hazardous, very poor or poor in many parts of the state on Thursday as the mercury rose and several bushfires were raised to an emergency level.

NSW Ambulance chief executive Dominic Morgan said they expected to respond to "some quite remarkable conditions" over the next seven days.

There has already been a 10 per cent increase in calls for patients with respiratory conditions over the past week as bushfires cause smoke inundation.

"This is a group of people who really need to be very vigilant; it can be a life-threatening condition," Dr Morgan told reporters in Sydney.

"Just this morning I became aware of a three-year-old who had such a severe asthma attack that they were unable to speak."

He said an additional 187 paramedics would be rostered on throughout Thursday.

Health Minister Brad Hazzard said there had been 38 days of very poor air quality in Sydney since the beginning of November, 28 of which hazardous.

Hospitals have seen a 20-to-30 per cent increase in people presenting to emergency departments with asthma or breathing problems over the past month, NSW Health environmental health director Richard Broome said.

"Today it's extremely smoky, air quality's hazardous across much if not all of Sydney, it's also extremely hot," Dr Broome told reporters on Thursday.

"It's a day that is risky, particularly for people who have chronic conditions."

NSW chief health officer Kerry Chant said the most effective safety measure was to stay indoors, while the Australian Medical Association recommended people keep hydrated, cool and out of the sun in high temperatures.

The Bureau of Meteorology expects most of inland NSW will see temperatures in the mid 40s on Thursday, while areas west of the Sydney CBD are expected to top 41C.

Dr Morgan said anyone in a "vulnerable group" such as the elderly or very young needed a plan to cope with the heat.

"The effects of heat exhaustion and heat stroke can be a life-threatening medical condition," he said.

Signs of heat exhaustion include dizziness and confusion, headaches, appetite loss, excessive sweating, leg, stomach and arm cramps and intense thirst.