James Middleton’s spaniel, Ella, helped him find love when she bounded over to Alizee Thevenet, who went on to be his fiancee.

Now, Ella’s helping the Duchess of Cambridge’s brother spread a little festive cheer.

Dressed as an elf, James took his dog to visit the Royal Manchester Children’s Hospital this week for charity Pets As Therapy.

‘It was moving to see how much it meant to the amazing nurses and doctors at the RMCH,’ James says.

‘They were so delighted to be able to take a moment out of the intensity of the hospital environment to give Ella a tummy tickle.’

Dressed as an elf, James took his dog to visit the Royal Manchester Children’s Hospital this week for charity Pets As Therapy

James Middleton’s spaniel, Ella, helped him find love when she bounded over to Alizee Thevenet, who went on to be his fiancee

Chris Evans wins Green Belt fight for £15m flats

Ding dong merrily on high, the Chris Evans cash tills are ringing. For I can disclose that the irrepressible Virgin radio breakfast show host, who earns £2 million a year, is on the verge of concluding a lucrative property deal.

He has just won permission to replace one of his Surrey properties — an eight-bedroom pile called Beechgrove — with 14 new apartments. Beechgrove’s last recorded sale price was in 1996 for £851,000.

The development, with swimming pool and tennis court set in nine acres of Green Belt land less than a mile from Ascot’s racecourse, promises to yield sackfuls of loot for Evans, 53.

Ding dong merrily on high, the Chris Evans cash tills are ringing

Eight of the flats will have three-bedrooms and are likely to sell for up to £1.2 million apiece, while the remaining six will be priced at around £1 million.

Neither Evans’s spokesman nor Millgate, the developer handling the project, will comment. Perhaps that’s understandable.

Previous plans — proposing 12 flats plus three detached houses — were greeted with howls of disapproval from locals, as I disclosed last year.

The Society for the Protection of Ascot and Environs argued that the proposals would ‘more than triple the volume of vehicle movements along [the nearest lane]’, while Sunninghill and Ascot Parish Council summarised the flats as ‘inappropriate for Green Belt and out of character with surrounding properties’.

This time, however, there was just a solitary objection, perhaps in consequence of the developer’s assurances that the existing brick wall screening the property from the local lane will be retained, along with all mature trees and shrubs.

Evans, who shrewdly retained ownership of Beechgrove when, in 2010, he bought a neighbouring nine-bedroom house for £3.5 million, will be delighted.

Last year, he and his third wife, Natasha Shishmanian, with whom he has four children, were living in a third property, six miles north-east of Ascot.

Since then he has reportedly added yet another residence to his portfolio — a house on the banks of the Thames in Marlow for use as a ‘crash-pad’ after socialising with his chum, TV chef Tom Kerridge.

The latter’s hostelry, The Hand & Flowers, is the only pub with two Michelin stars. Extra helpings of brandy butter all round.

Why it is unusual to see Tom at Tramp

Sir Tom Jones schmoozed with nightclub founder Johnny Gold at Tramp’s 50th anniversary Christmas party

OLD MUCKERS: Sir Tom Jones, right, schmoozed with nightclub founder Johnny Gold at Tramp’s 50th anniversary Christmas party.

ABSENT FRIENDS: No sign of sweaty Prince Andrew but his friend Fiona Sangster was there with husband Guy, son of late racing tycoon Robert Sangster.

Prince Andrew went to Guy’s 40th birthday party at the club and was allegedly spotted on another occasion dancing there with 17-year-old Virginia Roberts.

CONFESSION: Sir Tom, 79, says he prefers to have nights in these days. ‘I used to really enjoy my nights here at Tramp,’ he told me.

‘But I do enjoy my eight hours of sleep a night and my late-night television.’

WEDDING BELLS? Rolling Stone Ronnie Wood’s ex wife Jo does not rule out tying the knot with rugby coach Carl Douglas.

‘We’ll see — it might be third time lucky for me. I let Carl live with me four days a week and I’m hoping we’ll be living together soon full-time.’

Minnie Driver has Xmas in the bag

The Oscar-nominated actress is packaging herself as a tasty offering

Minnie Driver once bagged herself a leading role in Good Will Hunting.

But this Christmas the Oscar-nominated actress is packaging herself as a tasty offering.

‘Well, someone’s getting me, for Christmas,’ she captioned this picture online.

Driver has suffered a string of broken relationships.

She has an 11-year-old son with her ex boyfriend, TV producer Timothy Lea, and recently split up with art curator Neville Wakefield.

But her romantic fortunes changed this September when she got engaged to U.S. filmmaker Addison O’Dea.

Cara splashes out for girlfriend Ashley’s birthday

Talk about a birthday suit. Model Cara Delevingne posted this picture of herself sharing a kiss in the bath with her girlfriend Ashley Benson, who turned 30 this week.

Cara, 27, paid tribute to the Pretty Little Liars star, whom she has been dating for 19 months.

Model Cara Delevingne posted this picture of herself sharing a kiss in the bath with her girlfriend Ashley Benson, who turned 30 this week

‘Happy birthday Ashley,’ said Cara.

‘There is so much I could say but something I love and cherish most about us is that I don’t need to because you know and that’s all that matters. It’s you and me which is my favourite. My safe place. You let me be silly, you let me be wild, you keep me free, secure and curious.’

Sounds like Cara’s bath runneth over...

Cara, 27, paid tribute to the Pretty Little Liars star, whom she has been dating for 19 months. The pair are pictured together above

Spiky Tudor historian Dr David Starkey — asked if the Duke and Duchess of Sussex would ultimately ‘destroy’ the monarchy — replies: ‘I think it very unlikely. It has survived many worse things including the execution of a king. We have not yet recommended that as a way of solving the problem of Harry and Meghan.’

Bake Off winner Nadiya Hussain is a national treasure, but she won’t be cementing her status on another much-loved TV show.

‘I was asked to do Strictly, and I said no,’ reveals the married BBC star.

‘There’s too much physical contact for my liking — and everyone talks about the Strictly curse more than they talk about Strictly.’

James Norton, above, says he can’t resist sneaking his dad on set as an extra in all his productions

Look out for James Norton’s dad in the new BBC drama The Trial Of Christine Keeler.

Norton, who plays Stephen Ward in the forthcoming series, says he can’t resist sneaking his dad on set as an extra in all his productions.

‘He gets to come for a day and it reminds me how special what I do is,’ the actor tells me.

‘My dad’s done it so many times, he’s becoming a bit of a diva. He wants a trailer.’

Norton senior could be enjoying more exotic locales should James be anointed the next 007.