The eagerly-anticipated series has already won itself early critical acclaim.

And as The Witcher prepares to debut on Netflix, Henry Cavill was on hand to promote the series while stepping out for its premiere in Poland on Wednesday.

The actor, 36, was joined by his glamorous leading ladies Anya Chalotra and Freya Allen to attend the screening, held in Warsaw, ahead of The Witcher being released on the streaming service on Friday.

Stepping out: Henry Cavill cut a dapper figure as he joined his glamorous co-stars Anya Chalotra (L) and Freya Allen (R) to attend the premiere of The Witcher in Poland on Wednesday

Henry cut a dapper figure for the affair and was suited and booted in suave, charcoal grey suit and black shirt, unbuttoned at the chest.

He plays the lead role of Geralt of Rivia in the series; a monster hunter known as a Witcher who travels the countryside slaying terrifying beasts.

Speaking about his character previously, Henry told Netflix: 'You are almost universally hated by every species on the continent.

Suited and booted: Henry cut a suave figure for the Netflix screening, held in Warsaw, in a charcoal grey suit and black shirt

Blue steel: The actor, 36, was seen working the camera from all angles on his arrival

'It’s unlikely you’re going to have a cheery personality. But Geralt himself, despite the stony exterior, is actually quite good... but very capable of doing very bad things.'

The Man of Steel star had all eyes on him during his arrival, where he was shortly joined by his co-stars Chalotra and Allen.

They star alongside Henry in the fantasy series, playing the roles of Yennefer and Ciri respectively.

Man of the hour: Henry had all eyes on him at the screening of the fantasy series that sees him take on the role of Geralt of Rivia

Suave: Henry takes on an incredible transformation for the role of Geralt - a monster hunter known as a Witcher who travels the countryside slaying terrifying beasts

Dropping hints: Sharing a taster of what to expect from his character, Henry has previously said: 'You are almost universally hated by every species on the continent'

Anya stunned in an embellished, bandeau floor-length metallic gown that skimmed over her enviable frame.

Choosing to leave her decolletage bare, the beauty wore her dark tresses up in a perfectly styled up-do and completed her red carpet look with minimal yet flawless make-up.

Freya, meanwhile, opted for a sultry, statement black gown that came complete with a sheer top and sequinned detailing down the skirt.

Fan favourite: Henry was seen stopping to take photographs with fans ahead of the screening

Bringing the glamour: Henry was later joined on the carpet by his leading ladies Anya (L) and Freya (R) in their gorgeous floor-length gowns

Leading roles: Anya and Freya play the roles of Yennefer and Ciri respectively and The Witcher examines their intertwining destinies with Henry's Geralt

New release: The Witcher - an eight-episode adaptation of the best-selling medieval book series by Polish author Andrzej Sapkowski, has already received acclaim from critics

She wore her blonde locks down in a sleek and straight style, parted in the middle, and teamed her getup with a slick of rose-tinted gloss, while outlining her eyes with a bronzed hue.

Also in attendance was a sharp-looking Joey Batey, who plays Jaskier on the show, Wilson Radjou-Pujalte, who appears as Dara, and Eamon Farren, who stars as Cahir.

Maciej Musial plays Sir Lazlo and was also in attendance, stepping out in a stylish pinstriped two-piece suit.

Smile: Cosying up together, the actresses appeared in high spirits ahead of the screening

Red carpet glamour: While Anya stunned in a metallic bandeau gown, Freya looked incredible in a dramatically sheer frock

Beautiful: Anya teamed her red carpet attire with a minimal yet flawless make-up look

Stylish: The brunette beauty wore her dark tresses up into a chic up-do

Lauren Schmidt Hissrich, the series' creator, made a stylish appearance while dressed in an all-black ensemble and was joined by the show's executive producers Tomek Baginski and Jason Brown.

The Witcher - an eight-episode adaptation of the best-selling medieval book series by Polish author Andrzej Sapkowski, has already received acclaim from critics, prior to its release on Netflix.

Critics took to Twitter, before they were allowed to publish their official reviews of the series, and seemed to heap praise on the show's first season - especially with regards to the show's awe-inspiring choreography and Cavill's incredible transformations into Geralt.

Stunning: Freya opted to wear her blonde locks down in a sleek and straight style and favoured a rose-tinted gloss across her lips, while outlining her eyes with a bronzed hue

Risky: The beauty oozed confidence as she posed up a storm in her racy red carpet gown

Rubbing shoulders: The leading stars were seen posing alongside show regular Joey Batey, who plays the role of Jaskier in the series

Sweet moment: Henry was seen embracing Joey as they reunited on the red carpet

Revealing their spoiler-free thoughts on the social media platform, one user wrote: 'The Fight Scenes In #Witcher WOW Makes #GameofThrones Fights Look Awful - Watching The Witcher Season 1 This Weekend (sic)'

Another added: 'Oh I will say this. The fight scenes in The Witcher make Game Of Thrones fight scenes look like two drunks fighting outside a bar.'

One critic gushed: 'The fight choreography is insane. First fight Geralt gets into is beautifully savage. The blend of swordplay and Geralt's signs is perfection.'

Cool and collected: Joey looked effortlessly cool for the premiere in an unbuttoned white shirt and navy two-piece suit

Familiar faces: Wilson Radjou-Pujalte, who appears as Dara, and Eamon Farren, who stars as Cahir, were also in attendance

Sharp: Maciej Musial plays Sir Lazlo and was also in attendance, stepping out in a stylish pinstriped two-piece suit

Highly anticipated: The show's executive producers Jason Brown (L) and Tomek Baginski (R) stepped out for the premiere ahead of The Witcher's release on Friday

Chic: Lauren Schmidt Hissrich, the series' creator, definitely had something to smile about as The Witcher has already received early critical acclaim

Going on to discuss Henry, one user joked: 'So... I've never really been thirsty for Henry Cavill. I mean, I get he's handsome but just haven't. I've seen a screener of the first episode of #TheWitcher and, um, I think I'm pregnant.'

The Netflix adaptation of The Witcher will also examine Allen and Chalotra's characters, Princess Ciri and Yennefer of Vengerberg's arcs, as the duo's intertwining destinies with Geralt find them coming together in full force.

It was announced in November that The Witcher has already been renewed for a second season, ahead of its release.

The Witcher will be available on Netflix from Friday 20 December.