The parents of a four-year-old girl who was diagnosed with a rare and incurable genetic brain disorder are racing against time to raise funds for a new treatment to halt the progression of her illness.

Mandy and Jonathan Daddia, from Sydney, were ecstatic to welcome their second daughter Ruby in February 2015.

But as months passed, the couple noticed their baby was developing differently to her sister, missing milestones like crawling, pointing and saying 'Mum' or 'Dad'. Then, on a holiday to Thailand in 2017, she suffered a series of seizures.

In July 2018, the family received the devastating news that Ruby was living with beta-propeller protein-associated neurodegeneration (BPAN), a progressive disorder which damages the brain and nervous system.

Without treatment, Ruby will develop Alzheimer's, dementia and Parkinson's before her early 20s, which will cause vision loss, intellectual disability and ultimately, leave her unable to walk.

'It was very shocking. Of course as a mother, you always think it's your fault,' she told Daily Mail Australia.

Four-year-old Ruby Daddia (pictured) is one of 12 people in Australia living with BPAN, a progressive disorder which damages the brain and nervous system

After years of developmental delays and debilitating seizures, the Daddia family received the devastating diagnosis which will see Ruby develop Alzheimer's, dementia and Parkinson's before her early 20s (pictured clockwise from left: Ruby, four, dad Jonathan, mum Mandy, one-year-old Jamie and Amelia, seven, in 2019)

BPAN was only identified in 2013 by a team of American scientists, which means research into the condition is still in its infancy.

There are roughly 125 people with BPAN worldwide, and 12 known cases in Australia affecting a range of people from toddlers to a 36-year-old woman.

Ruby is the only child in Sydney living with the condition.

Mandy and Jonathan have found support on social media, through a global Facebook group for parents of children with BPAN.

'When she was diagnosed, I was angry, but I'm trying to let that go,' Mandy said.

'We know what her future could look like because we have become friends with other people whose children have BPAN. Most of our information has come from other parents and generally, it's a pretty quick regression.'

But last week, just over 18 months since Ruby's diagnosis, the family were given a lifeline that could slow the progression of her condition.

BPAN: Facts, figures and the Australian perspective Beta-propeller protein-associated neurodegeneration - commonly known as BPAN - is a rare genetic disorder that damages the nervous system. The condition is progressive, which means it gradually gets worse. BPAN causes intellectual disability, seizures and degeneration of the brain due to a build up of iron, which leads to the onset of diseases like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, vision loss and dementia in the early 20s. The condition was only identified in 2013 by a team of American researchers. Worldwide, roughly 125 people have been diagnosed with BPAN, including 12 in Australia. LIVING WITH BPAN Children with BPAN suffer from recurrent seizures, and experience delayed development including significant problems with speech, coordination and movement. The condition also affects the ability to walk and perform fine motor skills, like holding a pen or kitchen utensil. In late adolescence or early adulthood, people with BPAN are likely to experience a gradual loss of intellectual ability that can lead to a severe loss of thinking and reasoning abilities known as dementia. Difficulties with movement also increase, leading to dystonia - a disorder in which a person's muscles contract uncontrollably - and Parkinson's, a progressive condition that causes trembling in the limbs and face, rigidity of the body and difficulty walking. The lifespan of people with BPAN varies. With proper management, individuals can live into middle age. BPAN IN AUSTRALIA In total, there are now 12 known cases of BPAN in Australia, affecting a range of people from toddlers to a 36-year-old woman. Ruby Daddia is the only child in Sydney living with the condition. Source: Murdoch Children's Research Institute

A new research project from the Murdoch Children's Research Institute is investigating potential treatment options for people living with BPAN and other degenerative conditions (Ruby is pictured in 2019)

The cause of BPAN BPAN is caused by mutations or 'spelling mistakes' in the WDR45 gene, which is responsible for clearing unneeded materials from cells, including excess amounts of an iron storage protein called ferritin. As a result, cells are less efficient at clearing damaged cell structures, which build up in the brain causing damage. In terms of genetics, almost all cases of BPAN result in new gene mutations and occur in people with no family history of the disorder. Source: Murdoch Children's Research Institute

The Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Australia's largest child health research organisation, has launched a research project to explore potential treatment options for people living with BPAN and other degenerative conditions.

On Sunday, the Daddia family launched a GoFundMe campaign to support the continuation of the project, which requires an additional $300,000 for years two and three.

'I'm a very private person and this is the first time I've shared Ruby's story,' Mandy said.

'There's obviously enormous vulnerability in sharing her with the world, but I went to the launch of the project last week and the research they're doing looks so hopeful.

'Hearing about it was the first time I've felt hopeful since Ruby was diagnosed.'

By sharing Ruby's story, the family hope to raise the funds needed to continue research for the next three years

Despite the prognosis, Mandy tries to focus on the present and treat Ruby just like her siblings to give her a normal life insofar as possible.

'It was the most unlucky thing that could have happened, and obviously it's very heavy news to process, but given the circumstances, we've dealt well,' she said.

'We try not to think about the regression in the future. We treat her like a regular child.

'She's a very affectionate, smiley little girl who loves to cuddle, loves the ocean and loves to walk - she's been able to do this through a lot of physical therapy.

'Wherever we go, she draws people to her and lights up the room.'