Sophie Monk has responded to claims she could become the next host of Love Island UK.

After former presenter Caroline Flack stepped down from the role on Tuesday due to an assault charge, a range of replacements were suggested by Irish betting company BoyleSports.

Sophie, who is the current host of Love Island Australia, shared the results to her Instagram Stories, and had a laugh at her 11-to-one odds, showing she is very unlikely to be in the running for the coveted role.

She's not going anywhere! Sophie Monk has hilariously responded to claims she could become the next host of Love Island UK. After former presenter Caroline Flack stepped down from the role on Tuesday

'Does 6th place still get an award,' she wrote in the caption.

The rankings saw Irish presenter Laura Whitmore emerge as the front runner to take over the role, with 11-to-eight odds.

Laura is the odds-on favourite to replace Caroline as the host of Love Island after she stepped down as the host of season six on Tuesday following her assault charge.

'Does 6th place still get an award': Sophie, who is the current host of Love Island Australia, shared the results to her Instagram Stories, and had a laugh at her 11-to-one odds, showing she is very unlikely to be in the running for the coveted role

MailOnline can reveal that ITV is gearing up to announce that the Irish presenter host the show, as bosses are 'keen to keep it in the family.'

Laura, 34, is good friends with Caroline, 40, and she is also dating the show's voiceover, Iain Stirling, 31, and she already knows the crew well through Iain.

Moreover, ITV want Laura and Iain to co-present the spin-off show, Aftersun, on Sunday nights as they have a great dynamic, meaning he will get a bigger role.

Caroline stepped down from Love Island after her arrest following a row with boyfriend Lewis at her home.

Next in line: ITV is gearing up to announce Laura Whitmore WILL replace Caroline Flack as presenter... she and voiceover boyfriend Iain Stirling will co-host Aftersun (pictured in November)

The presenter broke her silence on Instagram and wrote: 'There have been a significant number of media reports and allegations in regard to my personal life.

'While matters were not as have been reported I am committed to co-operating with the appropriate authorities and I can't comment further on these matters until the legal process is over.

'However Love Island has been my world for the last five years, it's the best show on telly. In order not to detract attention from the upcoming series I feel the best thing I can do is stand down from Series 6.

'I want to wish the incredible team working on the show a fantastic series in Cape Town.'

Caroline continued: 'And on a really personal level. I have never experienced such kindness and love in my whole life.

Bad day: Caroline stepped down as the host of Love Island UK on Tuesday following her assault charge

'Not just from friends and family who are always the greatest but also from total strangers who send messages to me offering help and understanding... Please know that I see them and my boyfriend Lewis. I love you x.'

An ITV spokesperson told MailOnline shortly after her post: 'ITV has a long standing relationship with Caroline and we understand and accept her decision.

'We will remain in contact with her over the coming months about future series of Love Island.'

A Met Police spokesman told MailOnline last Friday: 'Caroline Flack, 40, of Islington was charged on Friday, 13 December with assault by beating. She will appear on bail at Highbury Corner Magistrates' Court on Monday, 23 December.

'This follows an incident at approximately 05:25hrs on Thursday, 12 December after reports of a man being assaulted. He was not seriously injured.'

The man was treated by paramedics and a London Ambulance Service spokesman said: 'We were called yesterday (Thursday 12 December) at 5.28am to reports of a person unwell in Islington.

'We sent an ambulance to the scene and took a person to hospital.'

Police said he had 'sustained injuries'. The spokesman added: 'Officers attended along with the London Ambulance Service.

'A man sustained injuries, which are not thought to be serious. A woman was arrested at the location on suspicion of actual bodily harm.'

Meanwhile, Sophie's popularity as a host, Love Island Australia has been struggling in the ratings and she could potentially be without job on the series if the series is not renewed next year.

On the mend? Caroline and Lewis are still together, despite the 'private domestic incident' (pictured in November)

A network spokesperson told Daily Mail Australia last month that a 'final decision' on series three still hasn't been made, while The Daily Telegraph reports low ratings could be to blame for the question mark over its future.

'We're not discussing where we're at with series three but FYI Sophie (Monk) featured in a live cross from the Love Island villa at the recent 2020 Upfront (programming launch),' a spokesman told the publication.

They spokesman added to Daily Mail Australia: 'We will make an announcement about the next season of Love Island when we make a final decision.'

The show grasped a modest rating of 494,000 during its premiere on October 7 - but figures dropped to 240,000 by the fourth episode.

In comparison, Channel Ten's The Bachelorette drew in 716,000 viewers for its premiere, when Angie Kent began her hunt for love in October.

Sophie went on to cast doubt that the show being cancelled when she appeared at Nine's 2020 Upfronts via a live cross from the Love Island villa.