Phoebe Burgess has had a rocky year, having recently separated from her former NRL husband Sam Burgess for a second time.

But on Wednesday, the 30-year-old was in high spirits as she joined Karl Stefanovic, 45, and his wife Jasmine Yarbrough, 35, at a Christmas luncheon in Sydney.

Phoebe looked effortlessly chic as she dined at upscale eatery Le Montage with the reinstated Today Show host and his wife.

Who knew they were friends? Phoebe Burgess (left) joined a slew of other stars for a Christmas luncheon at upmarket eatery Le Montage in Sydney on Wednesday (Pictured with former E! host Ksenija Lukich)

The luncheon was a special Christmas affair organised by celebrity agent, Sharon Finnigan. - who manages the guests who attended.

Phoebe, Karl and Jasmine were also joined by outgoing former E! host, Ksenija Lukich, 29.

Phoebe kept to her usual glam style for the outing, wearing an all-white ensemble, which included a high-neck blouse along with a pair of matching white trousers.

The Bowral beauty finished her outfit with a pair of white heels, along with a pair of white-rimmed cat-eye sunglasses.

Glam: Stylish Phoebe opted for an-all white ensemble for the outing, which was organised by celebrity agent Sharon Finnigan

She wore her trademark blonde tresses out. Her makeup was muted, but flawlessly applied for the upscale lunch.

Following the lunch, Phoebe was later seen speaking on her mobile phone as she walked to her Range Rover.

Looking every inch the busy mother of two, she was also seen texting on her phone.

Close! Former E! Entertainment Australia host Ksenija Lukich, 29, hugged Phoebe (R) goodbye after the lunch, with the two women appearing to be friends

Busy! At one point, the mother-of-two was seen texting on her phone

Texting mum? Phoebe was seen out solo, with her regularly being spotted with her supportive mother Sarah Hooke out at engagements lately

Elsewhere, reinstated Today Show host Karl Stefanovic was seen leaving the eatery with his Mara & Mine shoe designer wife, Jasmine.

Karl looked smart in a fitted beige blazer, which he paired with a slightly unbuttoned pale-blue dress shirt.

The breakfast TV show host finished the outfit with a pair of tight black jeans, along with tan boots and a pair of stylish shades.

All style: Phoebe finished her outfit with a pair of white heels and white-rimmed cat eye sunglasses

Another engagement: Phoebe looked busy as she opened the door of her Range Rover

Working! Phoebe later took a phone call on the way to her car

Meanwhile, Jasmine, who is rumoured to be pregnant, covered her frame in a billowing summer frock.

The vibrant dress featured puffy sleeves and cut-out details at the side, with the material cinching in just below her chest.

The shoe designer kept comfortable in a pair of flat white sandals for the occasion.

Jasmine wore her blonde tresses out, allowing the slightly wavy curls to cascade past her shoulders.

Summer siren! Meanwhile, Jasmine, who is rumoured to be pregnant, covered her frame in a billowing orange frock

Meanwhile, former E! host Ksenija flaunted her trim pins in a lace dress with a collar and puffy sleeves.

The brunette beauty finished her outfit with a pair of clear-strapped heels.

While Phoebe was attending the luncheon, her estranged husband Sam was due to front court in Sydney over an alleged intimidation charge against her father.

Sam pleaded not guilty to intimidating his father-in-law - Phoebe's father Mitch Hooke - but will have to wait six months for the case against him to be heard.

The former South Sydney captain was not in Moss Vale Local Court on Wednesday when the case was mentioned but the not guilty plea was entered on his behalf.

The prosecution had sought more time to gather material supporting Mr Hooke's supposed fears of Sam and his 'reasonable grounds' for holding those fears.

Loved up! Karl put a protective arm around Jasmine's shoulder as the couple strolled together

The former Rabbitohs player was allegedly involved in an incident with his father-in-law at Phoebe's family home near Bowral, in the NSW Southern Highlands on October 19.

Sam had visited the property to spend time with his children when Phoebe was not present, but was asked to leave by Mr Hooke following an alleged altercation during which police were called.

At the time, police took out a temporary AVO on behalf of Mr Hooke, which he is banned from approaching or contacting.

Suave: Reinstated Today Show host Karl Stefanovic looked smart in a fitted beige blazer, which he paired with a slightly unbuttoned pale blue dress shirt

While the AVO is in place, Sam is not able to go within one kilometre of his father-in-law nor any place he works.

Following the October 19 incident, Sam was also charged with intimidation. He has denied threatening the 63-year-old businessman.

Phoebe and Sam, who married in December 2015, first separated late last year before rekindling their relationship in April. They split again in October.