Advertisement

Stunning videos show the intense gusts of snow that washed over New York City during the huge snow squall on Wednesday afternoon and wreaked havoc with evening commutes.

The National Weather Service issued a snow squall warning for the New York tri-state area that was in place until 5.30pm.

Time-lapse footage shows the moment that the large swaths of snowfall wash over the city, caking travelers in icy snow.

Scroll down for videos

Quick blast! A snow squall washed over the New York tri-state area on Wednesday evening, impacting roughly 13million commuters

The National Weather Service issued a snow squall warning for the New York tri-state area for until 5.30pm on Wednesday evening

Wow! Bystanders couldn't help but try to film the brief spectacle in Times Square

Approximately 13million people were impacted by the brief and severe weather, with commuters having to dodge unpredictable road conditions.

Interstates 280, 295 and 278 were just some of the highways impacted by the weather.

According to the National Weather Service, Central Park received roughly .4 inches of snow. They added that the snow began at around 4.06pm and lasted until approximately 4.47pm.

A woman pushes a stroller through the windy snow in midtown Manhattan

The NWS explains that snow squalls are intense bursts of snow accompanied by strong gusty winds

The Weather Channel reports that the first-ever snow squall warning for the Big Apple was issued on January 30, 2019. The term is fairly new

The NWS explains that snow squalls are intense bursts of snow accompanied by strong gusty winds.

They typically last less than three hours and occur during the day.

The Weather Channel reports that the first-ever snow squall warning for the Big Apple was issued on January 30, 2019. The term is fairly new.

'#squall must have been the most looked up word today on Long Island,' one user said on Twitter, expressing a common sentiment among users who had not heard of the term before.

Snow squalls are said to often resemble a line of severe thunderstorms sweeping through a localized area quickly.

A delivery worker struggles reading over paperwork as he stands in the snowy conditions

Interstates 280, 295 and 278 were just some of the highways impacted by the brief harsh weather conditions. But streets were also impacted by the harsh weather

According to the National Weather Service, Central Park received roughly .4" of snow