Advertisement

Her wedding preparations may have been overshadowed by her father's disastrous BBC interview and involvement in the Epstein scandal. But that didn't stop Princess Beatrice throwing an official engagement party last night.

Following her appearance at the Queen's Christmas lunch at Buckingham Place, Beatrice and her fiancé Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi, a 34-year-old property entrepreneur, known simply as 'Edo' to his close friends, invited family and friends to the trendy Chiltern Firehouse bar and restaurant in London to celebrate their forthcoming wedding.

While guests at the event last night included other members of the Royal family such as Pippa Middleton, fashion royalty was also in attendance with the editor in chief of British Vogue Edward Enninful, also pictured at the party.

Sources told the Daily Mail that Andrew did not plan to make an appearance because he didn't think it would be a 'good look' at the moment, just weeks after being forced by the Queen to stand down from public life.

It was also reported that he 'feared' guests at the party would face 'abuse or embarrassment' at his attendance.

Last night a source close to Andrew said it had been a 'devastating blow' and was a sign of just how bad relations have become across the family.

They added: 'The plan was always for him to attend Beatrice's party with Fergie. But things have turned more toxic.'

Princess Beatrice, 31, and her property entrepreneur fiance Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi, 34, toasted their upcoming wedding at Chiltern Firehouse in London. Her mother, Sarah Duchess of York, was joined by a host of her A-list pals, including Ellie Goulding (left) with her husband Caspar Jopling, Robbie Williams's wife Ayda Field (centre) and Guy Pelly (right) with his wife Elizabeth Wilson at the trendy bar and restaurant

James Middleton and Alizee Thevenet leave The Chiltern Firehouse looking loved up after attending Princess Beatrice and Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi's engagement party

Mum's the word! Sarah Duchess of York was seen entering the party and wore all black and teamed the ensemble with some military style boots

Pippa Middleton and James Matthews are seen in the back of a taxi last night (left) and Pippa stunned in a dazzling dress (right)

Bride and groom to be: Princess Beatrice is pictured with her Italian fiancé Edoardo Mapelli Mozzi in London earlier this year

Singer James Blunt was pictured in a black cab last night after attending the party. His wife Sofia Wesley smiled as they got into the cab

Celebrities such as film star Robert De Niro (pictured above) were seen slipping out of the party last night at the lavish venue

Starry eyed! Ellie Goulding wore her hair in loose waves last night for the party and she was also wearing some dangling earrings

Strictly star Emma Thynn, Viscountess Weymouth is pictured above smiling as she left the party last night after celebrating the engagement

A casual figure: Dexter Fletcher was pictured wearing trainers and what looked like jogging bottoms outside the party last night

He is also conscious of the ridicule he has received by insisting in his Newsnight appearance that he could not have taken Virginia Roberts, the woman who has accused him of sleeping with her when she was just 17, to London nightclub Tramp as she claims because he wasn't a great partygoer and she is mistaken in claiming he sweated all over her.

Andrew, who denies allegations against him, insists it is physically impossible for him to have done so as he has suffered from a rare condition since serving in the Falklands that leaves him unable to sweat - despite numerous pictures of him coming out of nightclubs and attending parties, all while sweating profusely.

Speaking to The Sun, the source added that Andrew agreed that he didn't want to overshadow the event, especially due to the fact that a lot of high profile people and celebrities were in attendance.

'It could have put them in a difficult position. People close to him were also in fear of embarrassment or abuse which would have been just mortifying'.

Editor in chief of British Vogue Edward Enninful also turned up for the celebrations in a smart navy blue suit

Cosy in the cab! James Middleton and Alizee Thevenet cuddled up in the back of taxi as they made their way home

Actor Dexter Fletcher was seen arriving at London's trendy Chiltern Firehouse for Princess Beatrice's engagement party (left) and Lady Gabriella Windsor and husband Tom Kingston (right)

One of the most famous names at the party was Robert De Niro (pictured above) who tried to cover his face when he first arrived

But while Beatrice's father wasn't there, her mother, Sarah, Duchess of York and sister, Eugenie, were, alongside family friend Robbie Williams and a host of well-wishers.

Buckingham Palace has said it will announce further details of the wedding, which will take place on the new year, over the coming weeks.

But it is likely to be much smaller than a typical wedding, including her sister Eugenie's, both because of her father's issues and the fact that Edo has a young son with his former fiancée.

Punters who tried to book tables at the restaurant last night were told none were available and the bar was closed for a 'private function'.

Andrew was spotted earlier yesterday at the Royal Family's Christmas lunch, hosted by the Queen.

Announcing the engagement in September, Beatrice and her fiance said: 'We are both so excited to be embarking on this life adventure together

'We share so many similar interests and values, and we know that this will stand us in great stead for the years ahead, full of love and happiness.'

Mr Mapelli Mozzi comes from Italian aristocracy and is the son of former alpine skier Count Alessandro Mapelli Mozzi, who competed in the 1972 Olympics for Britain.

His late stepfather, Christopher Shale, was a close friend of David Cameron, the former Conservative prime minister.

Beatrice's wedding to her Italian beau will take place in the new year, with official details soon to be released.

It is likely to be a more understated affair than her sister Eugene's wedding in light of their father's disastrous fall from grace following his car crash Newsnight interview.

He was ordered to step down from royal duties by the Queen after he failed to apologise for his friendship with convicted paedophile Jeffrey Epstein, 66, who killed himself in his New York prison cell this year while on child sex trafficking charges.

Other stars in attendance last night included pop sensation Ellie Goulding who was also pictured arriving at the restaurant, along with actor and director Dexter Fletcher.

This is while Hollywood stars were also in attendance and Robert De Niro was also seen leaving the bash wearing a large black coat and a striped t-shirt underneath.

Celebrations began with dinner with a group of around 30 friends and family in the restaurant where a plate of pasta costs £65.

Laughing and joking! James MIddleton and Alizee Thevenet seemed to enjoy their evening as they headed home in a cab

Sarah Ferguson took on one of the biggest trends of this year when she teamed her black boots with a dress and Chanel bag

Sofia Wesley pictured above was seen getting out of a cab with her husband James Blunt. She was wearing a leopard print coat

Pretty in pink! Ayda Field looked stunning in a flared pink playsuit which highlighted her tiny waist with a chunky belt

Emma Thynn Viscountess Weymouth, who previously starred on Strictly beamed as she sat in the back of the taxi following the star-studded bash last night

Ellie Goulding looked stunning as she stepped out in a velvet dress which featured some stunning buttons down the front

The Chiltern Firehouse is a popular place for celebrities such as singer Rita Ora, Kelly Osbourne, granddaughter of Charlie Chaplin, Kiera Chaplin and former One Direction member Liam Payne, who have all been pictured at the Marylebone venue in the past few months.

Dinner at the exclusive venue will set you back a pretty penny and diners can feast on Special Reserve Caviar which costs £270 for 50g. A three course dinner averages at around £85 for those dining in the private area, and guests are able to add extras including oysters.

The group were allegedly 'rude' to staff and were drinking £125 Ruinart Blanc de Blancs bottles of champagne.

They also drank Gavi and Mr Mapelli Mozzi insisted on ordering Barolo because he wanted an Italian wine.

Gwyneth Paltrow had previously reviewed the venue on her Goop site and said: One of our favorite stops is the bar at the Chiltern Firehouse, which feels almost like spending time in a garden (while being inside). Nearly all the seats and sofas are embellished with colorful florals, and dozens of trailing green plants form a cornice around the room.

Pippa Middleton (pictured above) flashed her huge engagement ring while she pushed her hair behind her ear and carried an umbrella in the other hand

'Afternoon tea is a special treat—a silver tea tray stacked with chocolate and coffee éclairs is presented by the stylishly attired staff. It’s a great place to counteract a midday slump, and for the freelancers out there, to get some work done.'

The venue has a private dining room with the menu focusing on dishes with an 'underlying American accent'. The chef is Michelin-starred chef Nuno Mendes who emphasises healthy eating with his dishes.

A set menu for those dining in the private area costs around £85 per person and does not include drinks or added extras.

Oysters and caviar are on offer and snacks include a wild mushroom & kohlrabi sandwich, crab donuts or fried chicken.

Elizabeth Wilson and Guy Pelly also attended the event last night. Elizabeth wore a fuchsia dress with a black belt

Strictly star Emma Thynn Viscountess Weymouth is pictured above. The model looked stunning in her outfit and also wore some silver earrings

Dexter Fletcher (left) cut a casual look last night while Edward Enninful went for a traditional suit and black shoes

James Middleton and Alizee Thevene are pictured above in the back of a cab, making their way home after the huge party had ended

This is while starters on offer include burrata, trout ceviche and Firehouse Caesar. For the main course, guests can also chose from dishes such as fresh pasta, roast chicken, glazed hake, monkfish and Galacian rib eye, extras are also available with the dishes for an additional £15 per person charge.

There are just two options for dessert which include apple and blackberry crumble or a chocolate brownie.

Tom Parker-Bowles, previously described the venue as 'hotter than the surface of the Sun where even God would have to wait for a table'.

David Beckham has previously hosted parties at the venue, inviting guests such as Cara Delevingne and Breaking Bad star Aaron Paul.

'Firehouse', as it is called (or hashtagged) by the lucky few who get to dine within its walls, is the product of hip hotelier André Balazs. And the celebs really cannot get enough, in its opening fortnight, Kate Moss and Lindsey Lohan were both pictured at the venue.

James Blunt and Sofia of Wessex were pictured in the back of the cab together last night as James is seen covering his face

James Matthews and Pippa Middleton were seen being ushered into the party last night at the exclusive London venue

Chiltern Firehouse is part of the group owned by renowned hotelier André Balazs' collection of bespoke, luxury hotels which include celebrity favourites The Mercer in Soho, New York, Chateau Marmont in Hollywood and Sunset Beach in Shelter Island plus The Hamptons.

Were you at the party? Get in touch - email Terri-Ann.Williams@Mailonline.co.uk or call 02036151762

Tucked away within what was one of the first purpose-built firestations in London behind Fort Knox style swanky gates on the rich streets of London's Marylebone, the building was designed in a Tudor, Neo-Gothic style by Robert Pearsall, resident architect for the Metropolitan Board of Works (MBW).

The Grade II listed Victorian building was built in 1889 by Robert Pearsall, the resident architect for the Metropolitan Board of Works, and is regarded as one of the finest surviving examples of the gothic architectural style used during the pre-war period.

It closed in 2005 and André Balazs discovered the building around five years ago with friend and London property developer Harry Handelsman.

He revamped it with the help of Paris-based Studio KO and it now comes complete with high ceilings, sleek tiles and a bustling open kitchen.

Following her appearance at the Queen's Christmas lunch at Buckingham Place, Beatrice (pictured), invited family and friends to celebrate with her and Edo at Chiltern Firehouse

***Were you at the party? Get in touch - email Terri-Ann.Williams@Mailonline.co.uk or call 02036151762***

Royal taxi of mum and dad: Prince William drives Kate Middleton home with George, Charlotte and Louis in back seats as The Firm leave Buckingham Palace after the Queen's Christmas lunch

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge took their three children to Buckingham Palace yesterday for the Royal Family's Christmas lunch hosted by the Queen.

They left together in the same car, but Prince William earlier arrived with his son Prince George, six, who appeared to be sat on a booster seat next to him in the front, while Kate brought Princess Charlotte, four, and Prince Louis, 19 months, in a separate vehicle.

Also attending the traditional annual event in London yesterday afternoon was a host of senior royals including Prince Charles, his wife Camilla, Princesses Beatrice and Eugenie and the under-fire Prince Andrew.

The Duke of York attended despite the continuing scandal over his friendship with paedophile tycoon Jeffrey Epstein - and the fallout from a disastrous BBC interview in which he unsuccessfully tried to clear his name.

Mike and Zara Tindall were there, as was Sophie, Countess of Wessex and her daughter Lady Louise Windsor, 16, in one car and her husband Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex with their son James, Viscount Severn, 12, in another.

However there was no sign of Prince Harry and Meghan, who do not plan to return to Britain until next year while they have a six-week break from royal duties to spend time with baby Archie in an undisclosed country.

William and Kate also arrived separately, despite coming in the same car for last year's event. Each had their own royal protection officer, compared to 2018, when the family arrived just with nanny Maria Teresa Turrion Borrallo.

Royal experts do not believe the separate arrival was for security reasons, despite claims in the past that Charles, Harry and William would not travel on the same plane to avoid the line of succession being wiped out if it crashed.

The arrangement is also unlikely to have been because of different school pick-up times, with Charlotte and George both now attending Thomas's Battersea in South West London which broke up for Christmas last Friday.

It was hoped Prince Philip, 98, would make the journey from Norfolk, where he spends most of his time nowadays, to attend. However, despite the Duke of Edinburgh going to last year's dinner, he has not yet been seen today.

Prince Louis, Princess Charlotte and Prince George leave the Queen's Christmas party at Buckingham Palace in London yesterday

The Duchess of Cambridge smiles as she left the Queen's Christmas party with her husband William and three children

Prince Louis, who is 19 months old, was photographed leaving the Christmas party at Buckingham Palace yesterday afternoon

Kate smiled in front of her daughter Princess Charlotte as they left the traditional annual party in London yesterday

Prince William and Kate left the Christmas lunch with Prince George (centre) and Prince Louis (left) visible in the back

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge leftr the Royal Family's Christmas lunch at Buckingham Palace yesterday afternoon

(Left to right) Prince Louis, Princess Charlotte and Prince George leave the Queen's Christmas lunch yesterday

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge left the party together yesterday afternoon, having earlier arrived separately

Seven-month-old Archie missed out on some fun family time with his new cousins Prince George, Princess Charlotte and Prince Louis, whom he has barely seen since his birth in May.

Children - including George, who used to refer to the Queen as 'Gan Gan' - and babies enjoyed a Christmas dinner in a separate room, run by nannies and palace staff. The youngsters even had their own entertainer.

Meghan first attended in 2017, with insiders saying she passed her first major test as a member of the Royal Family by pulling a cracker with future father-in-law, Prince Charles, donning a paper hat and reading out a corny joke.

The turkey and trimmings lunch at Buckingham Palace takes place annually on the Wednesday before Christmas, shortly before the Queen leaves for Sandringham for the festive season.

Prince George sat next to his father Prince William as they arrived for the Christmas lunch at Buckingham Palace yesterday

Princess Charlotte (left), four, and Prince Louis (right), 19 months old, both arrived at the party yesterday with their mother Kate

The Duchess of Cambridge waved as she arrived at the Christmas lunch yesterday with Princess Charlotte in the back of the car

The Duchess of Cambridge arrived at Kensington Palace with a security aide yesterday afternoon for the Christmas lunch

The Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Louis attended the Queen's Christmas Lunch at Buckingham Palace in London yesterday

Prince William smiled and waved as he arrived at Buckingham Palace in London with his son Prince George yesterday afternoon

Prince George, the oldest son of the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, arrived at Buckingham Palace yesterday afternoon

Prince William smiled as he sat alongside Prince George in the car as they arrived for the Christmas lunch in London yesterday

Prince George arrived for the Royal Family's Christmas Lunch at Buckingham Palace in London yesterday afternoon