Tom Steinfort has wished the new Today show team good luck, after being axed.

The 35-year-old, who had replaced Sylvia Jeffreys on the show in January, took to Twitter on Wednesday to bid an emotional farewell to viewers.

However, he added that he would be returning to 60 Minutes next year, a move he claims he's 'very much looking forward to'.

'All the best to the great new crew': Tom Steinfort (pictured) wished the new Today team good luck on Wednesday after being axed... as he confirmed he'll be returning to 60 Minutes in 2020

'A big thank you to the wonderful team at @TheTodayShow, who I loved working with this year,' Tom wrote.

'And a special thanks to our loyal viewers, who are so passionately engaged in the program. All the best to the great new crew, I'll be watching... after enjoying a bit of a sleep in!'

Tom had been a huge part of the show alongside former hosts Georgie Gardner and Deborah Knight, who were also axed amid the huge network shake-up.

Speaking about returning to his role on 60 Minutes, he added: 'A bit of personal news: Am very much looking forward to returning to @60Mins in 2020.'

He's coming back! Tom confirmed on Twitter that he would be returning to 60 Minutes next year, following his departure from the Today show

A year in the making: The Melbourne-born newsreader had made his debut on the show in January to replace Sylvia Jeffreys. Pictured on Today

'Will be great to work with my friends there again, covering the big stories in Australia and around the world!'

Next year's official Today show line-up was confirmed by Channel Nine on Tuesday.

New hosts Karl Stefanovic and Allison Langdon will be joined by Perth newsreader Tracy Vo, weatherman Tim Davies and former Sunday Night reporter Alex Cullen, who will present sport on the breakfast program.

Brooke Boney will continue her role as entertainment reporter when the new team debuts live on January 6, next year.

Changes: Channel Nine has announced the new line-up for the revamped Today show in 2020, with Karl Stefanovic (right) and Allison Langdon (left) taking over hosting duties

Meanwhile, Sylvia Jeffreys is set to permanently replace Sonia Kruger on Today Extra, after the 54-year-old TV veteran resigned following eight years on the show to return to Channel Seven.

Sylvia will host Today Extra alongside David Campbell, and will be covered by journalist Belinda Russell while she is on maternity leave next year.

Weekend Today will be hosted by Richard Wilkins and Rebecca Maddern, with Lara Vella covering Jayne Azzopardi as newsreader while she's also on maternity leave.

Completing the Weekend Today line-up is former Kids' WB presenter Lauren Phillips.