RUTH SUNDERLAND Spending Christmas without a washing machine might not sound like the world's worst deprivation.

But, given that the festive season is almost upon us, we should not underestimate the irritating consequences of yesterday's warning of a recall after a major safety flaw was identified in more than half a million appliances.

Play host to a set of grandparents, an auntie, an uncle and a cousin or two, and the laundry basket will soon be bursting. Cranberry sauce may be crystallising on the best table cloth. Children's clothes and muddy jeans from the Boxing Day walk will rapidly mount up.

Far more worrying than that, however, is the thought that your kitchen or utility room might be harbouring a death trap — and there's no help on offer until after Christmas. Just unplug your machine . . . and wait.

We should not underestimate the irritating consequences of yesterday's warning of a recall after a major safety flaw was identified in more than half a million Whirlpool appliances. Pictured is smoke pouring from a faulty machine

There is no question that the U.S. bosses of the giant corporation Whirlpool — its Hotpoint and Indesit brands are at the centre of safety concerns — have responded feebly to the possible endangerment of their British customers.

Whirlpool, whose headquarters are thousands of miles away in Benton Harbour, Michigan, has a long and troubling record in this country.

It includes a blaze three years ago in a tower block in Shepherd's Bush in West London linked to an Indesit tumble dryer. It took 120 firefighters to bring it under control, and a compensation deal with residents was agreed only this week.

Thankfully, no-one in that conflagration was injured, though some traumatised residents lost their homes and many possessions.

The outcome was tragically different in 2014 when two men in North Wales were killed in a fire 'most likely' caused by an electrical fault in the door switch of a Hotpoint tumble dryer. The coroner who ruled on the case three years later was scathing about Whirlpool's response, saying he did not feel confident bosses had taken on board the risk of fire or its potential consequences.

This summer the company admitted that there could be 800,000 faulty tumble dryers in homes around the UK.

Horrifically

A Select Committee of MPs looking into the company's safety record said its machines may have been to blame for at least 750 fires in 11 years.

But most horrifically, Whirlpool is also implicated in the Grenfell Tower fire in 2017 that killed more than 70 people in London, which experts have said may have started in a faulty Hotpoint fridge-freezer. The company has contested those claims.

The most terrifying aspect is that everyday white goods at the heart of our homes may be potential death traps. And Whirlpool's conduct has hardly brought consumers the reassurance they crave.

One particular cause of concern is its use of gagging orders. The company has forced customers — including one young mother who had to flee with her two children from a fire in her home caused by her dryer — to sign non-disclosure agreements. This means they cannot discuss what happened as a condition for receiving compensation.

Indeed, muzzling victims in this way is the height of corporate cynicism.

Not only does it deprive individual customers of their right to speak out, it also reduces public awareness of possibly lethal defects.

Yet if any company ought to be in tune with its consumers, it is Whirlpool. Its devices have been installed in homes for more than 100 years.

One can even claim that it played an important role in shaping society.

Cambridge economist Ha-Joon Chang has argued that the humble washing machine changed the world more than the internet because it liberated women from domestic drudgery, allowing them to work outside the home.

A Hotpoint washing machine model by Whirlpool Corporation. Whirlpool has issued a safety notice involving 519,000 fire-risk washing machines just months after the firm launched a recall of potentially dangerous dryers

We take them for granted now, but household appliances play a big role in all our lives and Whirlpool has made billions by selling them — though by its own admission its products have been plagued with faults from the start.

Back in 1912, a year after it was founded, it manufactured a batch of early washing machines with defective transmission gears. Back then it handled the problem with such integrity — recalling and replacing the affected appliances at no cost — that its next order doubled.

A hundred years on, however, rather than show genuine concern for consumers whose lives may be at risk from its products, Whirlpool has sought to minimise and cover up the possible dangers.

It became painfully clear just how out of touch the company is when it paraded a U.S. executive named Jeff Noel on television this week.

Gulping like a goldfish under his perfectly-pressed collar, he advised customers not to use their washing machines at temperatures higher than ten degrees 'censius', having failed to grasp our quaint old Centigrade scale.

Lawsuits

For his bosses in Michigan, including Whirlpool's $11 million a year chief executive Marc Bitzer, Britain is just another overseas market.

It's far from the first time a multinational corporation has treated its customers with utter disregard.

Pharmaceuticals firm Johnson & Johnson has been at the centre of a string of lawsuits. These include its involvement in the opioids crisis in the U.S., in which tens of thousands of people have become addicted to prescription medicines with dire consequences. This summer, a judge in Oklahoma said J&J had used 'false, misleading, and dangerous marketing campaigns' that contributed to rising rates of addiction and fatal overdoses.

European companies are far from blameless. German car giant VW was a major offender when it fitted cars with software to cheat emissions tests in the U.S. That hurt the motorists who purchased the cars, and the public at large by exposing them to pollution.

These are not rare occurrences, despite claims by every large business to be a good corporate 'citizen'.

Integrity

Whirlpool even has an 'Integrity Manual' which lectures staff to be 'ever mindful that there's no right way to do a wrong thing'. A worthy sentiment. But top bosses are at risk of losing sight of what is right, and what is the wrong.

They live in a bubble surrounded by sycophants and highly paid legal teams whose first reflex is to protect the company, rather than help customers. The result is a failure of empathy and a stubborn refusal to ever admit to being at fault.

Whirlpool has urged owners of appliances bought since 2014 to contact them immediately to check if their washing machine is one of the models affected. Pictured are their Michigan headquarters

Millions of British families have placed unquestioning trust in Whirlpool brands and the firm may end up paying heavily for its abysmal treatment of its customers here.

I have a Hotpoint washing machine — not one of those at risk — but after this debacle I have no intention of ever buying another.

With their appalling corporate arrogance, it is Whirlpool bosses who should be hung out to dry — not the consumer — this Christmas.