Spotify is combining its platform with social media to let users ‘discover music through friends whose taste they trust’.

Called Tastebuds, the feature would recommend music based on what your friends are listening to.

Users can follow friends and social groups to see their playlists and also artists to keep track of future releases in order to create the ultimate playlist.

The new addition was spotted by Jane Manchun Wong, who frequently reverse engineers apps to discover unreleased features, spotted a new addition called Spotify Tastebuds, according to AndroidPolice.

Scroll down for video

Spotify is combining its platform with social media to let users ‘discover music through friends whose taste they trust’. Called Tastebuds, the feature would recommend music based on what your friends are listening to

The description at the current page for Tastebuds says, "Now you can discover music through friends whose taste you trust."

Wong noted that the feature is inspired by the app called Tastebuds, which is available for Spotify, and is a way for people to connect based on their musical taste.

Spotify teamed up with two dating services in 2012 to create a social dating scene that brings music match-making to dating match-making.

The idea flips the usual approach to dating: Normally you find yourself on a first date, and try to find some common ground through those typical questions: 'What films do you like?', or 'What music are you into?'

The description at the current page for Tastebuds says, "Now you can discover music through friends whose taste you trust." Wong noted that the feature is inspired by the app called Tastebuds, which is available for Spotify, and is a way for people to connect based on their musical taste

The new feature may be a combination or acquisition of the standalone Tastebuds app, but it is still in the testing phases and it is not clear if Spotify will roll out the feature

The standalone Tastebuds app scans your 'most-played' songs and your playlists and then, following user-chosen filters such as age, gender and location, will suggest people with similar likes.

Then you can message your potential significant other and start talking in real-time.

Sten Garmark, Director of platform at Spotify, said in 2012: 'Your taste in music is one of the most common topics of conversation when meeting someone, whether they are a date or just a new friend, and it’s hugely important to have compatible tastes.

'Harmony on Spotify might just be a great way to find new friends or start a new relationship.'

However, Tastebuds seems to have fallen off, as its Twitter page has been inactive for almost three years and its blog was last updated four years ago.

The new feature may be a combination or acquisition, but it is still in the testing phases and it is not clear if Spotify will roll out the feature.