Antonio Rudiger has spoken out after he was allegedly racially abused during Chelsea's 2-0 win over Tottenham.

Rudiger complained to referee Anthony Taylor that monkey noises had been directed towards him during the second half of Sunday's game.

After a brief stoppage, a tannoy announcement ordered the abuse to stop before the message was repeated a further two times before the end of the 90 minutes.

Antonio Rudiger was allegedly racially abused during Chelsea's 2-0 win over Tottenham

The defender told referee Anthony Taylor he'd heard monkey noises coming from the crowd

The game was stopped and three tannoy announcements called for an end to the abuse

After the game, Tottenham vowed to 'conduct a thorough investigation' and Rudiger thanked Spurs fans who had contacted him with supportive messages.

He tweeted: 'It is really sad to see racism again at a football match, but I think it's very important to talk about it in public. If not, it will be forgotten again in a couple of days (as always).

'I don't want to involve Tottenham as an entire club into this situation as I know that just a couple of idiots were the offenders. I got a lot of supportive messages on social media from Spurs fans as well in the last hours - thank you a lot for this.

Antonio Rudiger called on fans 'to get some basic education' after racism storm on Sunday

Rudiger's Chelsea team-mate, Willian, called for an end to racism which is blighting football

The PFA also released a strongly worded statement urging the government to take action

'I really hope that the offenders will be found and punished soon, and in such a modern football ground like the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium with dozens of TV and security cameras, it must be possible to find and subsequently punish them.

'If not, then there must have been witnesses in the stadium who saw and heard the incident. It's just such a shame that racism still exists in 2019. When will this nonsense stop?'

Rudiger's team-mate, Willian, also posted a tweet condemning the incident. He tweeted: 'I'm very happy for our team performance in the derby today but at the same time I'm very disappointed by the manifestations of racism during the game. We cannot accept this. We are together my bro @ToniRuediger #saynotoracism

The PFA were equally quick to back Rudiger after issuing a firm statement calling on the football world and the government to eradicate it from the game.

It's the second racism storm to hit English football recently after Manchester derby incident

Manchester United midfielder Fred was subjected to monkey chants and pelted with objects

The statement said: 'We are disgusted and dismayed that once again, a Premier League fixture has been tainted by abuse from the stands towards players.

'It has become clear that football players are on the receiving end of the blatant racism that is currently rife in the UK, but they are not alone.

'The PFA stands beside every player who faces discrimination. We will continue to fight on their behalf to combat this issue for good.

It's the second racism storm to hit the Premier League in the space of two weeks following an incident during the Manchester derby.

A supporter was seen making monkey gestures towards Manchester United midfielder Fred, who was also pelted with several objects.

The fan, 41-year-old Anthony Burke, has since been arrested by police on suspicion of a racially aggravated public order offence but has denied any wrongdoing.