Former Liverpool forward Harry Kewell has heaped praise on Trent Alexander-Arnold for his 'world class' pass that set up Roberto Firmino to score the winning goal against Monterrey.

Jurgen Klopp's men were heading to extra-time with the Club World Cup semi-final finely poised at 1-1 in Doha before a moment of magic from Alexander-Arnold saw Firmino score in injury time.

The Liverpool right back placed a precise and delicate cross through a sea of bodies to the feet of his Brazilian team-mate - a pass which was described as 'perfect' by Kewell.

Trent Alexander-Arnold (left) set up Roberto Firmino to score the winner against Monterrey

Former Liverpool star Harry Kewell described the pass as 'world class' after the game

'The pass was world class,' Kewell said after the game. 'He has seen something there with that pass and we all know Trent’s ability to cross a ball.

'He is obviously seeing things in games and this movement of Firmino - whether he has just seen it - and Firmino knows exactly where it is going to be.

'It is the pace of it that is the difference. It was the perfect timing of the pass to put it in that area.'

Glen Johnson was in agreement with Kewell and applauded the youngster for his quick-thinking.

Alexander-Arnold (bottom right) plays a first-time cross into the Monterrey area

The precise and delicate cross makes it's way through a sea of bodies in the 91st minute

Firmino was first to react and finish off the cross to win the game for Liverpool in injury time

'I thought Mo [Salah] had messed it up! Where he sets it back, the defence jumps forward and Trent leaves the ball in the area they came from. It’s a great pass, he has just left it in a dangerous area.

'Some people would have seen that space coming but would have put too much pace on it so Firmino couldn’t get there or it would be too hard to control the finish.

'He has just left it in there with the right pace, that’s the difference. Some people would see the space and think 'whip it into a dangerous area' where as he has stayed calm and composed and just caressed it in there.'

Liverpool will now take on Flamengo in the Club World Cup final on Saturday after they beat Al Hilal on Tuesday.