Everton have released a video giving fans some fascinating behind the scenes footage of how new manager Carlo Ancelotti spent his first day at the club.

The Toffees appointed Ancelotti as their new boss on Saturday with the Italian signing a four-and-a-half-year contract.

The 60-year-old's arrival coincided with Saturday's Premier League clash with Arsenal, the footage documenting his journey from arriving at the airport to attending the game.

Scroll down for video

Carlo Ancelotti makes his way off a private jet at Liverpool Airport on Saturday morning

Ancelotti is greeted by Everton’s Director of Football Marcel Brands upon his arrival

Ancelotti's private jet is seen arriving at Liverpool Airport in the morning, the former AC Milan and Real Madrid boss looking in good spirits as he stepped out onto the tarmac.

And then it was straight down to business, the veteran manager signing his contract within minutes of making his way off the plane.

Ancelotti was then transferred to Goodison Park, where fans greeted him with cheers as he made his way out of the car and into the ground.

Ancelotti signs his contract to become manager of Everton shortly after exiting the plane

The Italian is greeted by cheers as he arrives at Goodison Park for Saturday's match

The club's staff greeted him warmly with many offering out their hands and saying congratulations.

Entering the director's box, Ancelotti was given a big hug by chairman Bill Kenwright before having a chat with owner Farhad Moshiri and new Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta, who was there to watch his new side.

Everton's new boss then made his way to his seat for the game, taking time to take plenty of selfies with fans on the way.

Ancelotti shares a hug with Everton chairman Bill Kenwright in the directors' box

The former Napoli manager chats with Everton owner Farhad Moshiri ahead of the game

Ancelotti and Moshiri are joined by new Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta (right)

He was clearly impressed by the atmosphere, saying 'wow' as the players made their way out of the tunnel.

Ancelotti has taken over from caretaker manager Duncan Ferguson at Goodison Park and he has a huge job on his hands to restore Everton’s confidence.

He takes charge of a team that has already lost nine games in the Premier League.

The Toffees currently languish in 15th, just four points above the relegation zone. They have not won a trophy since the FA Cup in 1995.

The 60-year-old took time to pose for photos with a number of fans before the match