Australian Republic Movement chairman Peter FitzSimons said Australian MPs and soldiers shouldn't swear allegiance to the Queen

Soldiers and MPs should stop swearing allegiance to the Queen because she is a 'foreign monarch', republicans say.

Australian Republic Movement chairman Peter FitzSimons raised the issue in a parliamentary inquiry into nationhood, national identity and democracy in October - and doubled down on his stance in a newspaper interview this weekend.

In a submission to parliament, Mr FitzSimons pointed out that MPs, diggers and judges aren't required to make a pledge to Australia.

'Most Australians would be shocked and disappointed to learn that their elected member of parliament is not required to pledge any allegiance to them or the nation,' he said.

'It is beyond question that the allegiance of parliamentarians, judges and members of the Australian Defence Force lie with Australia and its people first.

'Why must they be forced to continue to make pledges of allegiance to a foreign monarch of a former colonial power over and above the people of Australia?'

He also said pledging allegiance to the Queen 'becomes even more ludicrous' in wake of the parliamentary dual citizenship revelations that shocked parliament in 2018.

'Despite a number of parliamentarians being referred to the High Court or forced to resign for holding British Citizenship, upon re-assuming office they were required to swear allegiance to Her Majesty the Queen of the United Kingdom.'

Twelve parliamentarians lost their seats fearing they were dual British citizens and unable to represent the Australian people under section 44 of the Constitution.

Mr FitzSimons said referendum is required to change the oaths of parliamentarians, but oaths taken by soldiers could be changed immediately (stock image of Australian soldiers in Brisbane)

Mr FitzSimons highlighted the fact that new Australian citizens pledge an 'unequivocal allegiance to Australia and its people' when federal parliamentarians do not.

He said a referendum is required to change the oaths of parliamentarians, but oaths taken by soldiers could be changed immediately.

He told The Australian: 'In many respects, this would simply ensure that the oath being taken by members of the Australian Defence Force reflects the allegiance they already demonstrate in uniform every day - a commitment to the Australian people.'