Ernesto Valverde played down suggestions that the Barcelona players had been affected by the controversy surrounding El Clasico with Real Madrid.

The match had been initially scheduled for October 26 but was rescheduled due to the political turmoil that gripped Catalonia after separatist leaders were given lengthy jail sentences two months ago.

The game was played amid a protest near the stadium in favour of Catalan independence.

A banner that reads: 'Spain Sit And Talk' is held aloft during Wednesday night's El Clasico

Pro Catalan-independence set fire to garbage containers outside the Nou Camp

There were helicopters circling overhead when both teams got off the team bus before the game and an announcement was made repeatedly during the second half that spectators should leave the ground from the north side of the stadium because of trouble outside the ground on the north side.

'The atmosphere around the game didn't affect the players,' he said. 'It was the same as always we went to the hotel and then we went to the game. There was a little bit more noise in the build-up but it did not affect the players. I saw the yellow balls thrown on to the pitch but they weren't that many.'

Despite a heavy police presence, some protesters blocked a major avenue near the stadium, disrupting traffic ahead of the game.

Several Pro-Independence Catalan flags were being waved by Barcelona fans in the stands

The match also had to be momentarily paused as protesters hurled balls on to the pitch

Minutes before the match began Catalan police broke up fighting that flared between some Barcelona fans and pro-independence protesters, detaining one person for throwing projectiles at them.

Loud chants of 'independence' and 'freedom' greeted kick-off while many supporters held up flags reading 'Spain Sit and Talk' distributed by protest organisers in a call for dialogue between the central government and Catalonia.

As the second half got underway masked demonstrators broke down an exterior fence in a failed attempt to gain entry to the stadium, a police spokesman said.

The group set fire to waste containers to create a barricade before several vans of police arrived to disperse the crowd, Reuters TV footage showed.

Wednesday's protest was called by secretive Catalan protest group Democratic Tsunami, which says it favours peaceful civic disobedience. The group's main goals are to get Spain to negotiate on Catalonia's right to self-determination and to achieve freedom for the jailed separatists.

One protester makes puts his middle finger up as containers burn around him

Barcelona boss Ernesto Valverde insisted that his players were not affected by the controversy

Police officers pictured apprehending two protesters outside Barcelona's stadium

Many protesters carried banners that read 'Spain, sit and talk' and the organisation said on Twitter it would distribute 100,000 of those banners to the people attending the game. It also told them to bring inflatable balls and to write on them a 'message for the world'.

Democratic Tsunami, which organised mass protests at Barcelona's airport in October and blocked a major highway, said it did not wish to blockade or suspend the match.

Authorities assembled a 3,000-strong force of public and private security officers to guarantee the match would not be disrupted, but declined to say how that compared to other 'El Clasico' games.

The Spanish central government sent around 500 additional anti-riot police to Barcelona, who would only intervene if the Catalan police asked for their help, a national police spokesman said.

There was a heavy police presence at the Nou Camp amid concerns of political protests