Caitlyn Jenner is stepping out for her daily cup of joe.

The star - formally known as Bruce Jenner - stepped out in Malibu on Sunday afternoon for a quick pick-me-up while out on the go.

Jenner, 70, appeared to be getting back into her routine after returning home from Australia for her appearance on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of here.

Out and about: Caitlyn Jenner is spotted out and about on Sunday afternoon for a cup of coffee while out in Malibu

For her outing, she rocked a sporty white jacket with three teal lines along the sleeves.

She had her simple teal t-shirt tucked into her jeans with a brown belt to complete the look.

The former Olympian wore her favorite pair of Yeezys for the outing while carrying a small black duffle-style handbag.

Looking good: For her outing, she rocked a sporty white jacket with three teal lines along the sleeves

Recently, while whipping up a meal for herself, Jenner took to her social media to give her ex-wife Kris Jenner a special shout-out.

'Thank goodness for @krisjenner cookbook!' she said in the video while holding up her cookbook in the kitchen. 'Dinner is served!'

'Actually, I used to make this for Kendall and Kylie all the time, but sad news, I couldn't remember the recipe so where did I have to go? In the Kitchen with Kris to find the recipe. I'm ready to eat.'

Cute and comfy: The former Olympian wore her favorite pair of Yeezy's for the outing while carrying a small black duffle-style handbag

This special shout out comes after a rift between the two follow Caitlyn's transition.

Back in 2017, while on Watch What Happen's Live with Andy Cohen, Kris' daughter Kim Kardashian set the record straight on Caitlyn's new memoir The Secrets of My Life.

'No, one. No, I would say two percent,' the Skims Founder revealed on a chance if the two would ever speak again.

'And those are Kendall and Kylie. That's their percentage. All fair, I think.'

Shout out: Caitlyn recently gave her ex-wfie Kris Jenner a shoutout while using her cookbook to make dinner

In the book, Kris' ex-husband also alleges that she knew about her gender identity even before the two got married back in 1991.

Kris and the rest of the Kardashian family have taken their mom's side and explained that this is not true.

But that's not all, Caitlyn also went on to call herself a 'punching bag' throughout her marriage with the famous momager

The Family: Caitlyn posed with the Kardashian-Jenner family back in 2016, as Khloe Kardashian keeps her distance

And while it seems as though everyone in the family has made amends with Caitlyn, one person is still holding a grudge.

Khloe Kardashian has revealed on numerous occasions that she is not on speaking terms with the star.

'I said, you slaughtered my mother and you have the nerve to say, "What happened to family sticking together?"' the Good American founder said during an episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians while on the phone with Kris after Caitlyn's Howard Stern interview back in 2016.

Father and daughter: Caitlyn smiled with her two daughters Kendall and Kylie Jenner while at the Austin-Healey Sprite event on Rodeo Drive back in June 2017

Back in November, Jenner tried to clear the air about their feud and opened up about her relationship with her step-daughter.

'I went through every kid and Khloe for some reason was pi**ed off about something through this whole process,' she explained.

'It's been five or six years and I really haven't talked to her since.'

This year: Kendall attended the Vanity Fair Oscar Party with Caitlyn and her rumored girlfriend Sophia Hutchins



