23-time Grammy winner Beyoncé Knowles-Carter was every bit the fierce feline in a leopard-print fashion post she shared on Sunday.

The 38-year-old R&B diva practically purred in a plunging peplum pencil dress, matching gloves, and black patent leather heels selected by stylist Marni Senofonte.

Hairstylist Neal Farinah coiffed the Lion King actress' thigh-length box braids and make-up artist Sir John brought out her natural beauty.

Here kitty kitty! 23-time Grammy winner Beyoncé Knowles-Carter was every bit the fierce feline in a leopard-print fashion post she shared on Sunday

Beyoncé accessorized her animal-print attire with jade-green earrings, statement ring, and clutch.

Knowles-Carter rocked the look last Monday while attending jewelry designer Lorraine Schwartz's holiday bash at karaoke bar Blind Dragon on the Sunset Strip in West Hollywood.

And while the Homecoming star never sang herself, she 'danced on the couch' when her mother Tina Lawson belted a cover of Chaka Khan's 1979 hit I Feel for You, according to Page Six.

The mother-daughter duo were joined by her former Destiny's Child bandmate, four-time Grammy winner Kelly Rowland.

Roar: The 38-year-old R&B diva practically purred in a plunging peplum pencil dress, matching gloves, and black patent leather heels selected by stylist Marni Senofonte

Plaited: Hairstylist Neal Farinah coiffed the Lion King actress' thigh-length box braids and make-up artist Sir John brought out her natural beauty

Flower petals: Beyoncé accessorized her animal-print attire with jade-green earrings, statement ring, and clutch

Woman of the hour: Knowles-Carter rocked the look last Monday while attending jewelry designer Lorraine Schwartz's (M) holiday bash at karaoke bar Blind Dragon on the Sunset Strip in West Hollywood

Knowles-Carter also struck a pose beside RuPaul's Drag Race alums Mariah Balenciaga (season 3) and Kylie 'Sonique' Love (season 2) as well as drag queen Jonnie Reinhart.

'I got to sing [Old Town Road] in front of Beyoncé on Monday night!' gushed the transgender 36-year-old on Instagram.

Also enjoying Lorraine Schwartz's holiday bash were Queen Bey's other stylist Ty Hunter, DJ Cassidy, Nelly, and Kim Kardashian West.

Beyoncé and her husband of 11 years, Jay-Z, are preparing to celebrate Christmas with their three children followed by daughter Blue Ivy's 8th birthday on January 7.

Mommie dearest: And while the Homecoming star never sang herself, she 'danced on the couch' when her mother Tina Lawson belted a cover of Chaka Khan's 1979 hit I Feel for You

Sister from another mister: The mother-daughter duo were joined by her former Destiny's Child bandmate, four-time Grammy winner Kelly Rowland (R)

Yassss! Knowles-Carter also struck a pose beside RuPaul's Drag Race alums Mariah Balenciaga (2-L) and Kylie 'Sonique' Love (2-R) as well as drag queen Jonnie Reinhart (R)

The transgender 36-year-old (2-L) gushed on Instagram: 'I got to sing [Old Town Road] in front of Beyoncé on Monday night!'

Last Thursday, the 50-year-old rap mogul unveiled his list of 40 favorite songs of 2019 on Tidal, which included two tracks (Almeda and Binz) by his sister-in-law Solange.

The Brooklyn-born billionaire has clearly patched things up with the 33-year-old Grammy winner, who famously attacked him in an elevator at the Standard Hotel in 2014.

'We had one disagreement ever,' Jay (born Shawn Carter) explained on Tidal's RapRadar podcast in 2017.

'Before and after we've been cool. She's like my sister. I will protect her. That's my sister, not my sister-in-law, my sister...

Billionaire couple: Beyoncé and her husband of 11 years, Jay-Z, are preparing to celebrate Christmas with their three children followed by daughter Blue Ivy's 8th birthday on January 7 (pictured on December 14)

Almeda and Binz: Last Thursday, the 50-year-old rap mogul unveiled his list of 40 favorite songs of 2019 on Tidal, which included two tracks by his sister-in-law Solange

'We had one disagreement ever': The Brooklyn-born billionaire has clearly patched things up with the 33-year-old Grammy winner (2-R), who famously attacked him in an elevator at the Standard Hotel in 2014 (pictured in 2014)

Shout out: Jay also made sure to include his famous wife's single Already featuring Major Lazer and Shatta Wale from her Lion King soundtrack, The Gift

'I fought my brothers and argued with my brothers my whole life. It just so happens, who we are, these things go into a different space, but it ain't nothing.'

The 22-time Grammy winner also made sure to include his famous wife's single Already featuring Major Lazer and Shatta Wale from her Lion King soundtrack, The Gift.

The NFL partner's list also included songs by Kanye West, DaBaby, Drake, Rick Ross, Travis Scott, and Tyler, The Creator.

Who will win? Beyoncé, Timothy McKenzie, and Ilya Salmanzadeh's track Spirit is next up for the best original song trophy at the 77th Golden Globe Awards, which air January 5 on NBC

Yé or nay? On January 18, the Houston-born Texan launches her athleisure attire company Ivy Park's gender-neutral collaboration with German sportswear brand, Adidas

Beyoncé, Timothy McKenzie, and Ilya Salmanzadeh's track Spirit is next up for the best original song trophy at the 77th Golden Globe Awards, which air January 5 on NBC.

The trio faces heavy competition against duos Taylor Swift + Andrew Lloyd Webber, Elton John + Bernie Taupin, Kristen Anderson-Lopez + Robert Lopez, and Joshuah Brian Campbell + Cynthia Erivo.

On January 18, the Houston-born Texan launches her athleisure attire company Ivy Park's gender-neutral collaboration with German sportswear brand, Adidas.