Hundreds of festive jobs have been posted to Airtasker as Australians search for last minute gift wrappers, kitchen hands for Christmas lunch and even someone to dispose of unwanted toys on Boxing Day.

The 'gig platform' allows people to post 'tasks' that can then be bid on by the public, with the budget slowly increasing so long as the original poster is still comfortable.

Once accepted, the job is carried out and payment exchanged.

There have been 702 people looking to have a trampoline or cubby house assembled, 514 requests for someone to install Christmas lights and 514 more for catering or bar staff for holiday parties.

Hundreds of festive jobs have been posted to Airtasker as Australians search for last minute kitchen hands for Christmas lunch and even someone to dispose of unwanted toys (stock image)

While these are perfectly normal appeals there have also been a host of weird tasks posted to the website in recent weeks.

One person needed 14 simple Christmas tree ornaments made from a grandmother's skirt to give to her great-grandchildren as a means of remembering her. The task budget was $50, the Sydney Morning Herald reported.

Another wanted a 'plush snowflake' sewn together for $38, while a third stranger was hoping to find someone to unpack 250 hams from boxes and put them into 'ham bags'.

Overseas a woman was looking to spend $40 on having her Christmas cards personally delivered to her family because 'she'd left it too late to post'.

Overseas a woman was looking to spend $40 on having her Christmas cards personally delivered to her family because 'she'd left it too late to post' (stock image)

'I live overseas and have left it too late to send my family presents,' she wrote.

'I would like to pay someone to buy Christmas cards and deliver them to my family home.'

In Victoria a woman wanted to hire someone to work as a cook and kitchen hand on Christmas Day, for the tidy sum of $105.

'I require a kitchen hand on Christmas Day at a residential address,' she said.

'It will involve dishwashing, rubbish removal, glass washing and kitchen duties, collecting of glasses for washing and returning to the bar area.'

A separate person would help with all of the food fixings on the day.

What Airtasker Christmas jobs have been listed in the past... Christmas Elf, $120, Gladesville, NSW Elf needed to entertain 15 children aged 2-7 years at a private house Christmas party. For 2 hours from 5pm the elf must greet the guests, play Christmas party games and keep the kiddies amused. Elf to supply own costume and have a personality to entertain. Extra set of hands Xmas day, $475, Coogee, NSW I need someone to help out Xmas day cleaning, stacking dishwasher, serving food. Dress up as Santa, $94, Guildford, NSW Dress up as Santa on Christmas Eve and hand out pressies and lollie bags to kids at around 10.30pm for a family BBQ. Tree climber, place LED Xmas light on top of tree, $40, Kew, East VIC Person wants Christmas lights placed on top of eucalyptus tree about 15 metres high. Putting trampoline together, $70, Tapping, WA We are looking for someone that can put the following 10ft trampoline together for us. The family needs someone to assemble the trampoline while they go out with the kids and come back by 3pm on 24th December. Beer Sherpa, $60, Altona, VIC A 'beer Sherpa' needed for Christmas break up to cart an esky around a 9-hole golf course with a push cart in Spotswood and deliver beers as needed. Source: Airtasker

Most strangely there was also a 'dump run' on Boxing Day put up on Airtasker for $5 by a well-meaning Queenslander

One listed task required someone to dress up as Santa for a few hours and surprise a group of adults at a party, with the payment plan being $10 for 30 minutes of show time.

Most strangely there was also a 'dump run' on Boxing Day put up on Airtasker for $5 by a well-meaning Queenslander.

But while they suggested getting rid of 'unwanted boxes' the tip tripper also said they could remove gifts that had 'broken' on Christmas Day.

There were plenty of people looking for a skilled worker to 'clean up' after them on December 25, although these have not been so hastily bid on.