One million older people face malnutrition while everybody else is feasting over Christmas, a report said yesterday.

It said one in ten people over the age of 65 are likely to be eating badly because of physical disabilities, dental problems, or not being able to shop for food.

Some cannot afford to eat properly, the report from charity Age UK and the Malnutrition Task Force pressure group said. And many who fail to get enough food are likely to develop health problems and will be at risk of having to go to hospital.

One million older people face malnutrition while everybody else is feasting over Christmas, a report said yesterday (stock image)

Nine out of ten of the older people likely to be malnourished will be living at home and may develop problems which go unnoticed.

The figures are from the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing – which began in 2002 and looks at health, disability and life expectancy.

They suggest that among the over-75s nearly a quarter of a million have physical difficulties eating food – and almost two million struggle to eat because of dental conditions.

The report from charity Age UK and the Malnutrition Task Force pressure group said one in ten people over the age of 65 are likely to be eating badly because of physical disabilities, dental problems, or not being able to shop for food (stock image)

Dianne Jeffrey, of the Malnutrition Task Force, said: ‘The root of the problem doesn’t just lie with poverty... whether you are slim or even if you are seemingly overweight, you can still be malnourished and a couple of days of not eating can have serious physical effects for older people.’

Families and friends should look out for signs of malnutrition which include rings being loose and slipping off, clothes or belts looking too big, people having problems eating or lack of appetite, the report said.

It also suggested offering vulnerable people frequent snacks or small meals, serving full-fat milk, yoghurt and cheese, and providing food that looks and smells good.

Serving meals on blue-coloured plates could help, as the colour helps people see what they are eating.