Thrill seekers can now enjoy sunrise kayaking tours of Sydney Harbour, taking in iconic sights like the Opera House and Harbour Bridge while sipping Champagne breakfast on the water.

Sydney by Kayak, a tour company founded by Sydney couple Laura Stone and Benjamin Pike in 2013, recently launched the one-of-a-kind experience specifically for couples.

Departing from Lavender Bay on the city's North Shore just before dawn, kayakers are treated to strawberries, French pastries, alcohol-free bubbles and a barista-made coffee of your choice, served on a tray fixed to the front of the kayak.

Cashing in on the booming trend for 'Instagrammable' activities, a qualified instructor paddles behind you, taking photographs in front of the city's most famous landmarks along the way.

Thrill seekers can now enjoy sunrise kayaking tours of Sydney Harbour, taking in iconic sights like the Opera House and Harbour Bridge while sipping Champagne breakfast on the water

Kayakers are treated to French pastries, alcohol-free bubbles and a barista-made coffee of your choice, served on a tray fixed to the front of the kayak.

Once the sun is up and you've worked up an appetite, step back on land for a full sit-down breakfast at a swanky waterfront cafe where guests can indulge in an alcoholic glass of Italian bubbles and a choice of hearty dishes.

But the day doesn't end there.

After breakfast, take a ten minute ferry ride to world famous Circular Quay, home of the upscale Shangri-La Hotel, where guests can spend the afternoon relaxing at the exclusive Chi Spa, which boasts a pool, sauna and fully equipped gym.

The half-day experience costs $610 per couple, with tours departing daily from Lavender Bay.

The half-day experience costs $610 per couple, with tours departing daily from Lavender Bay

Tourists and locals have been raving about the kayak experiences online, leaving glowing five-star reviews on travel sites like TripAdvisor

Prices include a day pass to the Chi Spa at the Shangri-La, and best of all, gift vouchers are still available for Christmas.

But if champagne on the water doesn't do it for you, the business also runs group 'clean up' tours where kayakers do their bit for the environment by collecting rubbish from the water around the Harbour Bridge.

Tourists and locals have been raving about the kayak experiences online, leaving glowing five-star reviews on travel sites like TripAdvisor.

The business also runs group 'clean up' tours where kayakers do their bit for the environment by collecting rubbish from the water around the Harbour Bridge

'We had one of the best Sunday mornings ever,' one woman said of the experience.

'The guide was great to chat to, so knowledgeable about the surrounding areas and keen to share his love of being out on the water. The photo session was such a great bonus, we'll cherish them for years to come!'

Many called the tour a 'must do' for anyone visiting Sydney.

Others raved about the tours on Instagram, with one woman tagging her friend and saying: 'This is what we're doing next time you come to Sydney!'