She's known for her daring and often risque fashion choices.

And Geoffrey Edelsten's ex-wife Gabi Grecko didn't disappoint fans on Monday when she flaunted her cleavage in a daring two-piece outfit in front of a Christmas tree.

Taking to Instagram, Gabi shared a video of herself dancing seductively in a bejewelled tangerine trouser and crop top combo.

Orange you glad it's Christmas? Taking to Instagram, Gabi shared a video of herself dancing seductively in a bejewelled tangerine trouser and crop top combo on Monday

'ITS GLITTA SEASON,' she captioned the video alongside a series of flame emojis,

The social media star completed the look with love-heart sunglasses.

Gabi, who rose to fame after marrying Australian businessman Geoffrey Edelsten, 76, trained the camera on her ample assets and took to her Instagram stories to urge fans to comment on her post.

Razzle dazzle! Gabi shared a video of herself dancing seductively in a bejewelled tangerine trouser and crop top combo

On-off relationship: Gabi rose to fame after marrying Australian businessman Geoffrey Edelsten, 76 (pictured) with the pair splitting in April this year

Earlier this month, the New-York based rapper, also known as Glitta Fox, was rushed to a hospital in Manhattan.

She took a selfie in the back of an ambulance, and revealed she was suffering from aspiration pneumonia.

Gabi wrote on a post: 'In hospital with an aspiration pneumonia and needed CPR so broke my sternum.'

'Pray for me. Love you guys,' she added.

Scary! Earlier this month, the New-York based rapper, also known as Glitta Fox, was rushed to a hospital in Manhattan suffering from aspiration pneumonia

Aspiration pneumonia is caused by breathing in vomit, a foreign object like a peanut or a harmful substance such as smoke or a chemical, according to the NHS.

Gabi also shared several selfies of herself wearing an oxygen mask and an IV drip in her arm in what appeared to be way to lighten her spirits.

The rapper wrote on another post: 'Still grateful af to be alive. One of god's stronger warriors. F them h**s'.