Australians flying home from Bali this festive season should expect major delays as airports ramp up security to stop swine fever getting into the country.

Passengers landing in Australia from Indonesia will be face extra questions and even detector dogs after the disease flared up in North Sumatra last week.

African Swine Fever has never hit Australian shores but an outbreak could decimate the nation's $5.2billion pork industry.

All passengers on selected flights will be stopped, screened and their luggage will be searched.

Passengers from Indonesia to Australia face major delays as biosecurity officers screen passengers for pork products (stock image of passengers waiting for flights at a Bali airport)

WHAT IS AFRICAN SWINE FEVER? African swine fever is a highly contagious viral disease of domestic and wild pigs. The virus spreads by direct contact between pigs or indirectly by contaminated items such as feed, feed ingredients, equipment, vehicles, clothing and footwear. Symptoms of disease can include: elevated temperatures, weakness, reduced appetite, vomiting, diarrhoea, skin lesions, nose and eye discharge, coughing or difficulty breathing, convulsions. Source: Department of Agriculture

The screenings come as the Australian Government announced more than $66million to crack down on people bringing undeclared pork products into the country.

The funding covered new detector dogs, two 3D x-ray machines in Melbourne and Sydney, biosecurity officers to identify pork products and machines to issue on-the-spot fines of $420 for anyone attempting to bring pork into the country.

Thousands of pigs have died in more than a dozen regencies across North Sumatra over the past three months, and the pace of deaths is increasing.

As of December 15, nearly 30,000 pigs have died from African swine fever in Indonesia’s North Sumatra.

The disease has caused millions of dollars of economic losses as authorities try to quarantine the areas affected.

In a press conference on December 12, Bridget McKenzie, Australia's Agriculture Minister said the disease threatens 36,000 jobs in the industry.

She asked that Australians travelling back from Indonesia be 'extra diligent' when declaring what they are bringing into the country.

An Indonesian official from the health ministry previously pictured testing pigs for signs of illness

Ms McKenzie previously described the epidemic as the worst animal health disease the world will ever see.

Humans cannot be infected but authorities predict the disease will eradicate up to a quarter of the global pig stocks and obliterate Asian piggeries.

There's no vaccine or cure for the disease.

Between November 5, 2018 and August 31, 2019 more than 27 tonnes of pork were intercepted on air travellers entering Australia.

Health officials and veterinarians throwing a dead pig into an isolated quarantined pit in Vietnam in May to stop the spread of African swine fever

In October, South Korea reported its first cases of African swine fever while China's swine herd is down by about 40 percent.

The shortage has pushed prices of the country's meat staple up by at least half.

A Rabobank report warned China could lose 200 million pigs during the epidemic.

Earlier this year, the UN's Food and Agricultural Organization said almost five million pigs in Asia had died or been culled because of the spread of the disease.