Advertisement

She's ringing in the new year with an exciting hosting stint on ITV's The Masked Singer, a new man, and an aim to 'do something fun and a bit naughty' when it comes to her lifestyle choices.

And Davina McCall enjoyed some downtime as she embarked on a scenic stroll along the beach during her well-deserved festive getaway in Australia earlier in the month.

The veteran presenter, 52 - who follows a strict diet and exercise regimen - looked phenomenal as she accentuated her impressively toned physique in a pale blue bikini set.

Relaxed: Davina McCall enjoyed some downtime as she embarked on a scenic stroll along the beach during her well-deserved festive getaway in Australia earlier in the month

Soaking up the sights, the media personality flashed a rare glimpse of her bottom tattoo in her scanty two-piece, which featured a strapless bralet and frilly briefs.

The former Big Brother host displayed her signature style with her choice of accessories as she teamed her beach look with a crucifix choker, a silver watch and dainty bangles.

Maintaining the blue colour scheme of her ensemble, Davina protected her eyes from the sun in a pair of aviator reflective shades.

The Masked Singer UK judge wore her tresses in a tousled bun, while her youthful-looking complexion was on full display as she went make-up free.

The presenter has looked drastically leaner during previous outings, prompting criticism from fans who accused her of taking her fitness regime too far (pictured right in 2017)

Radiant: The veteran presenter, 52, looked phenomenal as she accentuated her impressively toned physique in a pale blue bikini set

She recently revealed her intentions to spice up the New Year during an interview with Health & Wellbeing Magazine.

The clean-living star insisted she was determined to do something 'fun and a bit naughty' due to her healthy lifestyle.

Davina said: 'I feel like I've given up enough because I don't drink alcohol and I eat well, so I think there's a point at which you can just be too good, so I reckon my resolution would be to start up something fun that I can do that's a bit naughty, something that's bad for me. People can be so hard on each other.'

Frolicking: Soaking up the sights, the media personality flashed a rare glimpse of her bottom tattoo in her scanty two-piece, which featured a strapless bralet and frilly briefs

The brunette has won legions of new admirers with her dedications to her fitness goals, with the star saying she's proud for proving there is 'life after 50.'

She enthused: 'I had loads of preconceptions about turning 50 when I was younger, so I think that's why I feel it's my duty to have the best time ever and to show you that there is life after 50.

'I thought I was going to be in twinsets and pearls with a purple rinse and a perm, so I'm excited that life isn't like that.

Sun protection: Maintaining the blue colour scheme of her ensemble, Davina protected her eyes from the sun in a pair of aviator reflective shades

Glowing: The Masked Singer UK judge wore her tresses in a tousled bun, while her youthful-looking complexion was on full display as she went make-up free

In the romance department, Davina - who divorced from her husband of 17 years Matthew Robertson in 2017 - recently embarked on a romance with costume designer and longtime pal Michael Douglas.

The presenter opened up about her resurgent love life last month as she talked about her relationship with new beau.

The Long Lost Family presenter said her year had been 'amazing' after she found her 'new man' Michael, 45, following her painful divorce to the father of her three children.

Having fun: Davina appeared to make sandcastles during her time on the shores

Refreshing: The Wimbledon native cooled off as she took a dip in the sea

Cheery: The Channel 4 star grinned from ear-to-ear as she enjoyed her break after her 'great' year

Heading off: The Long Lost Family star later wrapped up in a bright yellow kaftan as she left the beach

Davina told the Daily Mirror: 'This year has been amazing. I have got a new man. I’m very happy. All in all it’s been a great year. I am enjoying life so much.'

As well as her blossoming romance, Davina will join Jonathan Ross, Joel Dommett and Ken Jeong on the panel for ITV's new talent show, which originated in South Korea

The premise of the show - set to air next month - sees 12 stars disguised in elaborate costumes singing for the panel, who will test their guessing skills along with the viewers at home

When each singer is knocked out of the competition, their identity is revealed Eight of the 12 characters have been teased as: Unicorn, Fox, Monster, Chameleon, Daisy, Octopus, Duck and Queen Bee.