A tourist who snapped a photo of Scott Morrison relaxing in Hawaii claims the Prime Minister told him Australia's devastating bushfire crisis was a 'state issue'.

The man said he decided to ask Mr Morrison - who was lounging at a beachside bar - whether he would be returning to Australia 'resolve the bushfire situation'.

But Mr Morrison reportedly said the issue was out of his hands, as catastrophic blazes ravaged New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and South Australia.

The tourist told 10 News: 'His comment to me was ''no that's a state issue''.'

Mr Morrison and wife Jenny are pictured lounging at a beachside bar in Hawaii on Friday

The tourist who snapped the photo (pictured) said he approached Scott Morrison to ask if he was returning to Australia 'resolve the bushfire situation'

The picture of Mr Morrison and wife Jenny was taken on Friday, hours after the prime minister said he would return to Sydney 'as soon as can be arranged'.

'I deeply regret any offence caused to any of the many Australians affected by the terrible bushfires by my taking leave with family at this time,' he said at the time.

'I have been receiving regular updates on the bushfires disaster... As noted, given the most recent tragic events, I will be returning to Sydney as soon as can be arranged.'

The tourist suggested Mr Morrison needed to reevaluate how he handles disasters.

'He was quite happy to sit here and have cocktails served to him whilst our firefighters are doing it really hard,' he said.

'I think the man just has to have a step back and a bit of a check on himself.'

The picture of Mr Morrison and wife Jenny was taken on Friday, hours after the prime minister said he would return to Sydney 'as soon as can be arranged'. Pictured: Mr Morrison in Hawaii

Mr Morrison's Hawaiian Airlines flight touched down in Sydney on Saturday evening.

He then faced the media on Sunday morning, where he was repeatedly questioned about his secret Hawaiian getaway.

'I get it that people would have been upset to know that I was holidaying with my family while their families were under great stress,' he said at the RFS headquarters in Sydney Olympic Park.

'They know that I will not stand there and hold a hose. I am not a trained firefighter nor am I an expert like those in the next room doing an amazing job.

'But I am comforted by the fact that Australians would like me to be here simply so I can be here alongside them as they go through this terrible time... I apologise for that.'

The image of Mr Morrison sitting beside his wife was originally posted to Twitter.

The caption read: 'Scott Morrison sighted a very short time ago (Fri 20/12 7pm) by my uncle in Hawaii. Looks like he's in a real hurry to get back.'