She is gearing up to present the new BBC talent show The Search with her Little Mix bandmates as they search for the next big pop group.

And Jade Thirlwall looked nothing short of sensational as she modelled an outfit from the Little Mix Collection for PrettyLittleThing.

The singer, 26, donned a black bra with a dark green shimmering embellishment which she paired with matching trousers with a flared leg.

Stunning: Jade Thirlwall, 26, looked nothing short of sensational as she modelled an outfit from the Little Mix Collection for PrettyLittleThing

The hitmaker also wore a matching blazer as she styled her honey blonde locks styled into loose waves.

Striking a series of animated poses, Jade completed her look by adding height to her frame with a pair of heels.

Jade posed on top of an intricately designed gold-legged marble table in front of a gold framed mirror.

It's been a busy year for Jade who has been touring Europe with Little Mix and appearing on RuPaul's Drag Race UK as a guest judge.

Style: The singer donned a black bra with a dark green shimmering embellishment which she paired with matching trousers with a flared leg

And things are only going to get busier as in January 2020 production will kick off on Little Mix's new BBC talent show, The Search.

The group - Jade, Perrie Edwards Leigh-Anne Pinnock and Jesy Nelson - have insisted there'll be no gimmicks involved; namely 'no fakes or joke acts'.

'A group has ever done a show like this. And we're going to be b****y ruthless!' Jesy, 28, told MailOnline. 'We're on the hunt for the next best band, not any old s**t. I want the full package - dance, voice, everything.

'We’re not going to be nasty. We're not going to be like, "you’re s**t, get off!" But we will be honest. And there will be no joke acts. No fakes. Just raw talent.'

The format will indeed be cut-throat, as both fully-formed bands as well as individuals will be able to apply.

Outfit: The hitmaker also wore a matching blazer as she styled her honey blonde locks styled into loose waves

Glamour: Striking a series of animated poses, Jade completed her look by adding height to her frame with a pair of heels

Photoshoot: Jade posed on top of an intricately designed gold-legged marble table in front of a gold framed mirror

'You can enter as a group but we can take people out of that group. It'll be hard. And if someone doesn’t make the cut then they’re not going to get through,' Jesy went on.

Perrie, 26, added: 'Well we got passed around the place [on X Factor, where the group was formed] and it was awful.'

'It was never shown on camera. We were put in so many different groups,' Jesy elaborated.

'Our emotions were up and down all the time because of this. We all told our mums we wanted to come home.'

'But it gave us a thicker skin, made us want it more, and made us stronger. And then when we got together it clicked, it was right.'