Kim Kardashian is getting away from Southern California for a few days to enjoy the holidays with family in New York City.

The reality star took to Instagram Sunday as she and the kids walked through the Frozen 2 immersive experience at Saks.

She cut a chic winter look in a caramel snakeskin topcoat as she was spotted arriving at her hotel after the outing.

Winter chic: Kim Kardashian West cut a chic winter look Sunday in a caramel snakeskin topcoat as she was spotted arriving at her hotel in New York City

The 39-year-old wore the coat over a mint green turtleneck and a pair of sherbet leather pants.

She completed the look with a pair of brown sunglasses and some neon orange trainers.

Kim held hands with North, six, and Saint, four, as they arrived at their hotel in Manhattan.

North cut a cute look in a brown teddy jacket with a couple of pearl necklaces, as she carried a mini white Birkin.

Bold colors: The 39-year-old wore the coat over a mint green turtleneck and a pair of sherbet leather pants

Accessorizing: She completed the look with a pair of brown sunglasses and some neon orange trainers

Mama's kids: Kim held hands with North, six, and Saint, four, as they arrived at their hotel in Manhattan

Mini Birkin: North cut a cute look in a brown teddy jacket with a couple of pearl necklaces, as she carried a mini white Birkin

Blue jean baby: Saint sported an oversized bleached denim jacket paired with a printed navy blue t-shirt and baggy black pants

Flying solo: Kim returned to the hotel later in the evening by herself

The fuzz: She was greeted by a group of armed cops waiting outside the hotel

Saint sported an oversized bleached denim jacket paired with a printed navy blue t-shirt and baggy black pants.

Kim later returned to the hotel, where she was greeted by a group of armed cops waiting outside the hotel.

The brunette beauty took to her story earlier from the Frozen 2 Enchanted Forest experience at Saks Fifth Avenue.

She seemed to be just as into the immersive attraction as her kids, who could be heard shouting in amazement.

The venue was dressed in thin trees, soaked in red lighting, before Olaf led them to another area lit blue for a more winter aesthetic.

Let it go: Kim took to her Instagram story earlier from the Frozen 2 Enchanted Forest experience at Saks Fifth Avenue

Inner child: She seemed to be just as into the immersive attraction as her kids, who could be heard shouting in amazement

Winter wonderland: The venue was dressed in thin trees, soaked in red lighting, before Olaf led them to another area lit blue for a more winter aesthetic

Magic horse: She teased another part of the attraction, which featured a life-sized sparkling silver horse

She teased another part of the attraction, which featured a life-sized sparkling silver horse.

Kim was spotted the night before as she, husband Kanye, 42, daughter North and son Saint stepped out in Midtown.

The Skims mogul went bold in a silver metallic puffy jacket, paired with black leather pants.

The kids served looks as well, North wearing a black leather jacket with matching pants, and saint sporting a neon yellow tracksuit.