Martin Peters was our nemesis in the days when he played for Dagenham Schools and I played for East Ham. He would beat us on his own while playing as a centre half.

Fortunately we were on the same side when we played for Essex, London or England and we went to West Ham together. As a footballer he was unequalled. An amazing talent.

Everything came to him so easily. Ron Greenwood would come in with new ideas and training exercises and Martin would pick them up instantly.

Martin Peters set standards as a player at West Ham and there was to be no messing around

Peters (middle) was in the right place at the right time and proved it in the 1966 World Cup final

He wore every shirt for West Ham. He even went in goal once against Cardiff. He was sharp as a tack and good at everything he did.

Just look at the goals. And of course he invented the knack of being in the right place at the right time.

Like in the 1966 World Cup final when he pounced on a ricochet to score. Jack Charlton thought it was spinning towards him and would always say: "Thank God Martin was there because I wouldn't have known what to do with it."

He really was 10 years ahead of his time as Sir Alf said. What people didn't know was Martin would stand for no messing around. He never said a bad word about anyone and made no fuss but he would voice his opinion when asked. He also expected you to do what he said you should do.

And, when push came to shove, he would put his foot in as much as anyone else, just as much as some of those players who revelled in that sort of reputation.

He bought some fruit from a shop near the cafe we went to near Upton Park. He paid for it and as we were leaving the shop I nicked a piece of fruit out of his bag.

We walked around the corner near the pie and mash shop and he punched me straight in the face. I must be the only person he ever hit. There was a story about him smashing John Bond in training during a tour of Africa. The food had been awful and Bondy had taken some chips from his dinner. Martin waited until the next day and turned him over in training.

Brian Dear (left) recalls his memories after news that Peters had died arrived on Saturday

That didn't stop Bondy taking him to Norwich when he was manager and they loved him at Norwich. Just as they loved him at West Ham and Tottenham. He was fiercely competitive. We were playing golf with a friend of mine and Martin was teeing off when he stopped and asked my friend to move.

He said: "I'm sorry but you're in the corner of my eye, do you mind?" My friend said: "Blimey, you're pernickety, Martin". Martin said: "I'm not pernickety, I'm competitive."

I scored a goal against Tottenham at Upton Park where we had a corner, Martin headed it down and it hit me in the stomach and I was able to backheel it into the net. He went mad at me. "What on earth do you think you're doing?" he said. "That was going in and you got in the way."

We were a close-knit family at West Ham. Martin's house backed on to Geoff Hurst's and they were very close.

We all lived on the Country Park Estate in Hornchurch. Ronnie Boyce and Johnny Sissons lived there as well. We had all come through together. Bobby Moore was a couple of years older. We all grew up as mates and went on to achieve things.

Peters (back row, second from left) played with Dear (front row, left) while at West Ham

Martin was the first to pass his driving test and the first one of us to own a car.

He was a different person at Spurs, stepping out from the shadow of Geoff and Bobby. They had great players and he really shone in that side and became captain.

I remember him scoring four goals for them against Manchester United at Old Trafford. Not many people did that.

Above all, he was a good friend. I pulled out a copy of his book this morning. Inside, he had written '40 years a friend'. It is 60 years now. I saw him last week and I was in pieces when I heard he had passed away. Martin was a legend, a proper legend. He will not be forgotten.