Carlo Ancelotti has revealed Everton’s ambition for the future attracted him to the club.

The 60-year-old Italian, who signed a four-and-a-half-year deal to become Everton’s permanent new manager on Saturday, was unveiled to the media at Goodison Park on Monday.

“The biggest factor was the ambition of the club, the history that this club has, the tradition, the atmosphere of the supporters,” Ancelotti said.

“Also, the fact this club wants to improve. We want to be a better team, we want to compete. These were the reasons I decided to come here.”

Ancelotti, sacked by Napoli earlier this month despite leading them to the knockout stage of the Champions League, is one of the world’s most decorated managers.

He is one of only three managers to have won Europe’s elite competition three times, with Liverpool’s Bob Paisley and Zinedine Zidane (Real Madrid) the others.

“It’s true that I have managed some top teams, but it’s also true, when I was manager of Paris St Germain, the project was really good there,” Ancelotti said.

“I think here is the same. It’s not true that I only manage top teams. At the beginning (Reggiana) and then after I managed Parma, that was not a top team.

“I like a team that has ambition and a clear idea how to reach success.

Everton want to build a new stadium at Bramley Dock Moore (Everton/PA)

“Looking here for example, I went to the training ground yesterday and it is fantastic, the fact that the club wants to build a new stadium means they have a clear idea of how to improve and to have success.

“It takes time, I don’t know how long. For me it would be good to be still here when the new stadium is open. This is what attracted me.”

Everton, whose first game under Ancelotti is at Goodison on Boxing Day, are in the process of submitting a planning application for their new 52,000-seater Bramley-Moore Dock Stadium.

Ancelotti, who won the Premier League and FA Cup double with Chelsea in 2010 in his only previous managerial stint in England, would not be drawn on the sums of money that might be available for the January transfer window.

But he gave Toffees fans an idea of the calibre of players he could attract when joking about contacting Zlatan Ibrahimovic.

“Zlatan Ibrahimovic is a good friend of mine,” Ancelotti said. “He was my player. Fortunately I have trained a lot of fantastic players.

“But Ibrahimovic has finished his period in the United States and I don’t know what is his idea.

Ancelotti ruled out a move for Ibrahimovic (Nick Potts/PA)

“I have to call him. Maybe I’ll call him and (ask) if he wants to come to Liverpool to enjoy – but not to play.”

Ancelotti said he was excited about teaming up with Italy striker Moise Kean, who he tried to sign at Napoli in the summer before the teenager opted for Everton.

“We tried to buy him. He’s a really good player with a lot of talent. He showed fantastic talent last year at Juventus,” Ancelotti added.

“We have to consider he is 19 years old and every player who changes country needs time to adapt.”

Ancelotti praised the work of Ferguson (Anthony Devlin/PA)

Ancelotti, who won the old European Cup twice with AC Milan and the Champions League with Real Madrid, paid tribute to Duncan Ferguson for his role as caretaker boss following Marco Silva’s dismissal on December 6.

“I met Duncan after the (Arsenal) game. He will be my assistant,” Ancelotti added. “He’s really important for me.

“Duncan knows really well the characteristics of the players and the atmosphere at the training ground. It will be really helpful.”