Australian Survivor's Samantha Gash and Mark Wales got married on December 14, after meeting on the adventurous Channel 10 reality show in 2017.

The couple said 'I do' at The Log Cabin Ranch in Monbulk, east of Melbourne, and were joined by many of their former co-stars among the 120 guests.

'We had such a magical weekend. The ceremony was in the stables and it had a candlelit-style vibe,' Sam, 35, told New Idea magazine on Monday.

Congrats! Australian Survivor's Samantha Gash (left) and Mark Wales (right) got married on December 14, after meeting on the adventurous Channel 10 reality show in 2017

Blushing bride Sam wore designer Rachel Gilbert's $2,499 Lyla Sleeve Gown.

The plunging floor-length gown is from her most recent collection, and features long-sleeves and intricate beading throughout the fabric.

Groom Mark looked suave in a cream suit from MJ Bale, with a navy shirt and tie.

Sam walked down the aisle to Matt Corby's song Resolution, which was playing when the couple got engaged in January.

Rural: The couple said 'I do' at The Log Cabin Ranch in Monbulk, east of Melbourne, and were joined by many of their former co-stars among the 120 guests

'We had such a magical weekend. The ceremony was in the stables and it had a candlelit-style vibe,' Sam, 35, told New Idea magazine on Monday

Stunning! Blushing bride Sam wore designer Rachel Gilbert's $2,499 Lyla Sleeve Gown. Pictured: Sam with the couple's 22-month-old son, Harry

Their 22-month-old son, Harry, helped Sam walk down the aisle towards Mark.

A ferris wheel and 'naked teepees' were set up in the grounds of The Log Cabin Ranch, with many guests likening the wedding to a festival.

Jacqui Patterson, who was the couple's rival on Survivor, officiated the ceremony, with fellow co-star Jarrad Seng acting as their official photographer.

Other co-stars at the wedding included Luke Toki, Arraon 'AK' Knight, Jericho Malabonga and Aimee Stanton.

Romantic! Sam walked down the aisle to Matt Corby's song Resolution, which was playing when the couple got engaged in January

Handsome! Groom Mark looked suave in a cream suit from MJ Bale, with a navy shirt and tie

Many of the couple's guests shared pictures from the wedding on Instagram.

Co-star Jacqui joked: 'The tribe has spoken... you're getting hitched!'

Guest Sarah Davidson gushed: 'Still buzzing from your fairytale festival wedding and the amazing people we got to spend the weekend with to celebrate you.'

'Such a beautiful weekend, so much love in the air... and then there was the cheese plate,' joked guest Jennifer Sternin.

All stars! The couple were joined by their Survivor co-stars. Pictured L-R: Jarrad Seng, Jericho Malabonga, Jacqui Patterson, Mark, Sam, Aaron Knight and Aimee Stanton

Happy! Many of the couple's guests shared pictures from the wedding on Instagram

Sam and Mark found love on the reality show after the cameras stopped rolling in 2017, before welcoming a son, Harry, in March 2018.

They announced their engagement in January, while looking forward to a 'long, happy, chaotic life' together.

The lovebirds, who live in a 'peaceful country home' in Victoria's Dandenong Ranges, formed an alliance on Australian Survivor.

Samantha previously explained that their 'friendship turned into a more romantic relationship' once their season ended.

Fate! Sam and Mark found love on the reality show after the cameras stopped rolling in 2017