Victoria's longest-serving Labor premier John Cain has been remembered as a principled and reformist leader, who helped make the state the cultural and sporting hub it is today.

The state's 41st premier died on Monday, aged 88, after suffering a stroke earlier in December.

"It is with great sadness that we advise that John Cain passed away overnight," the family said in a statement.

"He is much loved and admired by his family and will be greatly missed."

Mr Cain was a state Labor MP for 16 years and led the state from 1982-90.

Premier Daniel Andrews paid tribute to the man responsible for ending 27 years of conservative government, becoming the first Labor premier since his father John (Jack) Cain.

"John Cain was an immense figure in our state, somebody who transformed our party, led us to government after 27 years in the wilderness and then achieved what has never been achieved before - (he was) able to have Labor re-elected not once but twice," he told reporters.

Mr Andrews said the introduction of occupational health and safety laws and the establishment of the Transport Accident Commission were among the former leader's greatest achievements.

"They are a lasting testament to someone of right character, someone of impeccable integrity and honesty, someone who lived his life in full accord with his strong Labor values," he said.

A state memorial service will be held in the new year following a private funeral, while Premier Andrews suggested Melbourne Park as a possible location for a more permanent tribute.

Mr Cain oversaw the relocation of the Australian Open from Kooyong to the precinct.

Former Victorian Labor premier Steve Bracks said he saw Mr Cain a week before his stroke.

"John was erudite, he was smart, he was intellectually bright as he always was, he looked fit and healthy so it's a great shock that he has now departed us," he said.

Mr Bracks said he was a politician of the highest integrity and fought for the public interest - he purchased his own stamps for personal use and also bought his own biscuits for tin in his the office.

Until recently, Mr Cain had been sitting in on the Lawyer X royal commission hearings.

Victorian Liberal leader Michael O'Brien also noted Mr Cain's reforms, including the liberalisation of shop trading hours and the establishment of the TAC.

"He was somebody who reformed his own party, somebody whose government left significant and indelible reforms on this state," Mr O'Brien said.

"His passing is a loss to Victorian politics."

Federal opposition leader Anthony Albanese said Mr Cain transformed Victoria's economy into the strongest in Australia.

"He lowered unemployment. He introduced social reform, such as land rights, which had waited far too long to be introduced in Victoria," Mr Albanese said.

Other state and federal MPs took to Twitter to pay tribute to the Labor legend.

Former Victorian Liberal premier Jeff Kennett praised Mr Cain's ethics.

"Very sorry to hear of John Cains death. Very committed Labor man and social justice advocate. As Premier of Victoria had strong views based on good values," Mr Kennett tweeted.

Mr Cain is survived by wife Nancye, daughter Joanne Crothers and sons John and James.