Tammy Hembrow was every inch the doting aunt at her niece Aaliyah's third birthday party over the weekend.

And it appeared to be a family affair, with the social media influencer sharing a rare video of her famous actor father, Mark Hembrow, 64, attending the lavish celebration thrown by his daughter Emilee.

Taking to Instagram, Tammy shared a video of Mark arriving at the party dressed in leaf-print button-up shirt while carrying a gift bag, two balls and a bundle of pool noodles to the sound of bongo drums in the background.

Family affair! Tammy Hembrow shared a rare glimpse of her famous dad Mark Hembrow, 64, (pictured) at his granddaughter Aaliyah's third birthday party over the weekend

'Where is the music coming from? I don't understand!', Tammy said through laughter.

Mark is best known for his acting roles in TV series Anzacs, starring alongside Paul Hogan, The Flying Doctors and The Adventures of Skippy.

Family and friends helped celebrate Emilee Hembrow's daughter Aaliyah's birthday with a safari-themed party.

Sweet: Tammy (R) was every inch the doting aunt at her niece Aaliyah's (L) third birthday party over the weekend

Luxurious: The Hembrow family's Gold Coast pad was decorated with African animals such as lions, giraffes, zebras and monkeys, with platters of themed food to feed hungry kids

The Hembrow family's Gold Coast pad was decorated with African animals such as lions, giraffes, zebras and monkeys, with platters of themed food to feed the hungry children.

In December 2018, Mark revealed what he really though of his Tammy's racy internet selfies.

During a Q&A session on YouTube, Tammy's sister Emilee asked her father: 'What do you think about your daughters being so public on their social media?'

'I see you all work hard': During a Q&A session on YouTube, Mark revealed what he really thought of his daughter sharing their lives on social media

'You're all good businesswomen': The father-of-three admire their daughters' work ethic, even if it means sharing race photos

He candidly responded: 'Well, it's a whole new world... I see you all work hard.'

'And, you're in professions like fashion, fitness with Tammy, Amy being, you know, such a good businesswoman,' he gushed, adding: 'You're all good businesswomen.'

Despite doting on Tammy and her sisters - Emilee, 27, Amy, 29, and Starlette Thynne, 19 - Mark expressed that every parent shares the same fear when it comes to social media.

'I think any parent is always fearful about the negative sides of social media which obviously, everyone is becoming aware of around the world and dealing with those issues,' he stated.

'I've gotta support whatever you do,' he turned around and sweetly told Emilee.