The BBC's director-general has claimed viewers still trust the public broadcaster despite furious backlash over its General Election coverage.

Lord Tony Hall praised its polling coverage and said: 'Around 27 million people in the UK came to the BBC website to find out about the election results. It was a reminder of the trust people place in the BBC.'

The national broadcaster was accused of political bias by both the left and the right in the weeks leading up to voting day.

Indeed, its political editor Laura Kuenssberg announced a Christmas break from Twitter after facing a deluge of criticism, mainly from the left, for her reporting.

Scroll down for video.

Boss Lord Tony Hall praised its polling coverage and said: 'Around 27 million people in the UK came to the BBC website to find out about the election results'

But Lord Hall, writing in The Daily Telegraph, claimed rounded criticism from across the political spectrum demonstrated that the BBC was unbiased.

He added: 'The fact criticism came from all sides of the political divide shows to me that we were doing our job without fear or favour.'

Those sentiments have not been echoed by all BBC colleagues.

Earlier this month, head of news and current affairs, Fran Unsworth said: 'I don't necessarily subscribe to the view that if we get complaints from both sides we are doing something right.'

Ms Unsworth has also suggested there needs to be stronger reinforcing of the BBC's own social media rules.

It comes after Ms Kuenssberg tweeted the false claim that an aide of Health Secretary Matt Hancock was punched by a Labour activist.

BBC political editor Laura Kuenssberg has announced a Christmas break from Twitter after facing a deluge of criticism, mainly from the left, for her reporting

The political editor tweeted that a Labour activist had punched an aide of Matt Hancock, which later proved to be false

The claim was quickly disproved by video evidence, forcing her to back down and apologise for the misleading information.

Meanwhile the BBC's North America editor Jon Sopel has been accused of revealing an anti-Donald Trump bias on Twitter.

Lord Hall added: 'Yes, of course we faced some criticism. That is to be expected as the national broadcaster. Where we can and need to improve, we will.'

Newsreader, Huw Edwards, has also previously dismissed claims of bias at the corporation, and said any such accusations are designed to cause 'chaos and confusion'.

Newsreader, Huw Edwards, has also previously dismissed claims of bias at the corporation, and said any such accusations are designed to cause 'chaos and confusion'

The News At Ten presenter said: 'You realise yet again that the real purpose of many of the attacks is to undermine trust in institutions which have been sources of stability over many decades.'

Lord Hall's comments come as questions over the future of the BBC have been raised by political figures.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson is reported to be looking into consulting on whether people who do not pay the £154.50 licence fee for watching television or BBC's iPlayer catch-up service should be prosecuted.