Ian 'H' Watkins and Matt Evers made history during Dancing On Ice's Christmas special on Sunday, when they debuted as the show's first ever same-sex pairing.

And moments after the ITV special aired, 43-year-old Steps star Ian took to Instagram to share an emotional post, in which he revealed he was brought to tears.

Alongside a snapshot of himself and Matt, 43, he wrote: 'Tonight has been emotional. I’ve cried tears of joy! Never did I think this would happen. But tonight, Matt & I have made a little piece of history!'

Making history: (L-R) Ian 'H' Watkins and Matt Evers made history during Dancing On Ice's Christmas special on Sunday, when they debuted as the show's first ever same-sex pairing

He continued: 'Thankyou for all your messages of support and for letting me be my authentic self. Thanks to @itv for championing the LGBTQ community and its ally’s.

'Now the hard work begins.. I promise we won’t let you down! #dancingonice #doi2020#samesexiceskating #lgbt #lgbtq #TeamHandMatt #HandMatt.'

A host of stars from the upcoming series, which is set to kick off in January, made appearances on the show, as well as past celebrity competitors.

Emotional moment: Moments after the ITV special aired, 43-year-old Steps star Ian took to Instagram to share an emotional post, in which he revealed he was brought to tears

Praise: Fans took to Twitter in droves to express how moved they were by having witnessed the groundbreaking moment, with some even suggesting they were moved to tears

But singer Ian and his professional skater partner Matt effortlessly stole the show as they triumphantly stepped out onto the ice together during the special.

Fans took to Twitter in droves to express how moved they were by having witnessed the groundbreaking moment, with some even suggesting they were moved to tears.

Tweeted one viewer: 'Massive #respect to you two gentlemen for breaking a barrier that needed breaking by doing this partnership in @dancingonice. Good luck to you two next January! Brilliant!'

Great to see a same sex couple to dance this series,' stated another. 'I think it will come with its criticism as viewers don’t always react well to "changes" but as a gay man myself, I see no difference. Everyone should be able to work with who they wish! Love is love!'

Stealing the show: But singer Ian and his professional skater partner Matt effortlessly stole the show as they triumphantly stepped out onto the ice together during the special

Happy: A number of viewers were thrilled to see the groundbreaking moment on their screens

Wrote a third fan of the show: 'Love this!!! It’s given me so much joy to finally see same sex partnerships normalised. Good luck guys - we will be voting for ya.'

Addressing the naysayers on the micro-blogging site, another viewer said: 'I'm a HUGE fan of Matt amazing skater and amazing bloke, I am nothing but excited for this partnership.

'I can't see why some people aren't, at the end of the day why does it matter, how does it actually make a difference to the skate?! I really think people need to embrace it.'

Before making his appearance in the ice rink with Matt, Ian appeared in a pre-recorded video trailer in which he discussed his desire to be partnered with a man.

Revelation: Before making his appearance in the ice rink with Matt, Ian appeared in a pre-recorded video trailer in which he discussed his desire to be partnered with a man

Impact: Matt said of partnering with Ian on the show, 'It's going to mean a lot to a lot of people in this country and around the world'

He said: 'Because I am a gay guy, it was always in my mind that I wanted a same-sex partner.'

Addressing his skating partner directly, Ian later told Matt: 'This journey is so, so personal and important to both of us.'

Added Matt: 'It's going to mean a lot to a lot of people in this country and around the world.'

Ahead of the pair making their debut together on the show, Matt revealed to The Sun that the pair were forced to make some changes to their routine, after Ian's private parts caused a bit of a problem.

He laughed as he said of Ian: 'His "balls" got in the way on a roll up lift. Found something with same sex partnership that may not be done. The first thing.'

Chemistry: The pair were among a host of stars who appeared on the ITV Christmas special

Ian previously teased there could be romance on the cards for the duo, as he revealed he thinks Matt is 'so handsome' during a recent episode of Lorraine.

The Steps star appeared in pre-record clip on the show from the recent launch show, with Matt and fellow contestant Love Island's Maura Higgins, as well as one of the programme's judges, John Barrowman.

Ian revealed that there is 'chemistry' between the two, before refusing to go any further as he joked Kate Thorton was 'digging for dirt' on him.

The star admitted that he insisted on having a male partner considered for his stint on the show when he attended a meeting about his appearance.

He revealed on the show: 'I had the meeting in the summer and I said if this does go ahead I would like to be considered with a male partner. For me, it's important to have someone the right gender for my sexuality.'

Candid! Ian teased there could be romance on the cards for the duo, as he revealed he thinks Matt is 'so handsome' during a recent episode of Lorraine

Cheeky: Ian revealed that there is 'chemistry' between the two, before refusing to go any further as he joked Kate Thorton was 'digging for dirt' on him

After previously being partnered with women in previous series, Matt, who identifies as gay, said: 'To be part of a production and a network like ITV and what they are championing, I feel so supported right now.'

John, who has previously taken part as a celebrity contestant and is now joining the judging panel, was quizzed on whether he will take on the 'Mr Nasty' role previously displayed by ex-judge Jason Gardiner.

He said: 'I can be harsh but I can be harsh and critical in a way that is not demeaning to a person.'

John previously said that Ian and Matt will represent him and his husband when the pair make history as the first same-sex couple on Dancing On Ice.

The Torchwood star said he felt 'so proud' to be involved in the programme this year.

Meant to be: The star admitted that he insisted on having a male partner considered for his stint on the show when he attended a meeting about his appearance

He said: 'What's great about this - with having a same-sex couple - it's finally on TV and I am so proud that I am involved in the year they are doing it.

'Two guys skating who represent me, who represent myself and my husband, so that we can sit down and rewatch it after the programme has been on. And we can look and be: 'That's us - that is how we would skate'.

'It's great that ITV are opening the doors and allowing that to happen. I know there is some criticism as to whether it is two guys and it's not two girls and it's not this...

'The fact of the matter is that it is something that is representing the LGBTQ+ community and we all have to get behind them - if they are good.'

'Right? That's another big thing,' he quipped.

'You better be good, guys. Because if you are not you are going to be letting the team down. No pressure at all - no pressure H.'