Charlie Morris, 48, co-founded Charlie Bears — a range of affordable collectible bears — in 2006 with her husband Will, 44. They live in Cornwall.

As a young girl in Leeds, my two great passions were ballet and bears. Dad used to travel to Germany for work, so he’d always bring back a bear for me and my sister. The first he gave me, aged four, was a panda. I was enchanted by this little ball of fluff.

I went on to study ballet in London, but had to give it up at 21, due to struggles with anorexia.

Charlie Morris, 48, (pictured) from Cornwall, co-founded Charlie Bears after noticing the demand for affordable collectibles

I moved home and started temping. But I’m a massive believer in fate, because this gave me the confidence to set up my first business, a teddy bear boutique, in 1998 when I was 27, before opening two more outlets.

At this point, I was selling other brands’ designs. I noticed that people would walk in and go straight to the high-end, limited-edition bears, handmade using expensive wools, mohair and alpaca. But they couldn’t afford them, so would leave empty-handed.

As a life-long bear collector, this upset me. I realised there was a gap in the market for collectible bears, which are limited in production and handmade with cheaper, yet still beautiful, fabrics.

But the timing wasn’t right: my mum got breast cancer. I also met my husband Will at this time when he came into the shop to buy a gift for his mum.

Koko, £48, charliebearsdirect.com

Three years later, in February 2006, we launched our first Charlie Bears collection, selling online and in selected stores nationwide. A few months later we got on QVC [the TV shopping channel] and the orders started flooding in.

Then, in 2013, when I was 42, I was diagnosed with stage three ovarian cancer. It had spread to my stomach, cervix and bowel, so I had to have chemo and a hysterectomy. It was terrifying. But I kept working on a collection of bears that would last my husband five years in case the worst happened. Yet, miraculously, I survived.

Today, we have a turnover of £8.7 million, and last year sold 280,000 bears. They all have slightly different facial expressions so they’re real characters.

It’s amazing, the power of the bear. I know a lot of people find solace in them; they were a huge comfort to me during my illness.

And there’s something that still makes my heart flick every time I see one, even now, 44 years after I was given my first.