Cody Simpson, 22, has sparked rumours of a rift with Miley Cyrus, 27, during an outing in New York with a Playboy model.

On Saturday, the Australian singer was seen taking a stroll with New Jersey-native pal Jordy Murray, 26.

The sighting comes amid the once-inseparable couples' absence from the limelight over the past two weeks.

Trouble in paradise? Cody Simpson (left) stepped out in New York on Saturday with Playboy model Jordy Murray (right) after Miley Cyrus shared Tweet about being 'lonely' at Christmas

Cody and Miley haven't been spotted together since volunteering at a youth homeless shelter in Los Angeles earlier this month. The pair haven't posted about each other on Instagram or commented on each other's posts, however they still follow each other on the social media platform.

Either rugging up or attempting to go incognito, Cody wore a black hooded jumper over his head as he walked alongside the blonde beauty.

The pair appeared to be in deep conversation as they wondered the streets in their warm coats and jeans.

Jordy, who is Playboy's December playmate for 2019, held a book close to her chest as she met up with the Masked Singer Australia winner.

Speaking to Daily Mail Australia on Monday, Cody's sister Alli Simpson said: 'She [Jordy] is his best friend, Ryan Mcarthy’s girlfriend of a few years. He’s visiting him for a couple days.'

Suddenly shy? Either rugging up or attempting to go incognito, Cody wore a black hooded jumper over his head as he walked alongside the blonde beauty

They go way back! Speaking to Daily Mail Australia on Monday, Cody's sister Alli Simpson said Jordy was one of Cody's best friends, and was Ryan Mcarthy’s girlfriend of a few years

American model Jordy moved to Australia solo in her late teens, and attended university Down Under.

It was in Australia where she began her modelling career at 18.

She has since been photographed by esteemed photographer James Macari, and became the official model for luxury fitness boutique Bandier.

Jordy also owns her own raw vegan food line called Alchemy.

'A sad Christmas song': Miley shared a selection of Tweets less than 48 hours earlier about being 'lonely' over the festive period

Will they be spending Christmas together? It's unclear if Cody and Miley will spending the festive season in separate states in the US

'In ways that still feels relevant': Miley spoke about feeling lonely during the holiday season

Interestingly, Miley shared a selection of Tweets less than 48 hours earlier about being 'lonely' over the festive period.

Sharing a 'sad Christmas song' she penned a few years ago, Miley claimed: 'Even with a house full of family and friends I still felt alone... In ways that still feels relevant.'

The Slide Away hit-maker also reflected on the time she wrote the piece: 'Was feeling like s**t cause I couldn’t be with the one I loved.'

Over! In December last year, Miley wed Liam Hemworth in an intimate ceremony in Tennessee - they split seven months later after their on-and-off relationship since 2009

In December last year, Miley wed Liam Hemworth in an intimate ceremony in Tennessee.

She split with the Australian actor in late July after sharing an on-and-off relationship for almost 10 years.

Miley debuted her relationship with singer Cody in October.

Daily Mail Australia has contacted Miley Cyrus, Cody Simpson and Jordy Murray for comment.