At first glance, not much has changed. Ten years ago, South Africa were world champions, Leinster and Toulouse were leading the charge for European glory and English rugby was coming to terms with controversy.

As this decade draws to a close, the Springboks are once again top of the global pile, the same sides from Ireland and France are in the hunt for another continental conquest and Saracens are the new villains, following their salary cap infringements. Back in 2009-10, Harlequins were trying to cope with the reputational damage caused by the Bloodgate saga.

However, rugby has undergone a profound overhaul from 2010 to 2020. This will go down as the decade when health and safety came to the fore as rugby realised it had become too damaging for its own good. The spectre of concussion has been the dominant issue and — thanks to a campaign led by Sam Peters and the Mail on Sunday — it has forced officials to focus on player welfare.

Australia centre Samu Kerevi voiced his frustration after being penalised at the World Cup

Considerable progress has been made. However, the efforts to rid rugby of danger has led to soul-searching, angst and divisions. Barely a week goes by without a current or former player lamenting that ‘the game has gone soft’, before being shouted down.

Crackdowns on aerial challenges and contact with the head have led to torrents of yellow and red cards being shown for relatively innocuous ‘offences’.

There is no way back, but the sport is in an uncomfortable limbo. During the recent World Cup, Australia centre Samu Kerevi was penalised when his forearm made contact with the head of Wales playmaker Rhys Patchell. Afterwards, Kerevi said: ‘The way rugby is going, I might as well join the NRL (Australian rugby league).’

It was a high-profile example of a struggle to find a balance between protecting the protagonists and retaining the identity of a sport founded on physical confrontation and aggression. Frankly, all the reforms have reduced risk but not eradicated it, while also increasing the instances of farcical injustice.

Exeter have emerged as a major force after winning promotion to the Premiership in 2010

Players are now too big and powerful for their own good. It has become such an attritional game that premature retirements and injuries are all but impossible to avert. There is a solution — reducing the number of players on the field, perhaps to 12 a side. That would lead to an enforced change of body-shapes. But there is no appetite for such a radical step.

Aside from the safety crusade, the last decade has brought other significant developments. At club level, Exeter have emerged as a force, after winning promotion to the Premiership in 2010. The Devon club have successfully challenged the established order and been at the heart of an overhaul of the domestic hierarchy. The Chiefs and Saracens have formed a duopoly, while traditional powers such as Leicester and Bath have been in decline.

At international level, Argentina were brought into an expanded Rugby Championship, but the status quo has largely remained intact, as evidenced by the rejection of Agustin Pichot’s plans for an annual Nations League, to include Japan and Fiji. Turkeys don’t vote for Christmas and certain home unions don’t vote for Six Nations relegation, which is why up-and-coming Georgia have been kept out in the cold and the Pacific islands are still criminally undervalued.

There has been a mad dash towards new markets such as the USA and Japan, which reflects how the game now prioritises financial gain. At least it meant this year’s World Cup in the Far East opened up a new frontier.

The old north-south divide has more or less vanished, despite South Africa — rather than England — being the ones who ended New Zealand’s era of supremacy. The Springboks’ success served as a welcome revamp of the global pecking order, but economic forces have been a major factor in the greater prosperity of the northern teams. This in turn created the Project Player system — shopping abroad for future Test talent — which has been a scourge on the sport, by blurring the lines of national allegiance. The imminent increase in the residency qualification period from three to five years should go some way to reducing this trend.

Rugby is approaching a watershed as private equity firm CVC are swiftly buying control of the sport, in the hope of making a major profit from the sale of rights around the world.

It is torn between safety and its enduring emphasis on size and power. It is torn between expansionism and its post-colonial, old-school-tie heritage. The search for a modern identity goes on.

CIPRIANI AND ASHTON MAKE IT INTO MY TEAM OF THE DECADE

Any attempt to pick a best side from a 10-year period is ludicrously difficult and often too formulaic. Should those who only featured for a brief period be excluded on principle? Does a stockpile of titles trump personal brilliance? Are Test feats automatically more meaningful than exploits at club level? Is substance always more important than style?

Frankly, if this line-up was purely founded on show-us-your-medals merit, it would be an All Black team, through and through. So to hell with that; this is a very personal choice – players who have either been imperious in their position or just glorious entertainers who have illuminated the sport.

Ben Smith (New Zealand): A genius full-back. Blessed with remarkable talent and vision. He could find space in a straightjacket.

Christian Wade (England): Grew weary of rugby’s size obsession so left for NFL. A box-office star who could run rings around giants.

Manu Tuilagi (England): Injured far too often, but when he is fit and at full throttle, defences go into panic mode. A smiling juggernaut.

Wesley Fofana (France): Another plagued by injuries and bereft of titles, but the Clermont centre has magic in his dancing boots.

Chris Ashton (England): Blazed a trail at Test level as a try-scoring phenomenon and still delivering the Ash Splash now. Prolific.

Danny Cipriani (England): Unfulfilled at international level but a master sorcerer who has enthralled audiences with his creative class.

Aaron Smith (New Zealand): Other scrum-halves have come and gone, but the Kiwi has dominated his position for much of his career.

Tendai Mtawarira (South Africa): The World Cup-winning ‘Beast’ has been a cult icon for his scrum prowess and formidable strength.

Schalk Brits (South Africa): Surely the best import the Premiership has ever had, who reinvented the hooker’s role at Saracens.

Tadhg Furlong (Ireland): In the second half of the decade, he has been a rampaging bull of a prop, with the handling of a centre.

Alun Wyn Jones (Wales): An all-time talisman for the Lions and his country – relentless, influential and ultra-professional.

Leone Nakarawa (Fiji): Other locks have even greater CVs, but in an era of stifling defences, the offload king has stood apart.

Juan Martin Fernandez Lobbe (Argentina): A leader, a warrior and a huge talent, who deserved his European glories with Toulon.

Sergio Parisse (Italy): At his peak, he was perhaps the best player in the world – brilliant and defiant in an out-classed national team.

Richie McCaw (New Zealand): The sport’s GOAT (Greatest Of All Time). Lifted the Webb Ellis Cup in 2011 and 2015. Humble legend.