Pep Guardiola spun on his heels, arms waving uncontrollably and menace in his eyes. With the match level at 1-1, Manchester City's frenzied high press had forced Kasper Schmeichel into booting possession out of play.

Guardiola went mad, whipping up the crowd, dancing down the touchline with everything but his baton. For the first time in a long time, he appeared genuinely enthused. City were reacting, all too aware of how crucial this night was in the context of their strange season. The Etihad snarled; Leicester could not cope.

There was bite, a nastiness you do not always associate with this ground. It was an evening on which they simply had to send some sort of message, and City did so with a united front. Kevin De Bruyne's solo and spontaneous celebration behind the goal after setting up Gabriel Jesus for the third said it all about how much this meant.

Pep Guardiola wants Man City fans to create more noise at the Etihad to inspire his team

Guardiola says City fans must be more vocal when his side are struggling in difficult periods

Guardiola put on an impassioned display of his own during his side's win over Leicester City

It was putting Leicester back in their place while also reminding commentators that if anyone is to stop the Liverpool juggernaut, it will be City.

Guns were stuck to and that paid off in style. Everything and everyone bobbed in unison, from Guardiola to his players to his fans.

'I had a feeling that always they were there when we played good but I want more when we struggle a little bit, like at 0-1,' Guardiola said after City battled back from Jamie Vardy's opener.

The Spaniard says his team deserve the best support for their achievements in recent years

Kevin De Bruyne raised the Etihad atmosphere when he set up City's third goal on Saturday

As is often the way with him, 'more' was delivered with real feeling, conveyed like the man stumbling out of the area's iconic bar, Mary D's, moments before kick-off.

'The players deserve it for what they've done in this period. I need my fans. Mum and dad are always there in the bad moments with their kids, not (just) the good ones.

'We need them when the opponent is good and when we are struggling, to become a better team.'

There is certainly a point to be made here and Guardiola is not just talking about Premier League games.

The Etihad can often feel like attending the theatre — for myriad reasons, from price of ticket to style of football — yet on nights when it really matters, like this, it must feed off its players.

This was the sort of evening that would leave the mighty Real Madrid quaking when they arrive in March. More is required if City are to edge closer to Liverpool.

Riyad Mahrez scored a wonderful solo goal against his former club in a vintage solo display

The departure of Mikel Arteta (right) to Arsenal has affected the mood at City this week

Sergio Aguero ran the shooting drills after the game which Arteta would previously have done

'I thought the spectators were incredible, but we played so good and when that happens our fans are always behind us,' Guardiola said. He spoke of it being 'unrealistic,' for City to even contemplate toppling Liverpool from this juncture, but the way his stadium swayed made it feel as if anything is possible.

This was not only a response generally, but one to the week. The loss of No 2 Mikel Arteta will be felt by the squad and it is the manager's responsibility to make sure that does not weigh them down.

As starts go, beating the insatiable Leicester was a good one.

Goalkeeping coach Xabi Mancisidor waited to greet each player off the field. Assistant Rodolfo Borrell engineered the pre-match rondos. Substitute Sergio Aguero, back from injury, was the man running the shooting drills.

Everybody pitched in and Guardiola will need more than that in the intervening months, given he does not plan to recruit a replacement for the new Arsenal manager just yet.

They also have the small matter of two games in 46 hours over Christmas which has annoyed Guardiola. They host Sheffield United after a demanding trip to Wolves and Guardiola has complained to the Premier League.

De Bruyne hit out at the Premier League after the game for City's hectic Christmas schedule

City will play two games inside 46 hours and are likely to rotate players over festive period

'Normally it would be impossible to play, but it's the schedule and we just have to find a way to manage but we'll see what happens,' said De Bruyne — Saturday's undoubted man of the match.

'Hopefully everybody feels all right for these two games, but obviously we're going to have to change a few players.'

Guardiola is often at his best when flippant and there was a cheer to him after this win.

His mood is helped when City carry out his exact instructions and that cannot be said of many games this term. There is, however, a lingering resentment as his mind cast back to a 2-2 draw with Tottenham in August. The VAR disallowing Jesus' late winner still rankles and he believes that set a tone for the months to come.

'I still don't understand how they disallowed that goal, honestly,' Guardiola laughed.

'The players from Tottenham said, "Why was it disallowed?" and even (Hugo) Lloris was laughing. When you are not in the high level the little details can make a difference. When the opponent is better I'm the first guy to say, but in specific moments in the season, when we are not on top... next season will be better, I'm pretty sure of that.'

Guardiola says his side will be much better next season after a disappointing campaign so far

Rodgers says his side must learn to play at a higher level for longer against better teams

Now City are hoping for a helping hand from Leicester on Boxing Day.

Brendan Rodgers needs a reaction against Liverpool, the Club World Cup champions — but conceded his young team are yet to put a sustained performance together when up against the top teams.

'Listen, we know exactly where we're at,' Rodgers said. 'We're a young squad that wasn't even expected to get in the top six. Even though we took the lead, I don't think we deserved to be in front but we were and then we couldn't sustain it after that. I think the key thing for us is to make sure we can bring our game for long enough.

'We didn't do that, especially in the first half, and if we can do that and we still lose then we have to accept the better team won. But we just have to make sure that we play to our level.'