A first-time mother looks unrecognisable after a 'horrific' photo of her taken last Christmas inspired her to drop six stone.

Kate Gibbons, 27, from Ludlow, Shropshire, suffered from pre and post-natal depression which led to excessive snacking on biscuits and chocolate, causing her weight to soar to 15st 10lbs.

As a new mother, she would shy away from social situations and refuse to have her photograph taken with Louie, now 13 months, but when she allowed one snap, it changed everything.

The photo taken on her son's first Christmas last year was a turning point for the trading executive to stop her bad eating habits.

Now thanks to the the Cambridge Weight Plan, she is now a healthy 9st 8lbs, and has vowed to never eat 3,000 calories per day again.

Kate Gibbons, 27, from Shropshire looks almost unrecognisable after a 'horrific' photo inspired her to lose an incredible six stone with the 1:1 Diet by Cambridge Weight Plan

The mum-of-one said: 'Whilst pregnant I piled on four stone, but I didn't lose the baby fat as I was suffering with PND and would comfort eat.

Kate recalled how she felt as new mum, saying: 'It was the worst time ever - you are meant to instantly love your baby and want to show him off.

'I loved him, but I didn't have the rush of emotions that I was supposed to, and I wanted to stay indoors with the curtains closed.'

But when her partner John Hoggs, 29, begged her to have at least one photo with Louie last Christmas, she came undone.

The first-time-mum suffered from pre and post-natal depression which led to excessive snacking causing her to put on weight

Kate's partner John Hoggs, 29, begged her to have a photo with their son, Louie, last Christmas which was her turning point. (Pictured: Kate and her partner John after her six stone weight loss)

'A lot of people have complimented me and mentioned how 'big' I was before, but it still upsets me as I wasn't in a good place last year.' (Pictured: Kate on her weight loss journey)

'I burst into tears when I saw myself on the photo, I couldn't believe it was me.

Kate admitted: 'After sobbing, I went on to eat 3,000 calories to make myself feel better which was my dinner, selection boxes, biscuits and anything else I could put in my mouth."

What Kate Eats In a Day: BEFORE Breakfast - Two slices of white bread with butter and jam with a cup of tea Mid-morning snack - Tea and half a pack of biscuits Lunch - Sandwich or bowl of soup with two slices of cheese on toast Dinner - Microwave curry or microwave lasagne meal Snacks - Family size chocolate bar or pack of biscuits. NOW Breakfast - Two Weetabix with half a banana and skimmed milk Lunch - Tuna salad and piece of fruit Dinner - Chicken stir fry or home made soup with crackers Snacks - Yogurt or fruit

After the Christmas festivities, Kate signed up to the 1:1 Diet by Cambridge Weight Plan and hasn't looked back since.

'The Cambridge Weight Plan has helped me change my lifestyle for the better,' she said. 'I have naturally dropped to 9st 8lb as I am eating healthier meals that I enjoy.'

She added: 'The photo made me determined and I wouldn't allow any sweet treats to touch my lips.

'I wasn't comfortable in my own skin; I love fashion and it upset me that I could only fit into leggings and a baggy t-shirt.'

Kate said she'd 'tried diets before' but never found one to be successful because 'there was always room to cheat', admitting she 'needed something stricter.'

Kate admits she is now more confident than ever and no longer feels like everyone is looking at her weight.

She said: 'A lot of people have complimented me and mentioned how "big" I was before, but it still upsets me because I wasn't in a good place last year.'

Now feeling positive and happy, Kate said: 'I can't wait for Louie's second Christmas and I will certainly not be hiding from the camera.'

The mum admits she is now more confident than ever. She said: 'I can't wait Louie's second Christmas and I will certainly not be hiding from the camera.'

Kate said she'd 'tried diets before' but never found one to be successful because 'there was always room to cheat', admitting she 'needed something stricter.'



