They met on the set of Carpool Karaoke together back in August.

And now, Zooey Deschanel, 39, and Property Brother's star Jonathan Silver, 41, are spending their first Christmas together as a couple.

On Sunday, the HGTV star took to his Instagram to share a photo of himself and his leading lady as they pose with the cookie-version of themselves as holiday elves.

Christmas cookies: Zooey Deschanel and Property Brother's star Jonathan Scott are getting into the holiday spirit with life-like cookies of themselves. Silver shared the picture on Sunday afternoon on his Instagram

In the photo, the two appeared to be all dressed up as they posed with their cookies with their names on them.

The New Girl actress looked stylish while sporting a red sweater and a pearl necklace while leaning into her boyfriend.

Jonathan also looked his best with his hair slicked back and wearing a navy button up shirt.

'When you surround yourself with amazing, creative people...the result is magical :)' he caption the photo along with another photo of the two of them posing with David Copperfield and a custom Guess Who game.

Creative friends: Zooey and Jonathan are pictured above posing with David Copperfield. Jonathan added this calling his friends 'creative'

New game: The couple got crafty and made their own version of the popular Guess Who game

Just one month after the two met, it was announced that the 500 Days of Summer actress was separating from her husband of four years, Jacob Pechenik.

Jacob and Zooey share two children together, their daughter Elsie, aged four, and son Charlie, aged two.

'After much discussion and a long period of contemplation we have decided we are better off as friends, business partners and co-parents rather than life partners,' the two said in a joint statement to People.

'We remain committed to our business, our values and most of all our children. Thank you for respecting our privacy at this time.'

Date night: The two stepped out a few days back for the highly anticipated Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker red carpet premiere

Zooey and her new man have been linked since and have been spotted out at various events together following her divorce.

Back in November, he joined her on the red carpet for the first time for the Critics’ Choice Documentary Awards.

Scott has also been joining the star on the road for her Very She & Him Christmas Party tour.

Throwback: Zooey took to her social media to share a throwback to a time when she played Jovie in the popular Christmas movie, Elf