As if the monstrous knock-out itself was not a chilling enough warning to the current masters of the heavyweight universe, Daniel Dubois had this to say when asked if he was worried about the opponent he had just rendered unconscious on Saturday night: 'Rather him than me.'

South London's heir apparent to Anthony Joshua, Tyson Fury and Deontay Wilder did add later: 'Course I'm happy he's OK now' — which Kyotaro Fujimoto seemed after being pumped full of oxygen for several long, anxious minutes while prostrate on the floor.

But then Dubois added: 'That's the risk of the game we're in.' Indeed it is, as all brave enough to climb through the ropes acknowledge. Only especially so when sharing a ring with someone possessed of such shock-and-awe firepower.

Daniel Dubois (left) floored Kyotaro Fujimoto to set himself up for a mouthwatering 2020

The Dubois jab is starting to be compared with those of several legends — Larry Holmes by no means the least among them — and that ramrod left dropped Fujimoto early in the second round.

That is now a weapon unto itself.

The right, which ended any argument seconds later, is a nuclear force and Dubois stated the obvious: 'When I land with the right, it's goodnight.'

The Japanese proved no match for Dynamite who made it 5 KOs from five fights this year

Were AJ, the Gypsy King and the Bronze Bomber listening to the thunder of that blow followed by the crash as Fujimoto's head hit the canvas?

It sounded loud enough to be heard in Las Vegas, where Fury and Wilder are due to meet in February's rematch.

Just in case, Dubois told them: 'I'm coming for you.'

Probably before the end of 2020, in which he expects to rise to mandatory challenger for the WBC, WBA, IBF, WBO, IBO and lineal titles which those three hold between them.

That will require a couple of hefty wins to add to the 14, including 13 KOs, which comprise his professional record as he turns just 22.

The 22-year-old is expected to face a tougher level of opponent with a Joe Joyce fight lined up

Dubois' promoter Frank Warren said his man is likely to fight at the O2 Arena in April 2020

The first could be in April at the O2 against silver Olympian Joe Joyce, who bids for the European heavyweight title against Marco Huck in Germany next month.

Promoter Frank Warren says: 'We have offered a lot of money to the likes of Dereck Chisora to meet Daniel, with no response.

'But Joe is a big man and if he beats Huck I think we can convince him this would be a great, old-fashioned, domestic battle for the British, Commonwealth and European titles.'

Then the world? Dubois: 'Soon as they like.'