It's a beach day for Gabrielle Union and Dwyane Wade as they spend their Christmas vacation in Maui, Hawaii.

The two megastars stepped out with their daughter Kaavia, aged one, while splashing in the ocean with their family.

Gabrielle, 47, and Dwayne, 37, were joined by other family members including one of Dwayne's three sons Zion, aged 11, for the vacation.

Beach day! Gabrielle Union and Dwyane Wade stepped out for a day at the beach on Sunday while out in Maui with their family ahead of the holiday

The fam: Dwyane Wade and Gabrielle dip their fit in the ocean while showing their daughter the ocean

The Bring It On star showed off her slim figure in a bright orange bikini while showing her daughter the ocean.

Her two-piece number had a touch of white to her bottom as she added a tan straw hat for her day on the water.

Kaavia sported a stylish little one piece swimsuit with ruffles along the straps.

Beach attire: The Bring It On star showed off her slim figure in a bright orange bikini while showing her daughter the ocean

Having fun! Dwyane's son Zion joined the family of three for their island getaway

Details: She also wore a tan straw hat to shield herself from the sun

Daddy's girl: Dwyane later held the little one as mom came over to check in

After their beach excursion, the family traded in their bathing suits for some pajamas.

Both Mr. and Mrs. were later spotted donning matching red Christmas pajamas as the family later rejoined for a Christmas photoshoot on their hotel lawn on the island.

The professional basketball player appeared to be in good humor as he hid behind a tree in between shots.

His attire: He sported a pair of teal swimming trunks and a black baseball cap

Father and sun: Dwyane and his son share a laugh while on the beach

Kaavia came into the world via surrogate a year ago marking the first child for Gabrielle and the fourth for Dwayne.

'A LOVELY DAY. We are sleepless and delirious but so excited to share that our miracle baby arrived last night via surrogate and 11/7 will forever be etched in our hearts as the most loveliest of all the lovely days,' the couple wrote on their Instagram accounts announcing the news of their new addition.

Dwyane also shares Xavier, aged five, Zaire Blessing, 16, and raises his nephew Dahveon Morris, 17.

Pajama party: Later in the day, the family traded in their swimming suits for Christmas pajamas

Matching: Gabrielle and Dwyane rocked matching red long sleeve pajamas while having a ball on the lawn

Sweet: The couple hung out by a tree as the photographer geared up for the shot

The actress has been vocal about her struggles with conceiving in her book We're Going To Need More Wine back in 2017.

In her memoir, she revealed she had 'eight or nine miscarriages.'

'For three years, my body has been a prisoner of trying to get pregnant — I've either been about to go into an IVF cycle, in the middle of an IVF cycle or coming out of an IVF cycle,' she penned in her book.

And while the pair married back in 2014 she also noted that she and her husband 'remain bursting with love and ready to do anything to meet the child we've both dreamed of.'

Gangs all here! Dwyane hid behind a tree while calling out to the family in between shots

Big smile: Dad rolled up his sleeves on the festive pajamas while joining the family for holiday photos