Joe Root will trust the honesty of his flu-ridden bowlers before he decides whether to throw them into the Boxing Day Test without a single ball sent down in anger on tour between them.

Stuart Broad, Jofra Archer and Jack Leach were all unable to take the field for the final day of preparations against South Africa A — even though this three-day warm-up was downgraded from first-class status in an attempt to accommodate them.

Now, after making another brief appearance in the Benoni nets on Sunday while England's attack toiled against a batsman known as KP, the recovering trio will try to prove in practice in Centurion over the next two days that they are fit for purpose.

Stuart Broad has been among the trio who have been troubled by flu in build up to first Test

'It's a tricky one,' admitted England captain Joe Root of the gamble. 'It has to be managed really well but we're on it. We're trying to make sure we give them the best chance possible.

'Those guys are very frustrated to be in this position but they'll do everything they can to be ready and that's all you can ask. It's very rare for guys to go into a Test carrying an illness so for them it's a case of making an honesty call.

'If they feel they can get through five days as close to a hundred per cent as possible they'll tell us.'

Jofra Archer was unable to take the field for the final day against South Africa A on Sunday

Broad looks best placed of the three to line up in Centurion at the start of this four-Test series, not least because of his admirable determination and a desperation to play. 'I'm getting there,' said the old competitor on Sunday after bowling and batting in the nets.

'He's certainly got more experience,' added his captain. 'Stuart has probably got through games and managed his body by being savvy if he's had a niggle.'

That means England may well save Archer until the second of back to back Tests in Cape Town rather than risk both seam bowlers who have spent most of their first week of this trip ill in bed.

They look certain to throw Jimmy Anderson, the pick of their bowlers again here, back into the fray after a summer of persistent calf problems.

'We've also got to look at the balance of the side and see what we want to go with on the surface at Centurion,' said Root.

'You want to make sure they can really let themselves go and get through 20 overs in a day, 25 if they really had to. It's a fine art but there's trust on both sides and I'm sure guys will make the right decision.'

It looks increasingly certain England will go in with an all-seam attack even if Leach, who also suffered illness in New Zealand, makes a full recovery before Thursday.

It was a non-spin policy they introduced in Hamilton in the final Test and look likely to replicate it now, particularly as leg-spinner Matt Parkinson looks a long way from being ready at this level.

Joe Root is ready to trust the word of his bowlers ahead of the first Test against South Africa

'It's certainly an option,' admitted Root, who has looked England's best spinner here so far. 'We'll make a decision when we've looked at the wicket and seen the conditions.'

So that means, if Anderson and Broad are fit to play and Archer is not risked, Chris Woakes and Sam Curran will both play in a five-seamer attack.

Both had a tough workout thanks to a century from the KP in question — Keegan Petersen rather than an unlikely comeback for Kevin Pietersen. Now it will be a question of what happens in practice before England can declare their hand.