He bravely opened up about his struggles with his mental health earlier this year.

And on Monday, actor Lincoln Lewis spoke out about the importance of mental health awareness.

In a new blog post on the 2020 Mentality Project, the 32-year-old wrote: 'I'm a naturally bubbly & energetic person who has always loved everything about life, being around people, being outside, running around etc.

'I'd chosen not to confront what was weighing me down': On Monday, Lincoln Lewis (pictured) spoke out about the importance of engaging in conversation to raise mental health awareness

He continued: 'So whenever I have my quiet or bad days they can be easily picked up by those who know me.

'That was the main trouble when my once bad days had become an everyday thing – because I'd chosen not to confront what was weighing me down mentally, which then trickled into my emotional state and then finally, my physical state.'

Lincoln went on to say while he's always been quick to offer a shoulder to lean on, he didn't want to 'burden' those around him.

Dark times: In a new blog post on the 2020 Mentality Project, Lincoln wrote: 'I never wanted to be a burden on those around me. So each and every day, I would put on my smile walking out of my bedroom'

'I'd chosen not to confront what was weighing me down mentally, which then trickled into my emotional state and then finally, my physical state,' Lincoln penned in a new post on his Instagram page

In September, the former Home and Away star revealed he had hit 'rock bottom' with his own mental health over the past two years. At the time, he never wanted to leave his home and gained weight from 'eating like sh*t'.

While he's in a 'much better place' now, the actor struggled to talk about his 'powerless' and 'broken' feelings because he didn't want to 'seem like a sad case'.

'You're having negative thoughts, you're also not wanting to go out with mates, then all of a sudden you feel crappier because you wish you were with your mates, but instead you feel alone,' he told news.com.au

Dark times: In September, the former Home and Away star revealed he had hit 'rock bottom' with his own mental health over the past two years. At the time, he never wanted to leave his home and gained weight from 'eating like sh*t'

Elsewhere in the interview, he said: 'There's a true strength in actually confronting something that's holding you back and it's okay to lean on others for help.

'It's not weak to speak up, it's actually a sign of strength and taking the initiative to make a change.'

Thanks to his new diet and workout regimen, Lincoln is now encouraging men to confront and open up about their mental struggles.