Miguel Almiron has struggled for goals and words in his time at Newcastle. Here, he finally found both.

After scoring for the first time since his £21million arrival in January, the Paraguayan did not need his translator's aid to communicate his relief. 'Thank f*** for that!' he screamed at Steve Bruce before disappearing into his manager's bear hug, leaving the field having blasted the winner seven minutes from time.

'He said it in his broken English,' Bruce said, 'and I replied with, "You're not wrong!". I then crushed him I think.'

Miguel Almiron finally broke his goalscoring duck as Newcastle beat Crystal Palace 1-0

For Almiron, though, this belated entry on the scoresheet must represent more than a mere moment, as good a moment as it was in front of the Gallowgate End.

It is no good him popping up next Christmas with his second goal, not in a team where the shortcomings of the forwards this season have been masked by their free-scoring defenders. That will not last.

Almiron continues to divide opinion. There are those on the inside who applaud his work-rate, enthusiasm and value to the team. And those on the outside who measure a forward's contribution in goals and assists, of which he now has one of each.

Manager Steve Bruce was delighted for the 25-year-old who was emotional after the game

'My staff have been tireless with him,' Bruce said. 'He smiles every day, trains as if it's his last and is a joy to work with. Above all, he is a bloody good footballer. But he needed to add that goal and he has that now.'

Goalkeeper Martin Dubravka was jumping around his penalty box after seeing his team-mate volley home from Andy Carroll's towering knock-down.

'Finally he has scored. Finally!' said Dubravka. 'Miguel plays an amazing role for us. We all know how important he is.'

Not as important as Dubravka, it must be said. Newcastle remain the only team in the division not to have more than 50 per cent possession in a game. Dubravka again saved his side here.

Bruce will argue that is what goalkeepers are there for. Forwards are also there to score, and that is why Almiron must have a better ratio than one goal every calendar year.