An hour after the final whistle at Goodison Park, Duncan Ferguson bumped into Freddie Ljungberg under the main stand. The two caretaker bosses shook hands and exchanged a few more pleasantries. Job done. Time to hand over to the new men.

Towards the end of this excuse for a spectacle, Ferguson had wrapped his arm around the Arsenal man in the technical area. ‘We were both happy with a draw,’ explained the Scot. ‘I told him, “I hope the whistle goes — let’s just get it finished!”’ Ferguson wasn’t alone. Up above them in the directors’ box, Carlo Ancelotti and Mikel Arteta could have been forgiven for studying their new contracts for an escape clause.

There was ample evidence here why Ancelotti and Arteta have been hired in mid-season to turn around the fortunes of these clubs. Afterwards, the two new managers paid a visit to the respective dressing rooms and spoke to their players. The common thread in what they said was hard work and fighting spirit, but there was very little else to admire in a drab goalless draw.

Everton and Arsenal played out a boring goalless draw at Goodison Park on Saturday

On the face of it, Arteta (right) appears to be inheriting a more difficult situation after he was appointed on a £5million-a-year contract on Friday. Arsenal may be four places and as many points above Everton in the Premier League table, but this is a team in need of major surgery. For a man beginning his first managerial job, the Spaniard could hardly have chosen a bigger task.

It was made clear by Arsenal’s team selection at Goodison Park. A line-up with four teenagers and an average age of 24 was Ljungberg’s response to a limp defeat to Manchester City, although you have to wonder how much input Arteta had in that decision after witnessing Arsenal’s performance from the City bench in his penultimate game as Pep Guardiola’s No 2.

Mesut Ozil wouldn’t have made the squad even if he had been fit, said Ljungberg. That is just one of the pressing issues for Arteta, who must also resolve the long-term futures of Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Alexandre Lacazette. He also needs to work out if his two best strikers can play together.

New Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta watched on from the directors' box after his appointment

Veteran manager Carlo Ancelotti saw his new side register no shots on target during the game

MATCH FACTS AND PLAYER RATINGS Everton (4-4-2): Pickford 7; Sidibe 7.5, Holgate 6, Mina 6, Digne 6; Sigurdsson 7, Davies 5.5, Delph 6.5 (Keane 72, 5.5), Iwobi 6 (Tosun 12, 6; Kean 80); Richarlison 6, Calvert-Lewin 6. Subs not used: Stekelenburg, Baines, Coleman, Bernard. Booked: Davies, Sigurdsson. Manager: Duncan Ferguson 6. Arsenal (4-2-3-1): Leno 6; Maitland-Niles 6, Chambers 6, Luiz 6, Saka 6.5; Torreira 6.5, Xhaka 5.5; Nelson 5.5, Smith Rowe 6 (Willock 66, 6), Martinelli 7; Aubameyang 6 (Lacazette 78, 6) Subs not used: Martinez, Mavropanos, Mustafi, Guendouzi, Pepe. Booked: Saka, Chambers, Willock. Manager: Freddie Ljungberg 6. Referee: Kevin Friend 7. Attendance: 39,336.

Aubameyang missed the only clear chance of this game, while £72million record signing Nicolas Pepe was left on the bench. Arteta must instil some leadership in his new charges, creativity in midfield and solidity into a once fabled back four. Ljungberg may have signed off with Arsenal’s first clean sheet in 15 games, but they head into Christmas with a goal difference of minus three. And Arteta must do it all with limited funds in the transfer market. Just as well, then, that his early impression on the players has been a positive one.

‘We’re all excited to work with him,’ said Calum Chambers. ‘He came in on Friday. The message was: be brave, take responsibility and work hard for each other. We just need to get our identity back. It will take time but I know he can get that out of us.’

That is one area at Everton where Ancelotti might need to lean on Ferguson. The 60-year-old Italian — confirmed as manager an hour before kick-off having agreed a four-and-a-half-year contract on a salary of £11million — could have ended up at Arsenal, but doesn’t know either club as well as Arteta, 37, who played for both.

Both coaches will feel they have plenty of work to do to turn around the fortunes of their teams

Still, Ancelotti is a statement signing for Everton and will have significant backing from owner Farhad Moshiri to revive the club. He takes over a team that have responded well to Ferguson in the four games since he stepped up to replace Marco Silva, even though they didn’t have a shot on target here. The caretaker reacted as triumphantly to securing a point against Arsenal as he did after a draw at Manchester United a week earlier and the win over Chelsea.

‘It was emotional because I’ve put so much into it,’ said Ferguson, who will assume a place in Ancelotti’s new set-up. ‘The manager will have his own style of play, but I’ll be there for any help he needs. What he will get is a loyal fella who wants to learn as much he possibly can. He’s going to be my teacher.

‘It’s an incredible appointment isn’t it? One of the biggest names in football ever is at our club. It just shows how ambitious we are. We all dream, don’t we?’