A Brazilian, Roberto Firmino, scored the winner, which was fitting. Brazilians made this competition. Brazilian passion, Brazilian enthusiasm, Brazilians travelling in their tens of thousands and creating pulsating cup final atmospheres in what might otherwise be soulless bowls, given FIFA's penchant for selling the Club World Cup out to the highest bidder.

From here, it may be different. Liverpool in Qatar have won the hearts and minds of sceptics by treating the crown of world champions as a prize to be fought for, and treasured.

Jurgen Klopp talked of his respect for this competition growing with every second and it was there on the team sheet released an hour before the game. Virgil van Dijk, despite illness, played.

Liverpool's squad ensured they are history makers after they became the world's No 1 team

Liverpool lifted the Club World Cup for the first time after beating Flamengo 1-0 in extra-time

'I've got doping now and it's going to take two pages just to list all the medicines,' Van Dijk said after the game. 'But I tried and did everything possible to play.'

So did Liverpool. They gave it all, as always under Klopp, across two matches and three and a half hours to defeat the champions of both Americas and lift the Club World Cup.

And that is what the critics think. That it's two games and then a trophy. But it's not. For to reach here, Liverpool first had to play Manchester City, Manchester United, Tottenham, Arsenal, Chelsea, Burnley, Everton, Leicester, Newcastle, Crystal Palace, Bournemouth, Watford, West Ham, Brighton, Huddersfield, Southampton, Swansea, Stoke and West Brom.

The results against those teams got them into the 2018-19 Champions League. Once there, they had to face Paris Saint-Germain, Napoli, Red Star Belgrade, Bayern Munich, Porto, Barcelona and Tottenham again. And then, and only then — once victorious — could they be part of the Club World Cup. So it's not two matches. It's 53.

The campaign that ended gloriously in Doha on December 21, 2019, actually began on August 12, 2017, with a 3-3 draw at Watford. So Liverpool afforded that mammoth endeavour the respect it deserved.

And physically, on Saturday evening, they threw the kitchen sink at it, no different to the fightback against Barcelona last May or the late winner against Aston Villa in the current Premier League procession.

Liverpool players showed their delight by posing for a series of pictures with their latest trophy

Jurgen Klopp's side prioritised Club World Cup despite trophy previously being disregarded

'I watched the game against Monterrey and I knew it was going to be hard,' Van Dijk said. 'We had Flamengo fans next to our hotel and they were partying all the time, so we knew Brazil was living for them to win this.'

Maybe one day England will be similarly captivated at the thought of having the world champions. It is probably some time off yet but in 2021 comes FIFA's proposed expansion to 24 clubs and a competition that spans three weeks: a World Cup, but for clubs.

Greater thought should be given to location, too. The Club World Cup, and the Intercontinental Cup that preceded it, has always been the play-thing of the super-rich or super-sponsors. Toyota financed it in Japan for many years, most recently it has bounced around locations in the Gulf, Doha and Abu Dhabi.

This devalues it, making such a prestigious competition appear little more than another of FIFA's corporate cash-ins. The Club World Cup returns to Doha next year and then, with bells and whistles, is rebooted in lovely China. No wonder it gets a bad rep. The real World Cup is no less commercially driven, but at least it journeys to some of the greatest football nations. That is what the Club World Cup should do.

It is this that makes it appear a jamboree, unworthy of comparison to a sincere, established domestic competition, such as the League Cup. So credit Liverpool for recognising the potential for glory in a genuine world championship for clubs.

It was fitting that Roberto Firmino (middle) scored the winner against Brazilian opposition

Maybe it was because their squad includes several Brazilians, natives of a country that values the Club World Cup. Maybe it is because Klopp has energised this group and Liverpool's remarkable form this season is feeding off the furious desire to win, win and win again. Maybe it was because the Anfield honours board has very few blanks, but victory in the Club World Cup is one of them.

Maybe it was the simplest reason of all: that if you fly 3,000 miles, give it your best shot.

'We didn't just come here to have fun, but to return as world champions,' Joe Gomez said. 'This team has that mindset of adding to our achievements, like we did by winning the UEFA Super Cup.

'I think the importance of this tournament will continue to grow. How often are you going to get this opportunity? I think one day we'll look back and realise what a special team we were involved in. We were buzzing to win this trophy.'

It was a statement seconded by Andy Robertson, trophy in hand, medal around his neck, words spilling out 10 to the dozen, much as he plays.

'We're world champions, we'll be world champions until this time next year at least, and we might not be able to say that again for the rest of our lives,' he said.

'Everyone at Liverpool knows how hard it is to win the Champions League, and you have to do that just to be here. We have Brazilians in our squad and technically they're incredible — and Flamengo had a whole team of them. I think we won because in extra time we looked fresh, they looked tired and I don't think they could deal with our intensity.

FIFA has been criticised for flogging the tournament to the highest bidder in previous years

'If they had won there would have been parties on the street. In England, people are probably just getting on with their lives. But maybe this will change a few perceptions and maybe more English teams will win it, and that would be good because firstly it would mean English teams are winning the Champions League.'

'We are Liverpool — this means more' is the latest branding around Anfield, and it is fair to say it irritates the hell out of their rivals.

Flamengo took roughly 15 times as many fans to Qatar as Liverpool — how can it have meant less to them? Yet Liverpool have not once shied away from admitting their ambitions.

'We say, "We are Liverpool — this means more", and that might not make sense if you're not a Liverpool fan,' said goalkeeper Alisson, 'but as a team we are making history. Liverpool have history, but we are making new history.

'With this, we put our names again in the history of this great club. And we have another big goal: to win the Premier League and defend our Champions League title. We are always thinking: next game.'

And while that may not mean more — Manchester United won the Premier League title, the first all-English Champions League final and then the Club World Cup in 2008 — there is a relentlessness about Liverpool this season that captivates. In Qatar, they fought to the end because they cared about becoming world champions. They cared as much as the boys from Brazil. Does that mean more? It certainly means something.