David Tennant has discussed becoming a father for the fifth time after he and wife Georgia welcomed a baby in October.

The actor, 48, enthused he'd 'give up any night's sleep' to see his nine-week-old smile during an appearance on The Jonathan Ross Show's Christmas special - set to air on Tuesday.

Screen star David also detailed his upcoming festive plans as he shared he and his actress partner, 34, will have a 'five minute celebration' for her birthday, which falls on December 25th.

Delighted: David Tennant has discussed becoming a father for the fifth time after he and wife Georgia welcomed a baby in October during The Jonathan Ross Show's Christmas special

The Doctor Who actor - who also shares 17-year-old Ty, Olive, eight, Wilfred, six, and Doris, four, with Georgia - admitted that while raising five children is 'quite a lot', his finds parenthood 'great'.

He gushed: '[I have] five [children now] it’s quite a lot, it’s a sofa full! It is great. It’s a lot of work but there’s nothing like it really.

'The baby is nine weeks old now so you’re just getting that thing where you look and get a smile back. You’d give up any night’s sleep for that.' The couple have yet to reveal the gender or name of their new arrival.

On his Christmas plans, the Hamlet star revealed he'll be staying at his west London mansion with his nearest and dearest, and admitted he'd rather be in the English chill instead of sunny beaches for the annual occasion.

Doting parents: The actor, 48, enthused he'd 'give up any night's sleep' to see his nine-week-old smile (pictured with wife Georgia, 34, in August 2018)

Private personal life: The couple have yet to reveal the gender or name of their new arrival (their fifth child pictured in November)

Happy family: The Doctor Who actor also shares 17-year-old Ty, Olive, eight, Wilfred, six, and Doris, four, with Georgia (pictured in September)

David joked: '[I’ll be] at home! I don’t get the idea of going away, it doesn’t work for me. The idea you’d go and sit on a beach at Christmas, it’s wrong isn’t it!

'Shouldn’t it be cold and a bit miserable, shouldn’t you be under the duvet waiting to hear sleigh bells in the snow?!'

'Christmas is about the kids. We stay up just past midnight on Christmas Day when all the kids are in bed and we’ll have a five minute birthday celebration [for Georgia].

Low-key: The screen star also detailed his festive plans as he shared he and his actress partner, 34, will have a 'five minute celebration' for her birthday, which falls on December 25th

Family first: He admitted that while raising five children is 'quite a lot', his finds parenthood 'great' (pictured on the show with Rita Ora)

Number five: Georgia announced the news with a picture of her husband leaving hospital with their newborn (right) alongside an image of David's Good Omens co-star, Michael Sheen (left)

'Then you’re like, the kids are going to get up in 20 minutes so we need to get some sleep!'

On proposing to the Merlin star on her birthday back in December 2010, he admitted Georgia was left confused as he wrapped up her engagement ring in a series of boxes.

The DuckTales voiceover artist explained: 'I wrapped up a big box in Christmas paper and there was another box inside that and another inside that. She didn’t get it.

'It was weird. She was going through [the boxes] by box 10, she still hadn’t figured out what I was doing. It was great, she opened the last box and it worked, she said "Yes" thankfully!'

'Shouldn’t it be a bit miserable?' On his Christmas plans, the Hamlet star admitted he'd rather be in the English chill instead of sunny beaches (pictured with Rita and David Oyelowo)

The thespian let slip their exciting pregnancy news whilst recording The Late Late Show with James Corden.

Host James, 41, brought up the news on his show, saying to David: 'We were just talking backstage, this is blowing my mind. You have four children already, your oldest is 17.

'You just told me you and your wife, the lovely Georgia, are expecting your fifth child.'

David – who adopted Georgia's son Ty in the same year that the couple married in 2011 - then admitted their growing family has become cause for concern in their eldest son, who is now giving his parents 'lectures on birth control'.

The Good Omens star said: 'I know! Five is a lot. What's really weird about it is we're now getting lectures on birth control from our 17-year-old son. And that's definitely meant to be the other way around.

'He's like "Come on, do I need to teach you the basics?" It's mental. It's a lot.'

THE JONATHAN ROSS SHOW, CHRISTMAS EVE AT 9PM ON ITV.