The image of Martin Peters in a pristine white Tottenham shirt beamed from the giant screens and Alan Mullery's mind flashed back almost half a century to the day when one of England's World Cup heroes first arrived at White Hart Lane.

'It always seemed a very strange move to me,' said Mullery who stood with the Spurs legends in residence to lead the pre-match applause for Peters, who died on Saturday at the age of 76.

'Jimmy Greaves was moving the other way, to West Ham, and here were two of the great footballers of their day changing clubs. I was very surprised West Ham let him go. I was surprised we got him to Spurs.

Alan Mullery (right) has paid a warm tribute to former Tottenham teammate Martin Peters (left)

Mullery (with trophy) captained Spurs to 1972 UEFA Cup glory alongside Peters (third from left)

'And I wondered why Martin wanted to leave West Ham when Bobby Moore and Geoff Hurst were still there. But of course we were delighted to have him with us at Tottenham. He was a wonderfully talented footballer.'

It was March 1970 and England were preparing to defend their world title in Mexico. Mullery and Peters would star for Sir Alf Ramsey's team and scored the goals which put England 2-0 up against West Germany in the quarter-finals before the collapse and defeat in extra-time.

With 30-year-old Greaves valued at £50,000 it meant Peters, four years younger, went into the record books as Britain's first £200,000 footballer.

It was a seismic transfer and many of those who knew him well thought he went on to produce some of his finest football during five years at Spurs, where he flourished and matured into a leader.

'His ability was excellent,' said Mullery. 'He was a good trainer, very skilful and he would score 15 to 20 a season from the middle of the park. He went about his job in the right way, did his job and went back to his family.'

Peters (far right) and Mullery (second from right) were part of England's 1970 World Cup squad

Mullery (left) has joined several Spurs icons in sharing memories following Peters' (right) death

Sir Geoff Hurst (centre) said ex-team-mate Peters (L) never got the recognition he deserved

These are the recurring themes when it comes to Peters. As a footballer, he was, to borrow Sir Alf Ramsey's famous phrase, 'ahead of his time'.

He was intelligent, tactically astute and unruffled with an innate ability to influence the game from midfield, with an incredible ratio of goals per games from midfield. He is one of only two Englishmen to have scored in a World Cup final.

'An opponent to be respected and admired,' said Sir Bobby Charlton. 'As a teammate he was someone I could trust completely to do his job and I am proud to have shared that great day with him.'

As a man was polite, upstanding and respectful. 'Absolute gentleman,' said Harry Redknapp, a former West Ham team-mate. 'He was quiet, well mannered… very modest, a family man.'

For many, Peters will always be synonymous with West Ham, the club where he started his career and was a teammate of Bobby Moore and Geoff Hurst. The three of them are cast in bronze on the corner of Green Street.

He joined West Ham from school and made his first team debut on Good Friday in 1962 in a 4-1 win against Cardiff City. He established himself in the team the following season but was lost his place in the shake-up by Ron Greenwood after an 8-2 defeat against Blackburn on Boxing Day 1963.

Peters did not take the decision without question. When asked Greenwood for a reason he was told he hadn't played well and replied: 'Was I the only one?' He was in the team as they won the European Cup Winners' Cup at Wembley and, of course, broke into the England team ahead of the World Cup finals in 1966.

'Martin never had the recognition he deserved,' Hurst told Sportsmail in 2017. 'He's always been underrated and still is. His goal in the World Cup final could easily have been the winner. Apart from a couple I got. In one respect, it would have been nice for him to have that acclaim because he deserved it. He was a fantastic player, a natural footballer who was totally and utterly devoted to the game.'

He was nicknamed 'the Ghost' for his ability to drift stealthily into the penalty area and apply a clinical finish, as he did so memorably in the World Cup final.

'The ball didn't always come to him but when it did, bang, he put it away,' said Hurst. 'When you look at the film of Martin after his goal in the final you can see him flicking his fingers out. He said the exhilaration was like an electric current running through his hands.'

Peters was a footballers' footballer, admired by those who played the game for his ability and his professionalism. And his indifference towards the fame it started to deliver during his time at the top.

Peters scored England's second goal in the 1966 World Cup final victory over West Germany

Peters pictured carrying the World Cup trophy after England's famous 4-2 win at Wembley

He had supreme technical quality with both feet and in the air, elegance and an incredible stamina. His close friend Brian Dear recalls a goal in a 4-2 win against Nottingham Forest at Upton Park as a moment which encapsulated his brilliance.

Peters cleared a Forest corner with a header and Johnny Sissons collected the ball and sprinted out of defence. Sissons carried the ball the length of the pitch and the only West Ham player to keep up was Peters who arrived just outside the penalty box to meet the cross with a crisp volley which whistled into the net.

He scored all types of goals and appeared in every position for West Ham, including once in goal against Cardiff and they produced a team photograph with the head of Peters superimposed upon the shoulders of each player.

At the age of 26, his legendary status was secure by the time he moved to White Hart Lane and he made an instant impact, scoring with a header on his Spurs debut against Coventry.

Peters helped Tottenham win the League Cup twice and the UEFA Cup and became club captain when Mullery departed for Fulham in 1972.

Peters, pictured here with his wife Kathleen in 1966, was a modest, family man

Tottenham and Chelsea players paid tribute to Peters with a minute's applause on Sunday

He also made positive impression when he was lured to Norwich by former West Ham team-mate John Bond for £50,000 at the age of 31, and played on for another five years, making more than 200 appearances and was twice voted the club's player of the year.

Peters finished his playing career with a best-forgotten season at Sheffield United. It started in a role as player coach to Harry Haslam and ended as player-manager as the Blades slumped into the fourth tier for the first time in their history.

He left football to work in insurance but returned to serve both West Ham and Spurs for many years in ambassadorial capacity, meeting and greeting in the corporate areas in his own unobtrusive style. He joined the Tottenham board of directors in 1998.

Always impeccably turned out when on club duty, often down to the details of a tie pin and a pocket square.

Peters was diagnosed with Alzheimer's and stepped away from public life as his condition worsened although he has never been forgotten at West Ham or Spurs, as they proved with an emotional tribute on Sunday.