In the league of gentlemen inscribed in football legend as Moore, Hurst and Peters, the last-named was the foremost in the matter of discretion.

Better to be seen but not heard. That was the stern counsel most lads of our generation received from our fathers as we grew up in London's East End.

In the case of Martin Peters, not only was he moderate of verbal expression but also barely visible on the playing field which was his working habitat.

Without Martin Peters' goal, there would have been no World Cup glory for England in 1966

Captain Bobby Moore holds the World Cup trophy aloft after beating West Germany 4-2

That was the secret of his success.

Not even the Germans, those masters of planning who were so meticulous in its execution, noticed Peters as he stole among them to snaffle the supreme moment of his immaculate life.

Without that second goal in the World Cup final of 1966 there would have been no extra time in all the drama and tension which shredded the nerves of most everyone except the West Ham triumvirate.

No Geoff Hurst hat-trick to remain unique to this day in the annals of this pinnacle of sport.

Geoff Hurst completed his hat-trick by scoring twice in extra time to help England win the final

Peters (L), Moore (M) and Hurst (R) were great friends and read each other's mind on the pitch

Former Spurs man Peters was impossible to mark and nicknamed The Ghost by his team-mates

No ice-cold moment of control and clarity in which Bobby Moore shut out the bedlam of Wembley and launched his club-mate towards the climax of that achievement. No World Cup for England. Still not. Not even this solitary glory.

Germany's late, late second goal would have been their winner, not the equaliser. England would have traipsed home wreathed in dejection. The players to a wake, not that champagne sparkling celebration in Kensington's five-star Royal Garden Hotel.

Not that Peters sipped more than a glass of the bubbly. Once they had raised that toast and gone on to the balcony to show the Jules Rimet Trophy to the madding crowds in the High Street below, most of the team melted into the liquid embrace of a West End night.

Not our Martin. He took tea with his wife.

Moore, Hurst and Peters read each other's minds on a football pitch. That mutual understanding was a vital essence of the team that Alf built to conquer the football world.

THE OTHER ENGLAND 1966 WORLD CUP HEROES Gordon Banks 1937-2019 Goalkeeper. Famed for a stunning World Cup save from Pele in 1970. Died in February of cancer. Helped Stoke win League Cup in 1972 and lost an eye in a car crash that year. George Cohen 1939 – Right back. Played for Fulham from 1956 to 1969, making 459 appearances. Sold his medal which was bought by Fulham. Ambassador for dementia charities. Jack Charlton 1935 - Centre back. Brother of Bobby played 629 times for Leeds. Managed Middlesbrough, Sheffield Wednesday, Newcastle and the Republic of Ireland. Bobby Moore 1941-1993 Captain, died from bowel and liver cancer. West Ham and England legend. Won 108 caps. Managed Southend, Oxford City and in Hong Kong before becoming radio pundit. Ray Wilson 1934–2018 Left back. Died last year suffering from Alzheimer’s. Played for Huddersfield, Everton and Oldham before calling it a day in 1971 when he became an undertaker. Alan Ball 1945-2007 Midfielder. Died of a heart attack. Joined Arsenal in 1971 for British record of £220,000. Managed Blackpool, Stoke, Portsmouth, Southampton Exeter and Manchester City. Nobby Stiles 1942 – Midfielder. Played every minute of 1966 World Cup. Spent 11 years at Manchester United before spells at Middlesbrough and Preston. Suffers from dementia. Sir Bobby Charlton 1937 – Attacking midfielder. Played in four World Cups, winning 106 caps. Man United player from 1956-1973. Joined the board in 1984 and has been connected to the club ever since. Roger Hunt 1938 – Striker. Won two League titles and an FA Cup with Liverpool, scored three goals for England in 1966. After his retirement in 1972 he worked in family haulage business. Sir Geoff Hurst 1941 - Striker. Scored a hat-trick in the World Cup final. Played from 1959 to 1972 for West Ham then had three years at Stoke. Managed Telford, Chelsea and Kuwait SC. Sir Alf Ramsey 1920 – 1999 Manager. Played for England, Southampton and Spurs. As manager turned Ipswich into English champions. England manager 1962-1974. Suffered from Alzheimer’s and cancer.

They were great friends, too. So similar of habit in their immaculate dress — jacket and tie, if you please — their courtesy, modesty, quiet charm, time for everyone.

All cut from working-class cloth, as it used to be woven from the hard graft and rough-hewn material which characterised true men of the people. Real role models, light years beyond some posturing celebrities of today's game. Genuine to a man.

But by nature Peters was a man ever-so slightly apart. He would gladly go with the others for a beer at the pub or a glass at the wine bar. Invariably he was the first to pull up the velvet collar of an overcoat styled to his tall, slender, elegant figure and make for home.

Family first. That will be a comfort now to Kathy, who was as close to Tina Moore and Judith Hurst as their boys of that golden summer of '66 were to each other.

Only Sir Geoff is left. And barely half the team of history makers. Each passing of Moore, Alan Ball, Ray Wilson, Gordon Banks and now Peters has come as a poignant reminder that it is more than half a century since they captured the hearts of this nation.

Peters, pictured with wife Kathleen in 1966, was a genuine role model and family man

The late great Sir Alf Ramsey (right) said Peters (left) was '10 years ahead of his time'

Sir Alf Ramsey is long gone. Another Essex East Ender who turned to the West Ham academy of fine football, headmaster Ron Greenwood, for the axis of his revolutionary wingless wonders.

Now Peters. In his seasons laden with goals from midfield at the Hammers, Spurs, the Canaries of Norwich, the Blades of Sheffield United — and England — he proved virtually impossible to mark.

The Ghost, they called him, as he materialised from nowhere into scoring space. For defenders, it was like trying to grasp mist on a winter's evening.

'Ten years ahead of his time,' Ramsey called Peters. He was even more than that. He was a football spirit like no other in the centuries of the game.

He takes his leave, cut short at 76 by Alzheimer's kept as caringly disguised as his passing and movement.

Discretion was always the better part of his valour, of which there was also much to admire in the Honourable Martin Peters.