After the most perfunctory of post-match hugs and their condemnation of the racism in the stands there was very little else for Frank Lampard and Jose Mourinho to agree upon.

Mourinho accused Antonio Rudiger of cheating to get Son Heung-min sent off and Lampard claimed Tottenham goalkeeper Paulo Gazzaniga should have been dismissed for a dangerous high tackle on Marcos Alonso.

The bromance which prospered when they were together at Chelsea is dead and they are firmly entrenched on opposite sides of a bitter London rivalry in pursuit of the same goals.

Frank Lampard (right) and Jose Mourinho (left) are now bitter rivals in a fierce London rivalry

Lampard was annoyed by Mourinho's mischievous post-match snipe about Chelsea slipping easily back into a 3-4-3 formation they perfected by Antonio Conte.

'I'm not trying to clone anyone's system,' snapped Lampard. 'Half the players weren't even there. Conte's system was an incredible one that won the league with Chelsea. The way we play and the message I give is different. It was more about whether this can be a system that helps us defensively and offensively against Tottenham, with the way they play.

'That was my choice to play it, not whether players understand it. Having said that the players took the plan on incredibly well.'

Mourinho joked Antonio Rudiger must have broken his ribs in the clash with Son Heung-min

Son was sent off after kicking out into Rudiger's ribs but Mourinho did not agree with the call

On the matter of Rudiger's reaction to a kick into his side from Son which led to a red card for the South Korean, Mourinho joked that the Chelsea defender must have broken his ribs.

Lampard hit back: 'It was a red card. I don't know how much he's supposed to make out of it.

'I think Son is a great player and from the outside looks like a great person. But sometimes in football you have instinctive moments. It happened, it was a bit of a reflex.

'Maybe sometimes in a game where you're having it really tough and it's going against you a little bit and I think it was one of those moments. I will not have any words said about how Toni Rudiger dealt with that.'

Lampard claimed Gazzaniga was fortunate not to be sent off for a foul on Alonso which resulted in a penalty which gave Willian the chance to score his second in a 2-0 win which eases Chelsea six points ahead of Spurs.

Lampard celebrated joyously after claiming a famous win for the Blues at their bitter foes

'The penalty should have been a red card, he has flown at him,' said Lampard, who celebrated long and hard in front of the away fans after the final whistle.

'We've waited a long time through a week's training to be able to work on what we wanted to do today so that's been great. That's not just me. It's not just about me, it's about the staff and the input.

'We spoke a lot this week. We worked with the players on the pitch. So for me the reason to get so excited was not to look like we've actually accomplished anything because we haven't. We play Southampton in a few days and we need to worry about where we're at in May.

'But I think for the players to feel how they should feel after that performance and for the fans to see what they can do when you're absolutely at it in all senses is a big deal. Now, can we be consistent? Can we keep reproducing?'