Cristiano Ronaldo basked in the acclaim as he played for Juventus against Lazio in Saudi Arabia on Sunday, presumably unaware that the game — Italy's Super Cup — was jeopardising that fat salary of his.

BeIN Sports, the Doha-based broadcaster currently pumping $550million (£423m) into Serie A — the league's most lucrative TV rights deal — is incandescent about a decision to take the game to Saudi, which since its blockade of Qatar has stolen beIN's content by setting up a pirate TV station.

BeIN is ready to terminate the Serie A TV deal, which would be commercially disastrous for Juventus and potentially terminal for other Italian clubs.

Cristiano Ronaldo's large salary was jeapordised by Italy's Super Cup being in Saudi Arabia

Sky FIFA chat shared with old pal Keys

Eyebrows were raised at Sky after a Gianni Infantino interview.

Sky Sports News chief reporter Bryan Swanson interviewed the FIFA president alongside Richard Keys, who left Sky Sports in 2011 following accusations of sexism.

Keys, now lead football anchor for Qatar-based beIN Sports, has never got over his Sky departure. Last month he insisted the behaviour of himself and co-commentator Andy Gray 'is the sort of thing that goes on in the workplace and dressing rooms'.

Sky say the interview was pooled by FIFA and that they had no control over who was present.

Ramprakash to take up public school role

Mark Ramprakash is to turn his back on international and franchise cricket to take up a role at Harrow School.

The former England batting coach is to become director of cricket at the public school in January. Ramps, 50, went to a comprehensive in Harrow and the move, which is not expected to interfere with his media commitments, may raise eyebrows given his left-wing slant on politics.

Meanwhile, Ramprakash will be part of Sky's Debate programme which will pay tribute to Bob Willis during the first Test in South Africa, which starts on Boxing Day.

Sports Agenda understands the show will look back at Willis's career as a player and commentator and will feature classic clips and stories. Willis's funeral is on Monday.

Former England batting coach Mark Ramprakash is to take up role at Harrow public School

UEFA make Shakhtar Donetsk blooper

UEFA appear to have inadvertently settled the Ukraine-Russia conflict.

European football's governing body sent out a press release for the Europa League draw last week which labelled Shakhtar Donetsk, who play Benfica, as a Russian club.

Donetsk (in Ukraine) has been the scene of some of the worst fighting, and Shakhtar have been forced to play their matches in Kharkiv, 100 miles to the west.

No pre-match pint at Oldham

There were bizarre scenes at Oldham on Saturday when the club attempted to ban their own fans from entering a bar at the ground for a pre-match pint.

Oldham's Dubai-based Moroccan owner Abdallah Lemsagam — whose tenure has seen attendances fall off a cliff following relegation to League Two, a shedload of managers and the arrival of a succession of useless overseas players — has fallen out with a fan-led group who are operating one of the stands at Boundary Park.

As a result, the club stationed a pair of minders and stewards on the door to the bar before their match with Crawley in a bid to stop stopping anyone without a match ticket from entering. Officials say they did so for health and safety reasons, although fed-up supporters would argue over the health and safety benefits of owning a ticket these days.

Oldham owner Abdallah Lemsagam (right) has fell out with fans and sacked several bosses

Rashford pays visit to homeless shelters with his mum

There is much to admire on and off the field about Manchester United forward Marcus Rashford.

Last week the Manchester lad spent a night visiting homeless shelters with his mum in a city plagued by the problem. Rashford, 22, also visited the Francis House Children's Hospice.

Meanwhile, boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer turned up at United's staff Christmas party down the road at the other Old Trafford. He mingled and took part in a getting-to-know-you style quiz with women's boss Casey Stoney.

Colchester objected to free tickets for schoolchildren scheme

It would appear that charity begins at home for Colchester United. The Essex side went to Old Trafford for a lucrative Carabao Cup tie last week. Their hosts have been handing out free tickets to schoolchildren for some cup fixtures.

However, League Two Colchester — for whom a share of the gate receipts would be vital — objected to the scheme. Determined to continue with the policy, United gave out free tickets but paid their opponents their share of what the price would have been.

More than 30,000 local youngsters have benefited from the initiative.

Wenger comments over Ozil used by Chinese propaganda channels

Does Arsene Wenger know he has become a stooge for the Chinese state with his declaration that Mesut Ozil must 'accept the consequences' of his condemnation of the disgraceful treatment of China's Uighur Muslims?

Reuters' video of Wenger saying this in Doha last week has been widely used by the nation's propaganda channels, such as state TV.

Arsene Wenger (pictured) said Mesut Ozil must 'accept consequences' of China criticism

Poor Plymouth fans journeyed 266 miles for no football

Spare a thought for the Plymouth fans who had already made the 266-mile trip to Macclesfield when the game was postponed on Friday evening.

Pilgrims boss Ryan Lowe invited those who had travelled to the team hotel and presented one youngster with a signed shirt.

No minute's silence for Peters at Watford v Man United

Sadly there was no minute's silence or applause for Martin Peters at Sunday's Watford versus Manchester United match.

Fortunately at Tottenham's clash with Chelsea later on Sunday afternoon there was a rousing ovation for the club's old boy, who died on Saturday aged 76.