The lead up to Christmas day is magical, especially when you have children. Their starry-eyed faces, the decorations, carols in the park, the excitement and their pure joy and belief in Santa Claus.

But now the man in the red suit has come and gone, the presents have been unwrapped, the food has been devoured and the hype of December 25th is over for another year, leaving you with just one question...

What do I do with the kids now?

Thankfully, Zone Bowling has got you covered, providing the ultimate fun day, all under the one roof, for big and little kids alike!

Keep the little guys happy: With activities to keep all ages entertained, everyone will love Zone Bowling

Now offering special school holiday deals, the value couldn't be better - and let's admit it, when you're trying to entertain the kids for weeks and weeks, value for money is king!

When you enter the Fun Zone this summer, you'll find hours of entertainment all in one spot - there's no wasting time in transporting the tribe from place to place (probably the most tiring aspect of a family day out).

But that's not the only drawcard. Keep reading to find out why Zone Bowling needs to go to the top of your school holiday fun list!

1. FUN ZONE PASSES

Zone Bowling has two special school holiday 'Fun Zone' passes for you to choose from.

School holiday fun: The Mega Fun Zone Pass and the Mini Fun Zone Pass has something for everyone

The Mega Fun Zone Pass for $29.90 will get you: two games of bowling and/or laser tag; shoe hire; a $10 cafe voucher (for all those coffees you'll need to keep energised); an $8 return voucher for another day and five arcade games.

Alternatively, the Mini Fun Zone Pass, for $22.90, will get you: two games of bowling and/or laser tag; shoe hire; an $8 return voucher and two arcade games.

With one game of bowling priced from $13.90 to $16.90, the Fun Zone passes give you serious value for money... and will get you the most out of an entire day.

2. ONE STOP SHOP

One of the biggest time wasters on holidays is having to go from location to location for all your different activities.

Something for everyone: Big and little kids alike will be entertained all under the one roof

There's absolutely no need for that at Zone Bowling, because the whole family can have fun under the one roof: Bowling for the little guys, laser tag and arcade games for the teenagers of the house and a relaxing cafe for parents (unless you want in on the action, that is).

And think of not only the time you'll save by not going here, there and everywhere, but also the money you'll save on parking tickets, venue entry and everything else that comes with it - leaving more time for family rivalries over a game or two.

3. THE FOOD

You're all bound to need fuel to keep that bowling arm going strong at some point in the family day out.

Got allergies? No need to worry as Zone Bowling caters to everyone's needs for the perfect lunch or dinner time treat

The menu at Zone Bowling will quash any hunger pangs with its fresh and exciting meals. Plus, as a special school holiday offer you can get $1 Paddle Pops or upgrade your Pop Top drink to a milkshake with any Kids Meal purchase for only $2!

And there's no need to worry if anyone in the family has allergies, as there are a number of options for anyone who is gluten-free, dairy-free or nut-free.

Food is serious business!

4. PARTY PLANS

If your child has a birthday during the school holidays, why not organise a party at your local Zone Bowling?

The team make the (often stressful) party experience seamless, entertaining and most importantly, easy for the parents!

Give your kids a party they'll remember in the exclusive Zone Bowling party room

You'll have a dedicated host to make sure the party runs smoothly and you can even celebrate in an exclusive party room. Invitations, games and activities, and food are all included so you barely have to do a thing.

With so many party packages to choose from, your kids and their friends will have a day to remember.