2019 feels like it started just five minutes ago, but in one short week we say goodbye to a year that brought us many unique looks in beauty; some that had us doing a double take and then some that were simply swoon-worthy.

With everything from brightly coloured tresses to dramatic red carpet eyeshadow, our favourite celebrities took it up a notch in 2019.

Remember when Kim Kardashian gave us all a lesson in how to pull off the ultimate 'wet look' in that Thierry Mugler dress for the Met Gala? Talk about beauty at its finest.

From Kim Kardashian's 'just showered' wet look, to Lizzo's insane handbag, 2019 delivered some of the best celebrity beauty looks ever

And who could possibly forget when Lizzo went full on glamour at the AMAs with a the most insane handbag we've ever seen!

Before we ring in the new year and the new trends that come with it, it seems only fitting to reflect on the year that was.

Keep scrolling for a look at the nine most defining beauty looks of 2019. Strap in.

1. Lady Gaga and her baby blues

Coming off a major 2018 in which Mother Monster starred in her very first feature film A Star Is Born, she started the year with a bang and absolutely slayed at the 2019 Golden Globes.

Sporting baby blue locks for the occasion, Gaga's hair was swept into a curved top knot, and even matched her puffy-sleeved frock. It will go down in history as one of the best, most iconic Globes looks of all time.

Mother Monster: Lady Gaga owned the Golden Globes for more than just her award with those baby blue locks turning heads too

Fancy getting Gaga's look for yourself?

Achieve a similar look on your pre-lightened or light blonde hair with LIVE Colour Boost Shampoo Blue. Simply massage into wet hair instead of your normal shampoo and leave in for up to 5 minutes, for beautiful blue pastel hues that will last until your next shampoo.

2. Billie Eilish goes neon green

2019 was also the year that saw neon hair have a real moment, and music young gun Billie Eilish put a grungy spin on the trend with bright green roots, giving us major 2000s vibes.

Revealing the look in July, Billie kept her chestnut brown ends to create a striking look.

Neon time: Going from blue to grey to black, Billie Eilish debuted her neon green roots via Instagram in July

It's not the first time the star had experimented with colourful hair either - previously sporting blue and grey locks - but this is definitely her most daring, and deserves a spot on the list of 2019's defining beauty moments.

Feeling bold? For a similar colour statement, try LIVE Colour Ultra Brights Sea Mermaid on your pre-lightened or light blonde hair.

3. Demi Lovato switched up her hair colour... again

Demi Lovato seemed to work her way through the entire rainbow of hair colours this year, with her dip-dyed, fiery pink ends being her best look so far.

Staying on theme, when she showed off her new look via Instagram (a requirement for celebrity beauty reveals) she also showed off pink eyeshadow and nails, because when you go all out, you go all out.

Dip dye: Demi Lovato gave herself a dramatic change without all the effort by dip dyeing her ends a fiery pink for an easily changeable look

Dip-dying your hair is easier than you might think. If you've already got light or bleached blonde tips, channel your inner Demi with Schwarzkopf's LIVE Colour Ultra Brights Watermelon Burst - an almost identical colour match!

4. Yara Shahidi rocks her 'fro

Yara Shahidi is known for taking fashion risks, and at the 2019 SAG Awards fans were treated to a feast for the eyes with a pink sequinned Fendi Couture number that was dramatic, feminine and different to everything else to grace the red carpet that night.

But even with a killer outfit, it was Yara's hair that earned the 19-year-old actress the most attention.

Those curls! That volume! This look really is too good for words. Glamorous, modern and proud.

The bigger, the better: Yara Shahidi rocked an afro at this year's SAG awards, paired with a dainty pink Fendi Couture outfit

5. Ciara lets her hair down

Making a 1, 2, Step in the right direction, Ciara stole the show as host of the 2019 American Music Awards, rocking a total of nine different looks throughout the night. Nine!

But her red carpet arrival look was our fave. Dressed in an oversized cobalt blue pantsuit by Balmain, Ciara channeled Rapunzel with her silky smooth locks styled in loose waves around her face.

Extra-long hair extensions had a real moment in 2019, and Ciara's were easily the best of the year.

Ciara's flowing locks hung loose around her face in a custom made Balmain suit at the 2019 AMAs

6. Dove Cameron's wings to the heavens

Ballerina buns, graphic eyeliner and a tulle dress - what more could a girl need?

Known for her classic style and edgy beauty looks, Dove Cameron did it again at the Teen Vogue Young Hollywood Party, wowing with bold graphic eyeliner that truly looked like wings on their way to heaven.

Beautiful Ballerina: Dove Cameron showed off her signature style at the Teen Vogue Young Hollywood party in a form fitting black dress with dramatic eye makeup

The Descendants 3 star made the bold design look effortless; clean skin, a neutral lip and just a touch of blush allowed her eyes to do the talking.

It just works.

7. Lucy Boynton gets dramatic

Lucy Boynton brought creative drama to her look for the Santa Barbara International Film Festival with a wash of pink eyeshadow extending across her temples.

Wearing a bohemian-inspired Gucci frock, Lucy ditched the old adage of focusing on either lips or eyes, and went big on both. Wearing a matte red lip and Twiggy-esque lashes, it was hard not to stare at the talented actress.

Go bold: Ramp up the eye makeup like Lucy Boynton and bleed out your eyeshadow for a dramatic look

If this look proves anything it's that, when it comes to beauty, you should never be afraid to experiment.

8. Elle Fanning and the manicure of dreams

No-one embraced a theme better than Elle Fanning at this year's Met Gala.

Elle's I Dream of Jeannie inspired look showed a playful side to the young starlet and added a fun dose of retro to the Gala red carpet.

Met Gala magic: Elle Fanning showed off the ultimate manicure with individual charms placed on the tips of her fingers

Celebrity manicurist, Mar Y Sol, gave Elle the manicure of our dreams, placing individual charms on each finger. Check out the old phone, the french fries and the tiny little tube of toothpaste!

9. Every single thing about Ebonee Davis's VMAs look

We're calling it, Ebonee Davis had the best look at the 2019 VMAs.

The MTV event is where risk-taking, glamour and sky-high hair never fail to make an appearance. Ebonee went there with her trademark braids piled high and wrapped in an incredible lime green headwrap matched to a fresh swipe of cool, mint green eyeshadow over her lids.

We love that she embraced colour with this look, and if Ebonee’s take on beauty is anything to go by, 2020 is going to be another year of fun, fearlessness and style experimentation. Bring it on!

Ebonee Davis took centre stage at the MTV VMAs with a minty fresh swipe of green eyeshadow over her lids and a striking lime green headwrap