From hairdresser to history-maker, Fallon Sherrock is through to the third round of the PDC World Darts Championship — and has her heart set on lifting the Sid Waddell Trophy.

By beating the world No 11 Mensur Suljovic at Alexandra Palace — nervelessly finishing on bullseye — Sherrock is guaranteed £25,000 prize money. That's her greatest payday to date and £5,000 more than she would take home for winning the BDO women's world title.

The 25-year-old from Milton Keynes is a trailblazer and is being snapped up by sponsors. She has even been invited to play at New York's Madison Square Garden in 2020.

Fallon Sherrock provided a big shock as she beat Mensur Suljovic at World Championships

Amid all this commotion, from gaining 60,000 new Twitter followers to being asked by ITV's Good Morning Britain to play Piers Morgan live on air, Sherrock insists she is normal.

A mum to Rory, who turns six in April and is autistic. A qualified hairdresser. Twin sister of Felicia, also handy with a set of arrows.

Unusually for a darts player, Sherrock does not drink alcohol, owing to previous kidney problems. She was targeted by online trolls in 2017 when a reaction to medication left her with 'moon face'. She used that vitriol as inspiration to get better, and now sticks to water.

The tweet from Billie Jean King shocked Sherrock as 'stuff like this doesn't happen to her'

So there was no champagne celebrations following her first-round win over Ted Evetts which saw her become the first woman to defeat a man at the World Championship.

Evetts took defeat graciously as did Suljovic on Saturday. Sherrock looked almost apologetic after beating the Austrian, but world No 22 Chris Dobey is next on her hit-list.

The 29-year-old Geordie may require earplugs. He will be Public Enemy No 1 at Ally Pally, where a crowd of 3,000 boozed-up darts lovers will be backing Sherrock to win on Friday.

'Us women, we can play darts,' Sherrock said after beating Suljovic 3-1, arguably the biggest upset in the competition's history.

Sherrock will now face Chris Dobey in the next round after knocking out the No 11 seed

'It hasn't all sunk in yet. I haven't had time to process the first game, let alone this game. Then the fact that all these people are tweeting me, especially Billie Jean King.

'Oh my God, I never thought someone like that would be contacting me or congratulating me. I mean, this is me. I'm just a normal person. This stuff doesn't happen to me.' It does now.

Billie Jean King, a trailblazer in tennis after beating Bobby Riggs in the 'Battle of the Sexes' match in 1973, tweeted that Sherrock is a 'game changer'.

But can she win the tournament? 'Why not?' Sherrock said. 'Who's to say that I can't? I'm so looking forward to my next game.'

Sherrock is already being billed as 'the Queen of the Palace'. The World Championship crown would confirm it.