Advertisement

Superyachts including Roman Abramovich's 533 ft vessel and music mogul David Geffen's Rising Sun have descended upon the Caribbean ready for Christmas.

The Chelsea Football Club owner's vessel, called Eclipse, is currently in St Maarten along with at least 50 other superyachts.

Billionaires the world over have clearly decided the luxury islands are the place to be to see in Christmas and the New Year, as the amount of vessels has swollen from 16 in November to 52 in December.

At the time of writing, Abramovich's superyacht is currently the biggest in the area, as reported by Bloomberg Quint.

The Chelsea Football Club owner's Eclipse, said to have been built at a cost of £1billion, is currently in St Maarten along with at least 50 other superyachts

Roman Abramovich's 533ft superyacht, Eclipse, pictured in 2015, is currently the biggest in the Caribbean

One of the lavishly-decorated decks of Abramovich's superyacht Eclipse. At the time of writing, Abramovich's superyacht is currently the biggest in the area

The interior of luxury vessel Eclipse, owned by Roman Abramovich

Russian billionaire Roman Abramovic's luxury mega yacht, Eclipse, is seen anchored on the Aegean coast in October 2014 (File image)

Luxury lifestyle: Mr Abramovich arrives in Bodrum, Turkey with his luxury yacht 'Eclipse' in this file photo taken on November 1, 2013

The Chelsea Football Club owner's Eclipse is currently in St Maarten along with at least 50 other superyachts

ECLIPSE: Roman Abramovich Owned by Russian-Israeli billionaire businessman Roman Abramovich

557ft long, the biggest in the world

Accommodates 62 guests and 50 crew

Maximum speed of 25 knots with cruise speed of 22 knots

Two helicopter pads, two swimming pools, several hot tubs, steam room and disco hall

Bullet-proof windows and its own missile defence system

Master suite is armour-plated and has retractable roof

Has a mini submarine with internal boarding for quick escape

Anti-paparazzi shield with lasers to block camera lenses

Built in Germany in 2010, at cost of almost £1billion

Valued at £538 million (US$700 million) Eclipse (pictured) is owned by Roman Abramovich and can accommodate 62 guests

OCEAN VICTORY: Victor Rashnikov Owned by Russian billionaire Victor Rashnikov

Has a length of 459 ft

Interior design by the late Alberto Pinto

Maximum speed of 25 knots

Comfortably cruises at 18 knots

A helideck with lifting platform

Internal helicopter hangar

Boasts a total of 6 pools

300 square metre spa area

It was build in Muggiano, Italy

Launched in 2014

Also features an underwater observation room

She is reported to have seven decks

It comes in at number nine in the Top 10 largest yachts in the world

Price tag of £230 million (US$300 million) Ocean Victory (pictured), owned by Russian billionaire Victor Rashnikov, has a length of 459 ft

The Eclipse super yacht was built by German company Blohm&Voss and designed by Terence Disdale. It was originally built at Hamburg's Blohm Voss shipbuilders in 2010 and 2011.

Eclipse was formerly the world's largest private yacht at 62.5 metres (533 ft 2 in) long, until it was surpassed by the 590ft Azzam in April 2013.

She has four diesel engines and a maximum speed of 22 knots, although this speed is well surpassed by some of the newer superyacht builds.

It can accommodate 36 guests in comfort, and boasts a cinema, conference facilities, children's playroom, beauty salon, dance floor, swimming pool and sauna.

Superyacht 'Ocean Victory', which features a helideck with lifting platform and internal helicopter hangar, an underwater observation room, six pools and a 300 square metre spa area

Ocean Victory is owned by Russian billionaire Victor Rashnikov (pictured) and was launched in 2014. The vessel can accommodate up to 36 guests

The incredible vessel also contains two swimming pools, two helicopter pads, a dedicated disco hall, around 30 cabins, a mini-submarine, and even a missile defence system.

It has armour-plating around Mr Abramovich's master suite, bullet-proof windows and a laser system designed to dazzle long-lens photographers.

When it was ordered, the initial cost was estimated at around $500million, but by the time Mr Abramovich took delivery in 2012 it was spiralling towards the $1.5billion mark because of the extra luxury fittings and security measures.

Russian billionaire Victor Rashnikov's Ocean Victory is the second largest in the area, coming in at 459 ft. She was launched in 2014 and can accommodate up to 36 guests. Its interior was designed by the late Alberto Pinto.

It was build in Muggiano, Italy and launched in 2014, coming in at number nine in the Top 10 largest yachts in the world.

Le Grand Bleu (pictured) was built at the Bremer Vulkan yard in Bremen, Germany and launched in 2000

Superyacht Symphony owned by Bernard Arnault Symphony yacht is pictured in Monaco in 2015

It features a helideck with lifting platform and internal helicopter hangar, an underwater observation room, six pools and a 300 square metre spa area.

Closely followed by music mogul David Geffen's Rising Sun at 456 ft, which is currently moored in St Barts. Rising Sun was built in 2004 by Lurrsen and last refitted in 2007. Up to 16 guests can comfortably cruise on the yacht at a time.

It has been owned by David Geffen since 2010, after being built for Larry Ellison, CEO of Oracle Corporation. It is the 12th largest yacht in the world at a length of almost 453 ft (138 metres). It reportedly cost over £153 million (US$200 million) to build.

Russian oil tycoon Evgeny Shvidler, with his 371 ft superyacht Le Grand Bleu, is also thought to be in St Barts.

The boat, which is the length of a football field at 371 ft (113 metres), offers a 65-person crew, a helicopter, an aquarium, and a speedboat. The superyacht can hold 20 guests, as well as two smaller boats.

LVMH luxury group CEO Bernard Arnault owns the superyacht Symphony which was launched in 2015 as the biggest yacht to be built in the Netherlands

LE GRAND BLEU: Evgeny Shvidler Owned by Russian oil tycoon Evgeny Shvidler

Built Bremer Vulkan yard Bremen, launched in 2000

Designed by Stefano Pastrovich and constructed by Kusch Yachts

The length of a football field at 371 ft

Offers a 65-person crew, a helicopter, an aquarium, and a speedboat

Reaches a top speed of 17 knots, cruises at 15 knots

The superyacht can hold 20 guests

Shvidler received it as a gift from Roman Abramovich

Boat also boasts two additional yachts

Valued at £115 million (US$150 million) Le Grand Bleu (pictured) is owned by Russian oil tycoon Evgeny Shvidler

SYMPHONY: Bernard Arnault Yacht of French fashion mogul Bernard Arnault, who owns Louis Vuitton

Launched in 2015 as the largest yacht to be build in the Netherlands

Designed by Tim Heywood Design

Superyacht is 333 ft in length

Boasts a total of eight cabins

Vessel can accommodate up to 20 guests

A couple of luxury features such as a 6 metre glass-bottom swimming pool on main deck

Outdoor cinema on bridge deck

Jacuzzi on the sundeck

Maximum speed of 21 knots

Valued at £115 million (US$ 150 million) Superyacht Symphony (pictured) is owned by Bernard Arnault

She was built at the Bremer Vulkan yard in Bremen, Germany and launched in 2000. She was designed by Stefano Pastrovich and constructed by Kusch Yachts.

Shvidler received it as a gift from his friend Roman Abramovich, a Russian oligarch and friend of President Vladimir Putin reportedly as a thank you, recognizing his hard work at the investment company they run together.

The boat also boasts two additional yachts on individual cranes that she carries on the topside of the aft of the boat.

Fashion mogul Bernard Arnault, who owns Louis Vuitton, is thought to be on route to St Maarten in his vessel Symphony. The superyacht is 333 ft (101 metres) in length and boasts eight cabins that can accommodate up to 20 guests.

Symphony was designed by Tim Heywood Design and launched in 2015 with a maximum speed of 21 knots. It boasts luxury features including a 6 metre glass-bottom swimming pool on main deck, an outdoor cinema on bridge deck, and a jacuzzi on the sundeck.

And Ace, the 285 ft vessel owned by Walmart heiress Ann Walton is thought to be in Antigua, as reported by Forbes. She was delivered to her owner in July 2012. The yacht accommodates 10 guests and 28 crew members. Her exterior and interior were both created by Andrew Winch designs.

Ace's interior features a spa, including a hammam, massage room, plunge pool and a Jacuzzi. Other features are a beach club, gym, movie theater, toys & tenders and helicopter landing capabilities.

It comes just a week after the yacht formerly owned by Abramovich, the 282ft Esctasea, crashed while docking at a Marina, at St Maarten.

Music mogul David Geffen's Rising Sun with a width of 456 ft, and is currently moored in St Barts

US Business magnate David Geffen pictured last month. Geffen is the owner of superyacht Rising Sun which is the 12th largest in the world at 453 ft

RISING SUN: David Geffen Superyacht Rising Sun (pictured) is owned by US business magnet David Geffen Owned by US business magnate David Geffen since 2006

Built in 2004 by Lurrsen and last refitted in 2007

12th largest in the world at 453 ft

Comfortably accommodates up to 16 guests

Price tag of £154 million (US $200 m)

It reportedly cost over £153 million (US$200 million) to build

Rising Sun is capable of 28 knots flat out, with a cruising speed of 26 knots

The Rising Sun yacht was originally built for Larry Ellison, CEO of Oracle Corporation

Valued at £307 million (US$400 million)

Entering the bay last Sunday at 3pm, it is believed a combination of adverse wind and current conditions caused the superyacht to veer right and hit the control booth.

The impact forced almost all of the booth to come away and fall into the water below, seconds after the bridge operator manages to jump out of his seat inside it.

No one was harmed during the incident, and the bridge was fully functional, as the control gears were not damaged during the incident.

The Ecstasea was commissioned by Abramovich in 2004, who built his fortune during the opening up of the Soviet Union to private business in the early 1990s.

The country of Sint Maarten is a constituent country of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, and forms part of the island of Saint Martin in the Caribbean

ACE: Ann Walton Owned by Walmart heiress Ann Walton (pictured) Owned by Walmart heiress Ann Walton

Stands at 285 ft in length

Exterior and interior both created by Andrew Winch designs. Accommodates 10 guests and 28 crew members

She was delivered to her owner in July 2012. Features a spa, including a hammam, massage room, plunge pool and a Jacuzzi

Other features are a beach club, gym, movie theater, toys & tenders and helicopter landing capabilities

Capable of a top speed of 18 knots, and comfortably cruises at 14 knots

Valued at £92 million (US$120 million)

ECSTASEA: Alshair Fiyaz Ecstasea was formerly owned by Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the crown prince of Abu Dhabi Owned by shipping magnate and billionaire Alshair Fiyaz

Fiyaz has owned the vessel since 2014

He bought it from Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the crown prince of Abu Dhabi

For a total of £58 million

Constructed by First Export Association of Dutch Shipbuilders in 2004

At the time, it was the largest vessel the group had built

Made of all steel

Much closer to a luxury ship, than to a yacht

Top speed of 30 knots

Cruising speed of 22 knots

It was constructed by First Export Association of Dutch Shipbuilders, a collaboration between two Dutch shipyards known for building the custom superyachts. At the time, it was the largest vessel the group had built.

In 2009, Abramovich sold the vessel to Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the crown prince of Abu Dhabi, for £95 million (US$120 million).

Sheikh Mohammed then sold it to shipping magnate Alshair Fiyaz in 2014 for £58 million (US$75 million).

The country of Sint Maarten is a constituent country of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, and forms part of the island of Saint Martin in the Caribbean.