WHAT'S NOW & HOW TO DO IT: MAKE YOUR MANI LAST

British beauty expert Elsa McAlonan, picked out a selection of the best products for a lasting manicure this festive season (file image)

Christmas can be tough on nails. In an ideal world, the sparkly ones you apply on Christmas Eve will last until New Year’s Day. But how to make it happen?

Sally Hansen Miracle Gel Nail Polish in Goldie rocks Try choosing a hard-wearing gel formula such as Sally Hansen Miracle Gel Nail Polish in Goldie Rocks Boots and superdrug Shop

RACE YOU THERE

If you are looking for last-minute stocking fillers or are restocking your make-up bag ahead of the holidays, head for the Revlon counter at Boots. From now until January 2, not only is there a three-for-two offer on all Revlon cosmetics, you will also receive this limited-edition rose gold brush set with your purchase — the perfect gift, or gift it to yourself. It is, after all, the season of giving. Shop

NICOLE'S GLAM LASH LOOK

Nicole Scherzinger (pictured) is a fan of Kiss Products lashes and wears the Pompadour style to achieve her glamorous look

The fastest way to give your eyes more oomph over the festive season is with false lashes. The X Factor judge Nicole Scherzinger is a fan of Kiss Products lashes and wears the Pompadour style from the Blowout Lash range. Kiss Lash Couture Eyelashes So Wispy 02 (£3.65, Superdrug) blend easily with your own lashes and deliver volume, bounce and curl.

THIS WORKS

The Korres Pure Greek Olive Oil 3-in-1 Nourishing and Anti-Ageing Oil Oil feels wonderful on skin and hair at this time of year. The Korres Pure Greek Olive Oil 3-in-1 Nourishing and Anti-Ageing Oil can be used from head to toe. Organic Cretan olive oil and crambe seed oil hydrate the skin, while hemisqualane protects hair colour and seals in shine. qvcuk.com Shop

CAN A HANGOVER DAMAGE YOUR HAIR?

Oh, yes it can! We all know that alcohol dehydrates your body, but too many glasses the night before may also play havoc with your hair the next morning.

Super-stylist Belle Cannan, co-founder of Salon Sloane in West London, says: ‘In the same way that drinking alcohol can dehydrate your skin, it dehydrates your hair. To keep tresses glossy, I would recommend lots of nourishing moisture treatments.’

3 OF THE BEST: GOLD HIGHLIGHTERS

SHAMELESS INDULGENCE