For many of us, Christmas is the one week of the year when we give ourselves permission to eat what we really want: crisps, warm mince pies, satisfying portions of roast potatoes and turkey, and that extra slice of Yule log that looks so tempting on the plate.

Emotions also run high at this time of year, which can affect how you relate to food. Your stomach feels full but you can’t stop eating, especially when a family argument breaks out and you’re stuck in the peacekeeper role.

And then you feel guilty: how could you ‘lose control’ like that? You resolve to get back on the diet wagon come January 1.

If this sounds familiar, it’s because it’s how millions of people, especially women, approach the festive season. I used to be one of them. I was a yo-yo dieter in my 20s, but at 30 gave it up to eat what I wanted and went on to work as a dietitian.

Dietitian Christy Harrison, shared advice for intuitive eating from Christmas onward, as it's revealed that 98 per cent of dieters regain all the weight they lost within five years (file image)

Why do we eat more at Christmas? Partly stress: a lot is expected from women at this time of year. We are often the ones who plan, shop, wrap presents, cook food and act as the social glue that holds families together. It’s no surprise we may seek solace in food.

But we are also eating for pleasure. During this week, we have given ourselves the rare permission to eat what we desire and enjoy it.

There’s nothing wrong with this pleasure-focused approach to eating. In fact, I would argue that we should carry this mindset forward into 2020 and ditch all those New Year diet resolutions.

The evidence is pretty clear: diets don’t work. Up to 98 per cent of dieters regain all the weight they lost within five years, and two-thirds put on even more. Dieters are also more likely to suffer from low self-esteem, depression and disordered eating.

Because of the diet culture we live in, which forces us to be ‘good’ and to reject ‘bad’ foods, I believe most of us feel deprived going into the Christmas season.

It’s this deprivation that makes us feel so wild around food and creates what I call the ‘restriction pendulum’.

It swings one way when you’re ‘good’, but your body’s natural response is to push it back the other way towards eating a lot and feeling out of control with food. A pendulum can never stop in the middle when it’s pulled to one side.

But what if you could eat what you wanted at any time? That’s the principle behind ‘intuitive eating’, the approach my dietitian colleagues and I use to help our clients heal their relationships with food (no matter what their body size), and that I have practised in my own life for the past eight years, plus a good 20 before the dieting began.

Christy believes intuitive eating is the way we were born to eat, as it allows for hunger and pleasure not to be anything to be ashamed of (file image)

Intuitive eaters generally don’t eat much more over Christmas. We eat all foods all year round, so we don’t feel compelled to stuff ourselves this week only. By taking the restriction away, you take away the push-pull of desire then guilt.

Intuitive eating is the body’s default mode; it’s the way we were born to eat and the way babies and small children eat — where hunger and pleasure are nothing to be ashamed of, and where you stop when you’re satisfied, secure in the knowledge that food will be available again when you want it.

I would love to think people could be inspired by their eating habits over Christmas: to seek out guilt-free pleasure from food and to make peace with all types of food so they could start to have more trust in their bodies. Here’s how ...

LISTEN TO YOUR HUNGER

Many people have lost touch with their hunger cues because they have been suppressing them for so long. A growling stomach is just one possible sign — and, from my clinical experience, you may no longer feel this if you have a history of dieting.

Other signs include difficulty making decisions, feeling irritable, losing focus, thinking about food, fatigue, headaches or ringing in the ears. Having relearned intuitive eating, I now know when I’m hungry and to what degree (‘snack-hungry’ or ‘meal-hungry’). I then go looking for food as soon as possible.

Christy claims there isn't a food that is categorically ‘better’ than another in a nutritional sense and that burgers and apples are equal in moral value (file image)

EAT WHATEVER YOU WANT

You need to trust that you’re allowed to eat as much as you want of the foods you desire, at any time.

Part of what keeps people eating past the point of comfortable fullness is the belief that their food is going to be taken away or placed off-limits again, so they have to get it all in now while they can. If you truly honour your hunger and eat what you want in that moment, you will feel far more satisfied.

I often see people trying to make a meal with few carbs because that’s what current diets have told them is best, but they still feel hungry afterwards. If so, listen to your body and increase the carbs on the plate next time.

It’s essential to feed yourself at regular intervals and to eat enough to feel satisfied.

NO FOOD IS GOOD OR BAD

Which is a better food choice, an apple or a burger? Diet culture would say the apple, but the answer is neither. The burger and the apple are equal in moral value — in that neither of them has one.

One is not even categorically ‘better’ than the other in a nutritional sense, although each of them might be more helpful for different purposes.

The apple is crunchy, refreshing and full of fibre. If you’re in the mood for something sweet, you’d be better off with the apple (or a biscuit, or some sweets), but it’s certainly not a satisfying choice if what you really need is a sustaining meal.

Christy says you can't fool yourself into being satisfied with a 'lite' version of the food you're craving as the brain is too smart to be cheated (file image)

When you destigmatise foods and look at them all as equally worthy options, it takes away the irresistible pull toward ‘forbidden’ foods (don’t those always taste the sweetest?)

There’s no scientific justification for demonising and cutting out whole categories of foods. Trying to do that usually backfires: you end up bingeing on, or feeling ‘addicted’ to, those foods when you gain access to them again. Making peace with all kinds of foods, even the formerly ‘forbidden’ ones, helps support your health.

Research has shown that intuitive eaters have a lower cardiovascular risk, decreased triglyceride levels and more favourable levels of HDL cholesterol, as well as higher self-esteem and lower body dissatisfaction.

NO MORE ‘DIET FOOD’

Have you ever had the craving for a food that diet culture demonises — say, a cupcake — and opted for a ‘lite’ version instead? Odds are it didn’t satisfy you, because what you wanted was the real thing — sugar, butter, flour and all. And what happened then?

Maybe you just suffered in silence, pretending the sorry substitute was good enough. Or maybe you’ve trained yourself over a long-enough period of dieting to almost believe you prefer our diet culture’s version.

Often, though, you can’t quite fool yourself: your brain is too smart and knows it’s been cheated. Dates and unsweetened cocoa powder do not a cupcake make.

Christy reveled that most people gain weight when they begin intuitive eating, but eventually their body stabilises and they don't gain more (file image)

At that point, you might end up eating other things in search of the satisfaction you were after — perhaps even including the forbidden dessert you’d wanted from the start.

Save yourself the heartache and give yourself full, unconditional permission to enjoy all foods.

EMBRACE YOUR NATURAL WEIGHT

At this point you may ask: but won’t I put on endless weight and spend the rest of my life eating nothing but chocolate brownies or crisps?

It’s true that there is a honeymoon period in which you may gravitate towards foods that were previously off-limits. But that’s temporary, and over time you will probably end up eating less of the things you are afraid of when you give yourself full permission to eat them.

Most people (although not all) do gain some weight at the beginning, but eventually that stabilises and they reach a point where their body is able to relax and not gain more.

I don’t know what’s happened to my weight because I threw away my scales roughly a decade ago, but my body type hasn’t changed much in that time.

Christy claims 70 per cent of individual differences in body weight are dictated by genes, your weight will stop fluctuating when you find its set range (file image)

Research indicates that our bodies have a set weight range that they’re genetically programmed to maintain: 70 per cent of individual differences in body weight are dictated by genes.

When you repeatedly try to force your body below its set range, it may eventually increase that range to protect you against future famines (aka diets) by reducing the amount of ‘fullness’ hormones, increasing ‘hunger’ hormones and other biological mechanisms.

Getting to a place where you’re not actively trying to shrink your body is an essential ingredient in your physical and mental wellbeing, although diet culture makes that difficult.

And by diet culture I include the current obsession with ‘wellness’, which is just dieting by another name. Breaking free from diet culture means breaking free from all of it, including idealising smaller bodies and equating thinness with health and moral virtue.

Once you’re in the habit of nourishing yourself consistently, honouring your hunger, and not restricting or avoiding any foods, your weight will find its set range and stop the wild fluctuations.

IT WILL TAKE TIME

This process can take months, or sometimes years, and in the meantime you need to be kind to yourself. Shame and guilt are terrible motivators. Relearning intuitive eating is like any learning experience: it’s going to be messy and awkward, but eventually you’ll get more practised at it, and things will start to come more easily.

Eventually the urgency and frequency of your thoughts about food will dissipate. You will also reclaim your life when you don’t have to spend all your time and energy worrying about food and your body.

People are capable of doing incredible things with the time and energy they reclaim when they stop dieting. Just think what you could achieve.

Adapted by Rachel Carlyle from Anti-Diet by Christy Harrison, published December 26 (Yellow Kite, £14.99).