We all know that a dog is not just for Christmas. But this year, it certainly seems Christmas is for dogs. From sprout costumes, toy turkeys and snowballs to dog-friendly mince pies, Christmas puddings and even ‘Champaws fizz’ (£4), 2019 has surely reached peak festive pooch.

In 2017, Tesco quadrupled its Christmas pet present range from 12 to more than 50 items, after seeing a 300 per cent increase in demand over the previous two years.

This year, Sainsbury’s has its biggest range of festive toys and treats with 36 lines, including Christmas jumpers, mini log bones and mince pies (they have already sold 10,000 of these) — and say customers spend about £3.5 million on festive pet presents each year.

Henrietta Morrison, 51, (pictured) from North London, who is the founder of Lily’s Kitchen, shared advice for including dogs in Christmas celebrations

But the person who arguably spearheaded our Christmas pet pampering obsession is 51-year-old entrepreneur and North London-based mother-of-one Henrietta Morrison, the founder of Lily’s Kitchen.

Her Lily’s Kitchen Advent Calendar was the first one in the UK for dogs when it launched in 2014 and promptly sold out. Since then, sales have rocketed by 52 per cent, with more than 198,000 sold in nine countries, sparking an unprecedented craze. Now she’s turning over £65 million.

Witness David Beckham displaying the advent calendars he’d bought for the whole family: not only his wife and four children but the cocker spaniels, too.

A few days later, Victoria filmed Olive and Fig excitedly performing tricks for their £6 Lily’s Kitchen Advent Calendar.

Now everyone is doing it — John Lewis and Sainsbury’s released their own doggie chocolate versions at £4 and £2 — Henrietta is upping her game.

Today, she also has a range of crackers (£3.95) plus a special Christmas meal, the Three Bird Feast (£2.75), of which Robbie Williams and Adele’s pooches are said to be fans. And she has just written a cookbook called Tasty Treats For Happy Dogs, which includes healthy recipes for Christmas dinner and other festive snacks.

So what is behind our canine Christmas obsession? According to Henrietta: ‘It’s all about recognising that your pet is a part of the family, just as much as everybody else.

‘Christmas is such a magical time and it’s wonderful to be able to share that with them. You’re there in that whirlwind of family, with people turning up who you haven’t seen in years, so it’s easy to ignore them [your pets].

‘But you love your dog, too, so it’s nice to be able to include them and have those special moments. And they do appreciate it!’

Henrietta (pictured with her border terrier Lulu) was inspired to set up Lily's Kitchen in 2009, after cooking fresh meat miraculously helped her first dog, Lily, to recover from illness

The strength of that bond is something she knows well. Henrietta got her first dog, Lily, as a ‘playmate’ for her daughter Holly because her family ‘felt incomplete having only one child’. They fell for the border terrier instantly.

However, when she was three, Lily became very ill and stopped eating, which left the family ‘completely panic-stricken’. Henrietta decided to try cooking fresh meat and vegetables for her and, miraculously, she recovered within ten days.

It was this that inspired her to set up Lily’s Kitchen, in 2009, to produce fresh, healthy food for dogs and cats that was free from any harmful additives or fillers.

Then, when her daughter was nine and ‘very much into advent calendars’, she just ‘thought it was natural to want to give one to the dog, too’.

Because normal chocolate is poisonous to dogs, it ‘just made sense’ to make her own.

It would be a mistake to think it’s only pets that benefit. ‘You do get so much pleasure from it,’ Henrietta says. ‘Food is a big deal for animals, so that’s your moment to show them how much you love them. It’s very satisfying.

‘Think how, after a stressful day, you finally get home, open the door and it’s a simple pleasure to see your pet — a digital detox wrapped up in fur!’.

There is also a practical side to dog present-giving.

Henrietta (pictured) recommends cooking a couple of meals for dogs a few days in advance, as they can't eat the raisins in mince pies, chocolate or onions

‘There are so many things at Christmas that dogs can’t eat: the raisins in mince pies, cheese, chocolate, onions — a lot of the food we enjoy is very salty, or full of alcohol and cream. The last thing you want is a stomach issue and to have to rush to a 24-hour vet on Christmas Day.’

So Henrietta recommends cooking a couple of meals two to three days in advance, and filling a jar with home-made treats which you can keep to hand, as they last for several weeks and can be frozen.

If you don’t, she says, ‘the family come over and the kids are busy trying to feed the dog bits of chocolate, my uncle is trying to feed it his Stilton and I’m trying to manage the situation.

‘This way, everyone knows what is for the dog and you don’t feel guilty while you’re tucking in because your dog can have a nice meal too.’

Her dogs — Lily, now 16, and Lulu, seven — each get their own advent calendar. ‘If we’ve forgotten, they sit there and look at it.’

Plus, there’s a stocking on Christmas Day, packed with toys and home-made treats. And a delicious dinner, of course.

‘Otherwise, I can feel their eyes burrowing into me’, says Henrietta. It’s a feeling many of us know all too well.

Festive treats to cook up for Fido CHRISTMAS TREES Makes: 10-12 depending on size 175–225g (6–8oz) buckwheat flour, plus extra for dusting

100g (4oz) apple purée

1 egg, beaten

1 teaspoon ground cinnamon

dried cranberries, to decorate (optional) 1 Preheat oven to 180c/160cfan/350f/Gas 4. Grease a baking tray or line with baking paper. Henrietta suggests making cinnamon stars using plain flour, cinnamon and oil 2. Put the flour, apple purée, egg and cinnamon into a bowl and mix until you have a firm dough. If you want to make the trees green, add ½ teaspoon of spirulina — but use it carefully, as it can stain clothes. 3. Roll out the dough on a lightly floured work surface until it’s about 5mm (¼ in) thick. Using a tree-shaped cutter, stamp out as many trees as you can. If you like, you can decorate the trees with dried cranberry ‘baubles’. 4. Place them on the prepared tray and bake for 20 minutes. When ready, transfer to a wire rack to cool. Store in an airtight container in a cool cupboard for up to two weeks. CINNAMON STARS Makes: 10–12 depending on size 100g (4oz) plain flour, plus extra for dusting

½ tsp ground cinnamon

1 egg

2 tbsp olive oil 1. Preheat oven to 180c/160c fan/350f/Gas 4. Grease a baking tray or line with baking paper. 2. Combine the flour and cinnamon in a bowl. 3. Break the egg into another bowl, add the olive oil and whisk together with a fork. Pour into the flour mixture and stir to form a dough. Add some water if it’s too dry, or more flour if too wet. 4. Roll out the dough on a lightly floured work surface until it’s about 5mm (¼in) thick. Using a star-shaped cutter, stamp out star shapes. Place on the prepared tray and bake for 20 minutes. 5. Allow to cool, then store in an airtight container in a cool kitchen cupboard for up to two weeks. TURKEY BAUBLES Makes: 8–12 200g (7oz) minced turkey

100g (4oz) apple purée

1 tsp ground cinnamon

100g (4oz) plain flour 1. Preheat oven to 180c/160c fan/350f/Gas 4. Grease a baking tray, or line it with baking paper. 2. Put the turkey meat, apple purée and cinnamon into a bowl and mix well (you can use a food processor if you prefer a smoother texture). Add the flour to form a dough. 3. Break off small pieces of the dough (suitable for the size of your dog) and roll them into balls. Place them on the prepared tray and bake for 25 minutes. 4. Allow to cool, then store in an airtight container in the fridge for up to four days.

Taken from Tasty Treats For Happy Dogs, by Henrietta Morrison, of Lily’s Kitchen, published by Ebury on December 5, £12.99. © Lily’s Kitchen 2019. To order a copy for £10.40 (offer valid until January 13; p&p free), visit mailshop.co.uk or call 01603 648155.

lilyskitchen.co.uk