Pictured: Lauren McAuslin often works on the floor in her own store

A law graduate chose to follow in her parents' footsteps by buying a McDonald's franchise rather than seeking a position at a legal firm.

Lauren McAuslin is now the youngest franchisee in New Zealand at 34, and owns the Blenheim store and another in New Plymouth.

The latter brings in about $10million per year, but most stores in the region make at least $7million.

She has grown up in the fast food industry.

Her parents owned a restaurant when she was younger and she was required to take over the day-to-day management of the place when she was 22 after her father got sick.

'I was young and suddenly had lots of responsibility, and that was the toughest part. People were suddenly looking to me for advice, and that can be pretty difficult when you don't have a lot of life skills,' she told Stuff.

She chose to work in McDonald's and buy her own stores despite having a law degree

Ms McAuslin said her former classmates are often shocked to hear she chose to stay in the family business rather than pursue a career in law.

'I remember being at friends' birthday parties and people from law school would ask 'which firm do you work for?'. I'd say, 'I'm working at McDonald's,' they'd say, 'really?' But I choose what I do, and I have control over my work life,' she said.

Despite potential to make massive profits, Ms McAuslin has plenty of overheads.

Franchisees are required to foot most of the bill for the interior design of the store and equipment, as well as pay for the food and staff wages.

'I watched them [former coursemates] take jobs to sit in desks, go into work at 6am and leave at 11pm, working under intense pressure. They didn't seem to be having a lot of fun,' she said.

'But I can come into work, laugh with the crew and have a good time. There's nothing like working on a Friday night when you're really busy. It's backs to the wall, but you're just going for it. That's much more fun than sitting at a desk all day.'