Jeff Van Drew, the newest Republican congressman, said Sunday that he knew he did the 'honorable thing' by being one of the only two Democrats to vote against impeaching Donald Trump on Wednesday.

'How I feel today is I feel good. I feel that I did the honorable thing,' Van Drew told Fox News' Maria Bartiromo on Sunday Morning Futures. 'I feel that I did what was right for me and right for the country.'

'This impeachment is a weak, thin impeachment that just doesn't really mean anything much to most of the American people,' he continued. 'And it has been a long dark shadow on our country, and folks are tired. I really believe folks are tired of it.'

Van Drew and and Congressman Collin Peterson were the only Democrats who voted against both articles of impeachment against Trump – abuse of power and obstruction of Congress.

Congressman Jeff Van Drew said Sunday that he knew he did the 'honorable' thing by voting against impeachment as a Democrat – the day after the vote he switched to the GOP

'How I feel today is I feel good. I feel that I did the honorable thing,' Van Drew said in a Sunday Morning Futures appearance after changing parties. He now represents New Jersey's 2nd district as a Republican congressman

On Thursday, Van Drew, who represents New Jersey's 2nd district, engaged in an Oval Office meeting with Trump where he formally announcing he was switching from the Democratic Party to the GOP.

'Jeff will be joining the Republican Party,' Trump unveiled to reporters Thursday afternoon, adding that the newly declared member of the GOP had his endorsement in the 2020 elections.

Van Drew reciprocated the vote of confidence, telling the president he has his 'undying support.'

'I believe that this is just a better fit for me. This is who I am. It's who I always was but there was more tolerance of moderate Democrats, of Blue Dog Democrats of conservative Democrats. And I think that's going away,' Van Drew said.

During his interview with Bartiromo Sunday, Van Drew explained the final straw that led him to switch parties was people telling him that he couldn't vote against impeachment as a Democratic congressman.

'The final sign for me was oddly enough, actually in my home county, when… one of the county chairmen came to me and said,... 'I just want to let you know that you have to vote for impeachment.' Van Drew detailed.

'It made me think, for all the years that I've worked so hard and tried to give so much, not only to the Party but to everybody… and it all boils down to one vote that I may have my own individual opinion on one vote and that's not going to be allowed?'

'And that's when I knew,' he said. 'I had been thinking about it for a while.'

'Jeff will be joining the Republican Party,' Donald Trump told reporters during an Oval Office meeting Thursday – the day after the lawmaker voted against both articles of impeachment against the president

On Sunday, Van Drew he also praised Bartiromo (pictured) for her 'objective' journalism, claiming she 'represents what news media should be about'

During the show Van Drew also praised Bartiromo for being a fair journalist in a time when Trump declares most media outlets, especially those who do not lean right, are 'fake news.'

'It is a pleasure to be with you and as I was saying before, I am so proud to be associated with you,' Van Drew said to the Fox News host – one of Trump's favorite journalists.

'You truly represent what news media should be about and just how to conduct a show like this. I'm very, very proud of you and the work that you do and the objectivity that you have. So, thank you,' he gushed.

'I really appreciate that,' Bartiromo said.

While Van Drew was making the official announcement, less than a week after reports revealed he had spoken with Trump the Friday before the full House impeachment vote, he said Trump has his 'undying support.'

'Two things I want to say. One, you have my undying support. Always,' he directed at the president.

'And the last thing I will say, one of my heros, and he's always hung in my office – I have a bipartisan wall that has a lot of different people on there – Ronald Reagan and when he said, 'I didn't leave my party, my party left me,' Van Drew said, inciting the worlds of the late Republican president.

'It's true, that's what he said,' Trump said.

'And I'm saying the same thing,' Van Drew continued.

Van Drew, who represents a largely red district in New Jersey, voted against both the abuse of power and obstruction of Congress articles filed against Trump and approved in the House Wednesday night.

One other Democrat joined Van Drew in voting against both articles – Representative Collin Peterson of Minnesota. Although he represents a largely red area where some counties voted upwards of 60 per cent for Trump on 2016, Minnesota went blue in the last presidential election by a margin of only 1.5 per cent.

Congressman Jared Golden of Maine's 2nd district voted against obstruction of congress but vote to move forward with impeaching the president based on the first article – abuse of power.

Tulsi Gabbard, a Democratic representative for Hawaii and 2020 presidential candidate, faced backlash when she decided to vote 'present' on both articles instead of casting a vote one way or the other.

Day ahead of the impeachment vote in the lower chamber, speculation swirled that Van Drew would be switching political parties following a Friday meeting with Trump at the White House.

The rumors were further spread after Trump praised the congressman on Twitter after their sit-down.

Rep. Collin Peterson was the only other Democrat along with Van Drew who voted against abuse of power and obstruction of Congress impeachment articles against the president

Democratic Rep. Jared Golden (left) voted against obstruction of Congress but voted for abuse of power and congresswoman and 2020 Democratic candidate Tulsi Gabbard (right) voted 'present' instead of casting a vote one way or the other

'Wow, that would be big. Always heard Jeff is very smart!' Trump tweeted over the weekend in response to news Van Drew was considering the switch.

Van Drew has voiced his disdain for impeachment since the get-go and has never supported the proceedings.

While speaking in the Oval Office Thursday, he said he had contemplated leaving the Democratic Party at several other points during his political career.

House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy and Vice President Mike Pence were also at the oval office meeting, and agreed with the president that they would pledge their endorsement to Van Drew.

White House Counselor Kellyanne Conway, Acting Chief of Staff Mick Mulvaney and Trump's daughter and Senior Advisor Ivanka Trump were also in the meeting Thursday afternoon with Van Drew.