Barnaby Joyce has called Australians 'naive' for believing that reducing the nation's carbon emissions will inspire coal-obsessed China and India to follow suit.

The 52-year-old former leader of the Nationals party told Sunrise hosts and Labor MP Joel Fitzgibbon Australians had little to do with carbon emissions on a global scale.

'You can't preach to the international community... We are doing our bit, but we can't start saying single-handedly we can influence what China does or what India does, or change the climate itself,' he said.

Joyce said there was no single piece of legislation that could be introduced in parliament that would change the climate back to the way it once was.

Barnaby Joyce (pictured) said he doesn't believe China and Russia will care what Australia does

'The climate is changing, there's no doubt about it... do you honestly believe there is a piece of legislation we can move in Canberra that will change it back? The answer is no,' he said.

Mr Fitzgibbon argued that Australians could make a difference by 'having a go' and acting as a leader for the other powerhouse nations.

'The place is burning and the rest of the world is... shaking their heads at us and asking why we don't just do our bit,' he said.

'We are at risk of becoming the pariah of the international community because we are not just having a go.'

The 52-year-old former leader of the Nationals party told Sunrise hosts and Labor MP Joel Fitzgibbon (left) Australians have little to do with global carbon emissions

But Joyce said anybody who believed those claims was 'naively overreaching the influence of Australia'.

'The actual fact is that China or Russia or India don't give two tosses what Australia thinks... don't start thinking for one second that we are some great moral mover in global politics, because we are not.'

The duo also clashed about Prime Minister Scott Morrison's recent trip to Hawaii.

The PM apologised for causing anxiety by taking personal leave during the worst bushfire crisis Australia has seen but said he did so because he was trying to keep a promise to his daughters, Lily and Abby.

Upon his return, Mr Morrison held a press conference where he reiterated there would be no amendment to the climate policy as a result of the bushfires.

NSW Rural Fire Service crews fight the Gospers Mountain Fire as it impacts a structure at Bilpin, Saturday, December 21. Fires have been burning across Australia for two months

On Monday morning, the PM told the Today show his government has reduced Australia's emissions by 50 million tonnes each year for the past two years.

'We have more renewable energy going into our system now than we have seen before,' he said, before adding Australia is on track to meet its commitments for the Paris Agreement.

'Australia is taking action on climate change.

'But what we won't do is engage in reckless and job destroying, economy crunching targets which is... taking advantage of national disasters.

'No Australian would think that the direct policies of any single government in the world is directly linked to any fire event. That's not true,' he said.