Kagiso Rabada is the perfect role model for Jofra Archer. They bowl at similar speeds, have similar athleticism and there are big expectations on both of them from England and South Africa in this Test series and beyond. Both can be superstars.

Rabada, of course, has shown the way. He was the youngest bowler to be ranked No 1 in the world and since then he has set consistently high standards. Now he has taken 183 Test wickets in 40 Tests at 22.50 which is a remarkably similar record to the great Allan Donald at the same stage of his career.

The key to Rabada's success is his ability to bowl high speeds for long spells and very rarely do those speeds drop off, which is something Archer can look at and learn from. Certainly New Zealand showed Jofra how hard Test cricket can be.

England's Jofra Archer found out hard Test cricket can be during the series in New Zealand

Kagiso Rabada (left) represents a perfect role model for someone like Archer (right) now

Rabada learned very quickly when he first played Test cricket to cope with those demands. He is incredibly skilful and has shown himself to be a quick learner.

For instance when he first came into the South African side he was a better bowler to right handers but recently he has gone round the wicket to left-handers and improved against them.

There was a time when Rabada, still only 24, would go quiet when the ball wasn't doing much but he has learned now to try to shape it in and out and doesn't have to wait until the ball reverse swings before he's back in the game again.

South Africa's spearhead has an exceptional bouncer but he doesn't get carried away with it and will invariably bowl a good length. Perhaps his biggest asset is an incredibly quick arm that comes at you from nowhere.

The one area where Rabada could improve is in his discipline. He likes to be in the batsman's face and, like Jimmy Anderson, is on the edge all the time and is constantly pushing the line.

That has led to problems and suspensions, notably when he was banned for two matches in 2018 for making physical contact with Australia's Steve Smith. There was also a send-off to Ben Stokes at Lord's the last time these sides met in Test cricket.

That fire in his belly goes a long way towards making Rabada the bowler he is and you do not want to quash that but the last thing South Africa need is for him to miss any more games because he is so important to them.

The key to Rabada's success right now is his key ability to bowl high speeds for long spells

Rabada has been handled well by South Africa and this is definitely where England can learn. Mike Selvey wrote in The Cricketer recently that Archer is a thoroughbred not a workhorse and South Africa treat Rabada like a thoroughbred. They know what they have.

There were times in New Zealand and during the Ashes when Joe Root used Archer like a workhorse and he would be far better employed in short sharp spells. Better to have five overs of Jofra at his best and then give him a rest as opposed to seven or eight overs of him at 80mph. England have got Chris Woakes and Sam Curran to do that.

I do think Archer can be difficult to manage and I don't mean that in a bad way. He wants to do things his own way, like bowl left-arm spin in practice, wrap his jumper round his waist and go for a ride on a Segway before a Test.

That's all fine when things are going well and we applaud how relaxed he is but when they are not, as in New Zealand, they can be used against someone who does things differently.

Sky are showing a programme on the World Cup on Boxing Day and in it Eoin Morgan says that at an early stage of England's first game against South Africa at the Oval he found Jofra having a little nap in the dressing room. And that was the biggest game of his career up to that point!

Man-management is going to be crucial with Jofra, as it has been with South Africa and Rabada. I don't think, for instance, the stick is going to work with Archer. It will not be a good idea for Root to become cross with him at those points of difference.

Joe Root used Archer like a workhorse and he would be far better employed in short spells

I think the way to get the best out of him will be to make him feel special because he is special. The whole handling of Jofra during that World Cup, when suddenly he came from nowhere to bowl the super over in a final at Lord's, was superb.

Morgan made him feel special but in the Test arena you get the impression he has infuriated Root at times. His handling of him in South Africa and beyond will be crucial.

Make no mistake, Archer now has the potential to join Rabada, Anderson and Pat Cummins as one of the world's very best bowlers. You only have to look at that spell he bowled at Steve Smith at Lord's last summer to see that.

And Jofra only has to look at his opposite number in the South African team during this series for an example of what it takes to fulfil that enormous potential.