A mum has praised the budget retailer Kmart for their 'incredible' $4 vegetable boxes - which she said kept her broccoli fresh for weeks.

Posting on Facebook, Adelaide-based media manager Taylah Coker said her broccoli was 'completely crunchy' after almost three weeks in the container inside her fridge.

'I also have cherry tomatoes that were bought at the same time and they are still firm!' she wrote online.

A mum has praised the budget retailer Kmart for their 'incredible' $4 vegetable boxes - which she said kept her broccoli fresh for three weeks (pictured)

Posting on Facebook, Adelaide-based media manager Taylah Coker said her broccoli was 'completely crunchy' after almost three weeks in the container inside her fridge (pictured)

Continuing her post, Taylah said: 'I am in shock! I have Tupperware vent smarts that don't even keep veg and fruit as good as this!

'I can't recommend the Kmart veg tubs enough! You NEED these in your life.'

The Kmart 480ml Fridge Food Savers cost $4 and boast a five-star rating online.

The Kmart 480ml Fridge Food Savers (pictured) cost $4 and boast a five-star rating, where people say they work wonders with spinach, spring onions, mushrooms, sprouts and berries

'Great value and keep veggies fresher for longer. Love them,' one reviewer posted.

'They are the best - eh? Great for spinach, spring onions, mushrooms, sprouts - they last for weeks,' another added.

A third said that if you put celery inside the container, it can last for six weeks, while others said they work wonders with berries.

Some warned that you shouldn't put the boxes into the dishwasher - as this can lead to them 'warping' and changing shape.

Earlier this year, home cooks went crazy for their $8 storage containers which make it a breeze to store all sorts of fruit and vegetables in your fridge (pictured)

'Just love this pack of three containers. Two different packs with different shapes. Air tight. I love shopping now to fill them,' one woman posted (pictured: inside her fridge)

This isn't the first time Kmart has had a hit with storage boxes.

Earlier this year, home cooks went crazy for their $8 storage containers which make it a breeze to store all sorts of fruit and vegetables in your fridge.

'Just love this pack of three containers. Two different packs with different shapes. Air tight. I love shopping now to fill them. Everyone can see the food and nothing gets pushed to the back,' one woman posted about the containers.

'Easy food for the kids to reach with the cut up fruit and salad at the front. I also cut my garnish up ready to go. Even cheese with out being wrapped stays fresh. And shallots still crisp for ages.'