Real Madrid drew 0-0 for the second time in four days but if the result in midweek at the Camp Nou was celebrated like a victory this point will leave a grey cloud over the club during the Christmas break.

Madrid needed to beat Athletic Bilbao to move back to the top of La Liga level with Barcelona. But 24 hours after Barcelona beat Alaves 4-1, Madrid found Athletic a much tougher nut to crack.

With five minutes left substitute Luka Jovic headed onto the post and Sergio Ramos just failed to scramble in the replay. That was closest Zinedine Zidane’s team came to picking up the win that would have drawn them back level at the top.

Real Madrid were held to a 0-0 draw by Athletic Bilbao after missing a host of good chances

Madrid had 20 shots but just eight were on target as they slipped two points behind Barcelona

Zinedine Zidane brought on Gareth Bale from the bench but he couldn't inspire Madrid to win

Madrid are having trouble scoring goals. Jovic cost 60m euros in the summer but has just one goal. Eden Hazard cost 100m euros and also has just one goal in La Liga. He has also missed two sizeable chunks of the season through injury and his invention was missed at the Bernabeu in Madrid’s last game of 2019.

Brazilian youngsters Vinicius and Rodrygo Goes have huge potential but the former lacks an ability to finish and the latter is in his first season in La Liga.

That means that when top scorer Karim Benzema and Gareth Bale, a second half substitute on Sunday, don’t score the team struggles.

Madrid spent big money on Luka Jovic in the summer but he's scored just one goal in La Liga

When Karim Benzema and Bale don't score, Madrid struggle for goals elsewhere on the pitch

Rodrygo Goes has huge potential but isn't yet a goal threat in his first season in La Liga

It now remains to be seen whether this potentially costly dropped two points pushes the club towards a January signing. They now trail Barcelona by two points.

Toni Kroos charged through and hammered the ball against the bar as Real Madrid made the early running.

But Athletic carried a threat with the running of Iñaki Williams and Thibaut Courtois had to get down well to push his shot out for a corner on 20 minutes.

Then Luka Modric pushed the ball one way and ran the other to break into the area but his cross was dive-headed wide by Vinicius, as involved but wayward as ever.

Unai Nunez then brilliantly flicked the ball off his own line with his heel to prevent Benzema scoring from a tight angle. Nunez was one of three Athletic central defenders in a back-five system that was keeping Real Madrid at bay.

Unai Simon then saved well from Benzema’s header from Rodrygo’s cross.

Toni Kroos had the best chance of the game but his effort was tipped on to the crossbar

Kroos' frustrated reaction summed up the feelings of Madrid fans on a disappointing night

Kenan Kodro had the ball in the Madrid net just before half time but he was offside when he received the ball before firing it past Courtois.

Nacho had to replace Militao in the second half. The defender was caught in his right eye and had vision problems. The substitute’s first intervention was to crash a header on to the bar. Ramos nearly converted the rebound but Madrid were frustrate again and on the hour Zinedine Zidane turned to Bale.

It was Athletic who had the next chance however when Williams had the ball taken off his toe by Dani Carvajal as he was poised to shoot.

Madrid turned next to Jovic. He partnered Benzema in attack with Bale now playing down the left. Both Rodrygo and Vinicius had been taken off having failed to break down Athletic’s stubborn defence.

Jovic hit the frame of the goal late on but their were timid whistles as Madrid trounced off with the solitary point. This was the same score as Wednesday night in Barcelona but the post-match mood will be very different.