Simon Cowell continued to display his recent weight loss as he hit the beach in Barbados with girlfriend Lauren Silverman and their son Eric on Sunday.

The X Factor star, 60, displayed his slimmed-down physique as he went shirtless for the day as the family enjoyed their annual trip to the Caribbean island.

Simon sported a pair of grey knee-length shorts and a pair of sunglasses for the day as he held hands with Eric, five, while they strolled on the beach.

Fun in the sun: Simon Cowell, 60, continued to display his recent weight loss as he hit the beach in Barbados with girlfriend Lauren Silverman, 42, and their son Eric, five, on Sunday

Lauren, 42, cut a stylish figure in a blue oversized top with a scoop neckline and short sleeves which she paired with white, printed short shorts.

Sporting a sun-kissed glow, the socialite also wore a white hat and a pair of shades for the outing.

Letting her brunette locks fall loose down her shoulders, Lauren also sported a gold wristwatch and a matching necklace.

Simon was in high spirits for the day at the beach as he and Eric took to the water and went jet-skiing.

Casual: Simon sported a pair of grey knee-length shorts and a pair of sunglasses for the day as he held hands with Eric while they strolled on the beach

The music mogul was spotted by several fans during the outing and happily obliged other beach goers for photos.

Simon has shed more than 20Ibs in weight thanks to a fastidious vegan diet, which he changed in order to keep up with Eric.

He told The Ellen DeGeneres Show: 'I went to see this doctor in London. We did some tests. And then a month later he said, "You have the worst diet I've ever met from any patient." '

Healthy: The X Factor star displayed his slimmed-down physique as he went shirtless for the day as the family enjoyed their annual trip to the Caribbean island

Outfit: Lauren cut a stylish figure in a blue oversized top with a scoop neckline and short sleeves which she paired with white, printed short shorts

Holiday: Simon was in high spirits for the day at the beach as he and Eric took to the water and went jet-skiing

Simon then added: 'It's like the Eric diet because he actually, apart from ice cream, he actually likes water. I mean, who likes water? And his raw vegetables. So I'm on like, the Eric Cowell diet.'

The TV judge's new physique has impressed his celebrity pals, with his close friend and fellow Britain's Got Talent judge David Walliams joking the star has become a 'skinny b***h'.

Taking to Twitter to share his thoughts on Simon's transformation, David tweeted a picture of his pal shirtless on the beach and said: 'Skinny b***h,' before following his post up with another of Simon that read: 'Vegan diet my a**e.'

Change: Simon has shed more than 20Ibs in weight thanks to a fastidious vegan diet, which he changed in order to keep up with Eric

He told The Ellen DeGeneres Show: 'I went to see this doctor in London. We did some tests. And then a month later he said, "You have the worst diet I've ever met from any patient" '

Simon said: 'It's like the Eric diet because he actually, apart from ice cream, he actually likes water. I mean, who likes water? And his raw vegetables. So I'm on like, the Eric Cowell diet'

Pals: Simon's new physique has impressed his celebrity pals, with his close friend and fellow Britain's Got Talent judge David Walliams joking the star has become a 'skinny b***h'

Popular: The music mogul was spotted by several fans during the outing and happily obliged other beach goers for photos

Healthy living: In addition to his new diet, Simon also cut down on alcohol earlier this year as part of his lifestyle change

Simon said: 'I went to see this guy who’s very well-known. And he said to me, after doing some blood work, "You can’t have red meat, dairy, sugar, bread or gluten" '

Simon added: 'I’m thinking, "What about alcohol?" And he said, "Maybe not quite as much as you had before." And I did it and I stuck to it and it’s easy'

Amanda Holden, who also sits on the panel with Simon for Britain's Got Talent, has also spoken out about his weight loss and claimed it was the result of Simon switching to 'skinny lager'.

Speaking on Good Morning Britain to host Piers Morgan, she said: 'He’s drinking lightweight beers, that’s the secret.

'And I tasted it because I thought it was gonna taste, like, naff. Actually it’s quite decent. You could take a tip from him!'

Meanwhile, Simon also spoke about cutting down on alcohol earlier this year, he told Extra: 'I went to see this guy who’s very well-known. And he said to me, after doing some blood work, "You can’t have red meat, dairy, sugar, bread or gluten."

Pooch: Animal lover Simon stopped to play with a six-month old puppy called Bronte on the beach

Style: Sporting a sun-kissed glow, Lauren also wore a white hat and a pair of shades for the outing with her partner and son

Trip: Simon goes to Barbados with Lauren and Eric each year during the festive season

Chat: Simon looked in high spirits as he played with the pooch and spoke with a female friend

Family: Eric is Simon's only child and he has credited his son for changing his life for the better, ever since he was born back in 2014

Simon said of Eric: 'I see my life through his eyes now and it’s much more simple and it’s much more fun'

Show: Simon's trip to Barbados comes shortly after he wrapped The X Factor: The Band

'I’m thinking, "What about alcohol?" And he said, "Maybe not quite as much as you had before." And I did it and I stuck to it and it’s easy.'

Eric is Simon's only child and he has credited his son for changing his life for the better, ever since he was born back in 2014.

Speaking on ITV's Lorraine in September, Simon explained the impact Eric has had on him and said: 'I see my life through his eyes now and it’s much more simple and it’s much more fun.

'When you become a dad, something clicks in you. it’s all about them... You become very protective and importantly, part of the reason I changed everything in my life.'

He added: 'When you become a dad, something clicks in you. it’s all about them... You become very protective and importantly, part of the reason I changed everything in my life'