Kourtney Kardashian is enjoying hanging out with ex Younes Bendjima.

The pair have sparked speculation they are giving their relationship another go, and sources say Kourtney, 40, has been 'happy' spending time with Younes, 26, who has been doing his best to earn her trust back.

'In the past, Kourtney was very happy dating Younes and she feels the same now. They took a long break because Kourtney felt that she couldn't trust him. He is trying to convince her that she can though,' a source close to the Kardashians revealed to People magazine.

Disney day: Kourtney Kardashian and her ex Younes Bendjima continue to spend more time together following their recent trip to Disneyland a few days ago

Back on? A source reveals that she may have rekindled her relationship with the model following their August 2018 split

Recently, the two took their budding romance to the happiest place on earth with her three kids Mason, Penelope, and Reign, to celebrate her two son's birthdays.

The insider added Younes also had a good relationship with Kourtney's kids, who 'really' liked him.

The source added, 'It seems she is giving Younes another chance. And she seems very happy about it.'

Sweet: Younes and Kourtney are pictured above at Tristan Thompson's birthday party back in 2018

The pair met in Paris in October 2016, marking Kourtney's first public romance since the end of her long-term relationship with her ex and father to their three children, Scott Disick.

While neither have confirmed the news, this isn't the first time they have rekindled their relationship.

Earlier this month, the two jetted off to Miami for a couple nights out on the town with Kourtney's sister, Kendall Jenner.

On the go: The two took their love abroad by vacationing in Cannes during the Cannes Film Festival back in May 2017

The two were spotted out at Maggio Cipriani's grand opening of the night club and slipped out the back door to avoid cameras.

The next night, Kendall joined the two at LIV in Miami Beach where they kept a low profile while out with friends.

Kourtney's new relationship comes after she revealed she will be taking a step back from her reality series in order to expand her personal life and be a better mother to her kids.

'What I'm saying is I'm getting to the point where I'm not happy. Everyone has their breaking point,' she revealed.

'Life is short. It's not all about filming this show.'

Good times! This is Kourtney's first longterm relationship follow her break up with her ex-boyfriend Scott Disick