She tied the knot with Matthew Koma in an intimate backyard wedding less than 24 hours ago.

And Hilary Duff and her new husband were seen for the first time after their nuptials on Sunday.

The couple were pictured with their one-year-old daughter Banks Violet in Los Angeles.

Doting mommy: Hilary Duff, 32, looked relaxed and casual in a camel-colored baggy sweater and black pants as she stowed Banks in her car

Matthew flashed his gold wedding band as he held the car door open for his new wife.

Hilary, 32, looked relaxed and casual in a camel-colored baggy sweater and black pants as she stowed the tot in the back of her car.

They were later seen stopping into a cafe for two iced coffees.

The beautiful blonde was remarkably laid back considering she got married the day before in an intimate candle-lit ceremony in the garden of their Beverly Hills home just before sunset, according to E! News.

After the 20-minute ceremony, the Lizzie McGuire star thanked everyone for their good wishes, while her son Luca, seven, and Banks took the mic to make an announcement of their own.

Man and wife! Matthew Koma, 32, assisted Hilary as she carried their little tot to their car

Ring bling! The newlywed flashed his gold wedding band as he strolled to their car

Beautiful sparklers: Hilary showed off the diamonds in her engagement ring and her fitted wedding ring

'They thanked everyone for being there and then yelled, Party!' an eyewitness told E! News. 'Everyone erupted in laughter and got a big kick out of them.'

That was the signal for the music to start. The dinner and dancing portion of the evening was held in a large tent.

Meanwhile, Matthew shared a snap of himself playing a computer game in a black tuxedo and bow tie in the back of a car before the nuptials,

This is Hilary's second marriage. She was married to Luca's dad, hockey player Mike Comrie, between 2010 and 2016.

Proud momma: Hilary carried her little girl who looked adorable in dungarees and a light blue sweater with colorful bobbles down the arms