Married At First Sight's Jo McPharlin has continued her stunning transformation.

After sharing her secrets to slimming down in July, the 42-year-old has now lost even more weight, and is barely recognisable from her time on reality TV in 2018.

In one recent Instagram picture, the mum-of-two looked sensational in a wrap maxi dress, which accentuated her svelte waistline.

Wow! Married At First Sight's Jo McPharlin, 42, has continued her extreme weight loss and is now slimmer than ever before. Pictured: Left Jo in March, right Jo in December

Speaking to Daily Mail Australia in July, the Adelaide-based star revealed the one secret behind her jaw-dropping transformation - and it doesn't involve a gym.

'I'm just a flat out mum of two busy kids, working three jobs and now being a lot more organised with my eating,' said Jo of her diet.

'Instead of zipping through drive-through takeaways after work [each night], I make food that I can freeze to reheat easily when I get home.'

Stunning! After sharing her secrets to slimming down in July, the 42-year-old has lost even more weight, and is barely recognisable from her time on reality TV. Pictured: Jo in July

The shrinking bride! 'I'm just a flat out mum of two busy kids, working three jobs and now being a lot more organised with my eating,' said Jo of her diet in July. Pictured: Jo in September 2017

When asked just how much weight she has lost, Jo continued: 'I have no idea, I haven't had scales in my house for over 10 years now.'

Discussing her transformation further, Jo concluded: 'I just know that all my clothes fit so much better now. I'm still totally me, just a bit thinner.'

In an Instagram video in August, Jo added that cutting out junk food and sugary beverages helped her shed several dress sizes.

Home cooked! Jo added that, 'Instead of zipping through drive-through takeaways after work, I make food that I can freeze to reheat easily when I get home.' Pictured: Jo in September

Cutting out! In an Instagram video in August, Jo added that cutting out junk food and sugary beverages helped her shed several dress sizes. Pictured: Jo in September 2017

'All I've done different is meal plan,' she explained. 'I've stopped the junk food, I've stopped the soft drinks, I've stopped the Mother energy drinks.'

She continued: 'I basically just drink water. I haven't really gone out that much to have the odd beer or two that I like either.'

Jo, who has worked as a plus-size model this year, also insisted that confidence is key to looking and feeling good.

'Love who you are, love the skin you're in,' she said. 'People see confident before they see anything - even if you're rocking a size 30.'

On Married At First Sight's season five last year, Jo was memorably rejected at the altar by her on-screen 'husband' Sean Donnelly.

'Love the skin you're in': Jo, who has worked as a plus-size model this year, also insisted that confidence is key to looking and feeling good. Pictured: Jo doing a runway show in January