The Professional Footballers' Association has called for a government inquiry into racism within football after Chelsea defender Antonio Rudiger was allegedly the latest victim of racial abuse on Sunday.

Rudiger reported being targeted by monkey chants during the second half of the 2-0 win at Tottenham on Sunday - where there were three stadium announcements saying that 'racist behaviour among spectators is interfering with the game'.

Sky Sports pundit Graeme Souness slammed organisations like the PFA and the Premier League for a failure to stamp racism out of the game for good in the aftermath of the game.

Chelsea defender Antonio Rudiger was allegedly the latest victim of racial abuse on Sunday

In response, the PFA took to Twitter to defend itself and called on the government to launch a full-scale inquiry into the subject.

Their tweets said: 'Following the events at today’s Tottenham Hotspur v Chelsea game, we are disgusted and dismayed that once again, a Premier League fixture has been tainted by abuse from the stands towards players.

'Racism has no place in football or society. It is deeply disappointing that some fans continue to display vulgar racist gestures and chants from the stands.

'It has become clear that football players are on the receiving end of the blatant racism that is currently rife in the UK, but they are not alone. The PFA stands beside every player who faces discrimination. We will continue to fight on their behalf to combat this issue for good.

Chelsea defender Antonio Rudiger appeared to suggest he was racially abused vs Tottenham

Rudiger made a monkey gesture as he gave an indication of the abuse he said he received

'Football is part of the fabric of British society. With the huge global audience that English football attracts, we have a responsibility to lead the way with a zero-tolerance policy.

'Racist abuse in football is not just an issue for black and ethnic minority players, it is an issue for everyone who loves the game.

'Whilst the protocols in place ensured stadium announcements were executed today, we need to ensure the perpetrators are identified and dealt with according to the law.

'We believe that the time has come for all governing bodies to unite collectively to end this abuse. Tonight, the PFA calls for a government enquiry (sic) into racism within football and encourage the establishment of an All-Party Group at the Department of Culture Media and Sport.

'All football stakeholders must work in partnership with police and clubs to drive this issue and accelerate solutions. As always, the PFA extends our full support to Antonio Rüdiger and any player who has suffered racist abuse. We will not allow this to continue.

'Now more than ever we must unite and stand strong and together to confront, challenge and eradicate racist abuse in our stadiums and in our country.'

Graeme Souness slammed governing bodies for doing 'absolutely nothing' to tackle racism

Souness slammed the Premier League and other governing bodies of football in the UK for doing 'absolutely nothing' to tackle racism in the wake of the latest controversy.

Police have investigated claims of racism involving fans of Chelsea, Manchester City and Burnley in the past 12 months.

Afterwards Souness told Sky Sports: 'Obviously it’s a minority but the fact no one is digging them out suggests there is an acceptance in certain parts of society. It has to be self regulating where the good guys get them out of here.

'Two weeks ago we were in Brighton for LGBT and we were talking about the PFA turning a blind eye, I remember with my old teammate they didn’t want to help. They have done a miserable job of it at times long before you boys played.

'So I think they have a big big part to play, what do they do about these causes? Absolutely nothing.

'They’re more interested in selling TV rights and raking in the money.'