Residents in bushfire ravaged communities will be left without power over Christmas as power lines continue to be destroyed by blazes.

About 900 homes in the Blue Mountains have been struct by power outages as the out-of-control Gospers Mountain fire bears down on homes.

Endeavour Energy has encouraged their customers in bushfire prone areas of New South Wales to seek alternative accommodation amid the the conditions.

About 900 homes in the Blue Mountains have been struct by power outages as the out-of-control Gospers Mountain fire bears down on homes. Picture: Firefighter works to control blaze at Bilpin on Thursday

'The catastrophic fire conditions in the past 24 hours has caused significant new damage to powerlines across a large area,' a spokesman said.

'The network will need to be rebuilt from the ground up in several locations, with more than 100 power poles needing to be replaced.

'People without power from bushfires should consider finding alternative accommodation where possible.

'Based on the latest scope of damage, approximately 250 customers will not have power back before Christmas in outlying remote areas.'

The spokesman added repairs are being 'hampered' by the continued fire activity.

'Endeavour Energy is working closely with the Rural Fire Service to obtain access to scope damage and commence repairs where it is safe to do so,' the spokesman said.

Those in parts of Clarence, Dargan, Mt Wilson, Mt Irvine, Hartley, Bilpin and around Rylstone are not expected to have their power back by Christmas Day.

The huge Gospers Mountain fire is burning northwest of Sydney, with Lithgow and areas along the Bells Line of Road in the upper Blue Mountains hit the hardest.

About 1,600 homes in South Australia have also been left without power.

Residents in bushfire ravaged communities will be left without power over Christmas as power lines continue to be destroyed by blazes. Pictured: A burnt Christmas decoration lies on the ground in front of a house recently destroyed by bushfires on the outskirts of the town of Bargo on December 21

Pictured: A property is lost as The Gospers Mountain Fire at Bilpin on Saturday

There were 3,000 customers in the Adelaide Hills facing power outages on Sunday evening as devastating bushfires swept through the region.

SA Power Networks said crews were working in a number of areas to restore electricity supply.

But it says the timeframe to have all power restored is unclear, and in some cases it could take several days depending on access and the extent of the damage.

The company said it had already identified a number of spots where trees had fallen on powerlines.

'Anyone in fire-damaged areas is urged to keep clear of power poles and wires as there may still be some that haven't been inspected,' it said.