Jeffrey Epstein's brother Mark (pictured) fears his life could be in danger as he suspects that the billionaire pedophile's death may have been a homicide

Jeffrey Epstein's brother fears his life may be in danger amid speculation that the billionaire pedophile's suicide could have been staged.

Dr Michael Baden, the private pathologist investigating Jeffrey Epstein's death, revealed Mark Epstein's concerns for his own safety during an appearance on The Cats Roundtable radio show Sunday morning.

'Mark, the brother, his concern is that he wants to know if it's suicide, or if it's homicide,' Baden told host John Castimatidis. 'Because, if it's homicide, then his life may also be in danger.'

New York City Chief Medical Examiner Dr Barbara Sampson ruled Jeffrey's death a suicide after he was found hanged in his cell at Manhattan's Metropolitan Correctional Center in early August.

Mark hired Baden to oversee the autopsy as he questioned whether one of the financier's high profile associates implicated in his alleged sex trafficking ring could have played a role.

Baden, who served as New York City's chief medical examiner in the late 1970s, has asserted that three fracture's in Jeffrey's neck are more consistent with homicide by strangulation than suicide.

Dr Michael Baden, the private pathologist investigating Jeffrey Epstein's death, revealed Mark Epstein's concerns for his own safety during an appearance on The Cats Roundtable radio show Sunday morning. Baden is pictured on November 13

Speaking to Castimatidis on Sunday, Baden said Mark believes it's possible that the person who targeted Jeffrey may target him as well.

Jeffrey Epstein was found hanged in his cell at Metropolitan Correctional Center on August 10. His death was ruled a suicide

'Because his brother knew too much, and, whoever [killed Jeffrey] might then think [Mark] knows too much, even though his life was entirely different than his brother's,' Baden said.

'The brother who hired me to be present at the autopsy is concerned as to whether or not his life is in danger from this.'

Baden added that Mark has requested information from New York authorities about Jeffrey's death.

'It's five months now [and] why the dead body has been removed from the cell, destroying the ability to do any forensic investigation hasn't been explained so the family is waiting for more information,' the pathologist said.

Baden released images from Jeffrey Epstein's autopsy during a bombshell interview (pictured) with Fox and Friends in early November, discrediting the New York City Medical Examiner's Office ruling of suicide by hanging

The three fractures Epstein sustained are seen in the diagram above

The pathologist described how the 66-year-old financier had two fractures - one on the left and another on the right sides of his larynx, around the Adam's apple. A microscopic view of two fractures (circled) on the left and right of Epstein's thyroid

Epstein also had a fracture on the left hyoid bone that is above the Adam's apple

Baden released images from Jeffrey Epstein's autopsy during a bombshell interview with Fox and Friends in early November, discrediting the New York City Medical Examiner's Office ruling of suicide by hanging.

The pathologist - who has worked on cases involving OJ Simpson, President John F Kennedy, Phil Spector, Aaron Hernandez and more - described how the 66-year-old financier had two fractures - one on the left and another on the right sides of his larynx, around the Adam's apple.

Epstein also had a fracture on the left hyoid bone that is above the Adam's apple, Baden explained.

'Those three fractures are extremely unusual in suicidal hangings and could occur much more commonly in homicidal strangulation,' Baden said, adding that signs of a possible homicide had been evident from 'day one' of the autopsy.

'I've not seen in 50 years where that occurred in a suicidal hanging case,' he said

Sampson responded to Baden's claims by saying she stands 'firmly' behind her findings and that the autopsy puts any speculation about Epstein's death firmly to rest.

'Our investigation concluded that the cause of Mr Epstein's death was hanging and the manner of death was suicide. We stand by that determination,' Sampson said in a comment.

'We continue to share information around the medical investigation with Mr. Epstein's family, their representatives, and their pathology consultant. The original medical investigation was thorough and complete. There is no reason for a second medical investigation by our office.'

Coroners are seen removing Epstein's body from MCC on August 10

EPSTEIN CHIEF MEDICAL EXAMINER REFUTES PATHOLOGIST'S 'HOMICIDE' CLAIMS New York City Chief Medical Examiner Dr. Barbara Sampson declared in a statement on Wednesday that she stands 'firmly' behind her findings. 'Our investigation concluded that the cause of Mr. Epstein’s death was hanging and the manner of death was suicide. We stand by that determination. 'We continue to share information around the medical investigation with Mr. Epstein's family, their representatives, and their pathology consultant. The original medical investigation was thorough and complete. There is no reason for a second medical investigation by our office.' New York City Chief Medical Examiner Dr. Barbara Sampson

In retort, however, Baden insists Sampson could have 'made a mistake', insisting 'there's evidence here of homicide that should be investigated, to see if it is or isn't homicide'.

Baden described that a person weighing 120lbs - with a head weight of 10lbs - would have 110lbs of pressure on their neck at the jaw during a hanging. However, the pathologist described that double or triple the pressure could be applied to the neck if a person was to squeeze.

He added that there were also hemorrhages in Epstein's eyes that were consistent in homicide strangulation yet uncommon - but not unheard of - in strangulation cases.

'The prominent hemorrhage in the soft tissues of the neck next to the fractures is evidence of a fresh neck compression that could have caused the death,' he said.

The pathologist asserted that a conclusion could not be reached until the independent study was completed.

'The investigation is not completed until all the information has come in,' he said.

Baden alleged a twisted sheet could have been the ligature placed around Epstein's neck, and said that evidence on the cloth may provide insight into the details surrounding the sex offender's death at the Metropolitan Correctional facility.

'Whoever it is would have their DNA all over the ligature,' he said. 'We don't have those results yet.'

Baden declared that the results 'should be reported quickly to give an idea and lessen the speculation'.

He noted that Epstein had been placed on suicide watch after he was found on the floor of his prison cell on July 23 with marks around his neck.

After being taken off of suicide watch, he was placed in a cell with a roommate who was eventually removed.

And on the day of his death, Baden described that there was a 'total breakdown' in procedure experienced by prison security.

'It was determined that the two guards who were supposed to be working in that area of the prison had allegedly fallen asleep and hadn't made their 30-minute rounds for more than 3 hours,' the pathologist explained.

Security cameras in the facility were also compromised, Baden said.

Questions remain as to why the high-profile pedophile was taken off suicide watch so soon after this July suicide attempt, and why he was not being properly monitored by MCC employees at the time of his death.

His death prompted outrage and disbelief over how such a high-profile prisoner, known for socializing with powerful people including presidents Donald Trump and Bill Clinton, could have been left without surveillance at the federal facility.

Epstein was awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges.