The ex-husband of Rebecca Gibney, American-born Australian singer Jack Jones (real name Irwin Thomas), has purchased a 1904-built former Methodist church in Victoria.

Jack, who was the lead singer of the 90s band Southern Sons, snapped up the rural church conversion in Natte Yallock for $270,000.

On the market for more than two years, the 48-year-old musician told the Herald Sun he felt 'very privileged' to own the property.

Holy moley! Rebecca Gibney's ex, American-born Australian singer Jack Jones, has snapped of a converted 1904-built Methodist church in Victoria for $270,000 to use as a private studio

Pictured: Jack - real name Irwin Thomas - was the lead singer of the 90s band Southern Sons (Pictured in November, 2017)

Built by locals using handmade bricks, the building has retained much of its original features and charms.

The converted church still had its arched leadlight windows, wooden floors and a cathedral ceiling, with the addition of a modest extension at the back.

Surrounded by paddocks of canola crop and views of the Pyrenees Ranges, the homestead is zoned as Farming (FZ) and can sleep six or more.

Original charm: The converted church still had its arched leadlight windows, wooden floors and a cathedral ceiling, with the addition of a modest extension at the back

Jack, who was previously married to Rebecca Gibney for three years in the early 90s, purchased the property from American-Australian singer Joe Dolce - known for hit Shaddap You Face.

Joe and his artist partner Lin Van Hek had owned the one-bedroom property as a weekender for 25 years after buying it on a whim while passing through the remote town on a country drive.

'I love the fact Joe and his missus have owned the property, and it’s been in the hands of artistic and creative people. I feel very privileged to be taking that further,' Jack told the Herald Sun.

Artist retreat: American-Australian singer Joe Dolce (above), known for hit Shaddap You Face, had previously owned the one-bedroom property as a weekender for 25 years

He told the publication he was hoping to use the converted church foremost as a recording studio for his music: 'It’s a beautiful space (with) great sound.'

As a 'country boy at heart', Jack said he would hope to eventually build a family house on the 4100sq m block.

Jack recently toured Australia on a 11-show reunion tour for Southern Sons - including visiting Victoria in late November.