Anthony Watson, Jonathan Joseph, Tom Homer, Josh McNally, Elliott Stooke and Matt Garvey all had stints at the yo-yoing hosts but combined to rip their former employers apart.

Watson scored in his first appearance for a month, having returned early from a knee injury, and Bath’s first win in five allows them to breathe little sighs of relief and takes them into the Premiership’s squeezed middle.

‘He’s done brilliantly,’ said Bath director of rugby Stuart Hooper of Watson’s recovery. 'He’s worked incredibly hard to not just get back but get back performing too. Some of his sprinting, chasing the ball down, made tries for us. That’s not a guy scraping back from injury.'

Bath prop Beno Obano bundled over as the visitors scored five tries in the first-half on Sunday

'The last month has been a challenge. The lads' belief has remained throughout.'

Bath had managed only six tries in their first five Premiership games but within half an hour had come within one of that total.

First Bath’s pack whacked on and Beno Obano bundled over, then Watson hacked on and hared after a Stephen Myler pass that hit the deck, picked it up near the line and scored.

Then Semesa Rokoduguni strolled in on the right for his 50th Premiership try in 111 games after the forwards had tied in Irish numbers on the other side.

England wing Anthony Watson hacked on an overthrown Irish line-out and slid in for a try

Next Bath were handed a penalty try on a plate as Irish No 8 Albert Tuisue cynically caught a pass from an offside position destined for Jamie Roberts as he scrambled back to his line.

As the centre was certain to score, Karl Dickson gave a penalty try and a yellow card. Irish conceded again — and regardless of the numerical advantage this was a peach of a try.

Joseph, Tom Ellis, Rokoduguni and Joseph again gloriously provided the opening through a series of offloads and then Will Chudley caught the final pass and scored. At this point the game was over and, just to make it worse Irish had lost Paddy Jackson, Terrence Hepetema, and his replacement Tom Fowlie all to injury.

Bath winger Semesa Rokoduguni strolled in for his 50th Premiership try in 111 games

After the resumption it did not improve. Myler scudded a terrible kick, Homer intercepted it and ran 85 metres to score Bath’s sixth.

As if to sum up their stupor, when replacement scrum-half Nick Phipps tried to up the pace his pass hit James Stokes flush in the face. The howls of laughter cut right through the Christmas cheer.

The home crowd could at least smile when lock Adam Coleman went over but even after Bath prop Christian Judge was sin-binned for a tip-tackle Irish struggled, so much so that when centre Tom Stephenson limped off he was replaced by No 8 Matt Rogerson and flanker Blair Cowan finished the game in the backs.

London Irish director of rugby Declan Kidney said: 'Days like that will happen again, unless we fix things that are in our control.'