Advertisement

They made headlines in 2014 when they announced they would be 'consciously uncoupling'.

And since then, Gwyneth Paltrow, 47, and Chris Martin, 42, have proved to be two of the most amicable exes ever, frequently spotted holidaying and spending time together with their new lovers.

That was the case once again on Sunday, with the Goop founder tagging along with Chris and girlfriend Dakota Johnson, 30, while in Aspen, Colorado, during a day at the snow.

Scroll down for videos

Friendly exes! Gwyneth Paltrow was seen hitting the slopes in Aspen with her ex-husband, Chris Martin and his girlfriend, Dakota Johnson, on Sunday

Gwyneth was all rugged up in a black ski jacket and matching snow pants for the outing.

She teamed the look with snow boots, eye mask and helmet for full protection while on the slopes.

The Academy Award and Golden Globe winner was seen at the Snowmass ski resort and walked behind her ex husband and his long-term on-and-off actress girlfriend.

Keeping warm: Gwyneth was all rugged up in a black ski jacket and matching snow pants for the outing

All rugged up: Chris dressed similarly to Gwyneth in a black insulated puffer jacket and a black pair of ski pants

Braving the freezing weather: He added a beanie to his look and walked arm-in-arm with Dakota Johnson

Just like mom! Gwyneth's look-a-like teenage daughter, Apple, 15, was also present with her mom and dad

Gwyn's mini-me: Apple wore ski boots and a mask like her mom and kept warm with a white coat

Chris dressed similarly to Gwyneth in a black insulated puffer jacket and a black pair of ski pants.

He added a beanie to his look and walked arm-in-arm with Dakota Johnson.

The Fifty Shades of Grey beauty showcased her stylish fashion in an oversized sweater underneath a black woolen overcoat.

Ready to go: Gwyn teamed the look with an eye mask and helmet for full protection while on the slopes

She's ready for action! Gwyneth appeared to be hitting the slopes with her protection gear and professional ski boots

Stunner: The Fifty Shades of Grey beauty showcased her stylish fashion in an oversized sweater underneath a black woolen overcoat

Family affair: The friendly exes and Dakota were also joined by their kids, Apple, 15, and Moses, 13

She teamed her ensemble with blue denim jeans. And despite the minus degree temperatures, she opted for a pair that was distressed with a split in the knee.

Dakota also accessorised with a cream colored beanie and shades and appeared to be in high spirits as she laughed and talked to the Coldplay singer.

The trio were also joined by the former couple's children, Apple, 15, and Moses, 13.

Not seen on Sunday was Gwyneth's husband, Brad Falchuk.

Mother-daughter-bonding: Apple was seen speaking to her mom while at the car

Back together: Chris and Dakota rekindled their love earlier in the year following a short split

How does she do it? Despite the minus degree temperatures, she opted for a pair that was distressed with a split in the knee

It comes after Gwyneth revealed earlier in the year that she walks to Chris 'every single day.'

She told ES Magazine at the time that while their 2016 divorce was 'difficult', they were not in a great place.

'I think we've managed to really stay a family,' she told the publication.

'Chris is a very close friend. I see him every day, I talk to him every day. And it [the divorce] was very difficult, but I think you see in the children that they got through it, so I am proud of us, I really am.'

Enjoying his time in the snow! Chris walked around the ski resort with quite a big smile on his face

Close friends: It comes after Gwyneth revealed earlier in the year that she walks to Chris 'every single day'

Braving that Aspen weather: At one point Dakota appeared to be putting on some lip balm on her chilly and chapped lips while walking along with Chris

She continued to celebrate the fact that they had managed to put their children first through the tough time.

'We kept to our commitment that we would put the children first.'

Her confession comes after the Goop founder rang in 2019 in the Maldives with her kids, Chris, Dakota, as well as her new husband Brad Falchuk and a group of family friends.

Not their first trip together: Chris, Gwyneth, Brad and Dakota all rang in 2019 in the Maldives with their kids and friends

Making it work: The Coldplay singer has been dating the actress since October 2017 and appear to be going stronger than ever

Heating up: Dakota was seen keeping cozy with a warm drink in hand

'It was a very modern honeymoon,' actress turned lifestyle guru Gwyneth laughed as she was interviewed on Live With Kelly and Ryan in January.

The modern family all jetted out before Christmas and spent the festive break altogether.

Gwyneth and Chris tied the knot in 2003, but later announced their separation, telling fans they were 'consciously uncoupling' in 2014.

Moving on: Before Dakota, Chris dated Jennifer Lawrence following his split from Gwyneth