Holly Willougbhy excited fans with her extremely low cut dress on the Dancing On Ice Christmas special.

Viewers on Twitter went wild when Holly stepped out in the dress with her presenting partner Phillip Schofield on Sunday night's show.

The presenter, 38, wowed in the maxi dress, which gave an ample view of her assets, prompting one viewer to ask if she was wearing her dress 'back to front'.

Wow: Holly Willougbhy, 38, excited fans with her extremely low cut dress on the Dancing On Ice Christmas special on Sunday

They wrote: 'Stouthearted! Holly's got her dress on back to front #DancingOnIce'.

Another alluded to her nickname on Celebrity Juice, writing: 'I see Holly's got her Willowboobies Out.'

A third wrote: 'Holly’s dress is rather distracting. #DancingOnIce.'

And a fourth besotted fan added: 'Christ on a bike! Holly Willoughby might as well be topless wearing a dress like that! #Dancing On Ice'.

Duo: Holly revealed the dress on national TV when she stepped out with her co-presenter Phillip Schofield, 57

Humour: Dozens of fans were bowled over by the dress, with one joking that Holly had her 'Willowboobies' out

The festive special saw Ian 'H' Watkins and Matt Evers make history when they debuted as the show's first ever same-sex pairing.

Moments after the ITV special aired, 43-year-old Steps star Ian took to Instagram to share an emotional post, in which he revealed he was brought to tears.

Alongside a snapshot of himself and Matt, 43, he wrote: 'Tonight has been emotional. I’ve cried tears of joy! Never did I think this would happen. But tonight, Matt & I have made a little piece of history!'

Amazing: Holly extremely low cut glittering evening gown left viewers stunned

He continued: 'Thankyou for all your messages of support and for letting me be my authentic self. Thanks to @itv for championing the LGBTQ community and its ally’s.

'Now the hard work begins.. I promise we won’t let you down! #dancingonice #doi2020#samesexiceskating #lgbt #lgbtq #TeamHandMatt #HandMatt.'

A host of stars from the upcoming series, which is set to kick off in January, made appearances on the show, as well as past celebrity competitors.

Making history: (L-R) Ian 'H' Watkins and Matt Evers made history during Dancing On Ice's Christmas special on Sunday, when they debuted as the show's first ever same-sex pairing

Emotional moment: Moments after the ITV special aired, 43-year-old Steps star Ian took to Instagram to share an emotional post, in which he revealed he was brought to tears

But singer Ian and his professional skater partner Matt effortlessly stole the show as they triumphantly stepped out onto the ice together during the special.

Fans took to Twitter in droves to express how moved they were by having witnessed the groundbreaking moment, with some even suggesting they were moved to tears.

Tweeted one viewer: 'Massive #respect to you two gentlemen for breaking a barrier that needed breaking by doing this partnership in @dancingonice. Good luck to you two next January! Brilliant!'

Praise: Fans took to Twitter in droves to express how moved they were by having witnessed the groundbreaking moment, with some even suggesting they were moved to tears

Stealing the show: Ian and his professional skater partner Matt effortlessly stole the show as they triumphantly stepped out onto the ice together during the special

Great to see a same sex couple to dance this series,' stated another. 'I think it will come with its criticism as viewers don’t always react well to "changes" but as a gay man myself, I see no difference. Everyone should be able to work with who they wish! Love is love!'

Wrote a third fan of the show: 'Love this!!! It’s given me so much joy to finally see same sex partnerships normalised. Good luck guys - we will be voting for ya.'

Addressing the naysayers on the micro-blogging site, another viewer said: 'I'm a HUGE fan of Matt amazing skater and amazing bloke, I am nothing but excited for this partnership.

'I can't see why some people aren't, at the end of the day why does it matter, how does it actually make a difference to the skate?! I really think people need to embrace it.'