More and more of us are becoming multi-hyphenate workers, making our career ‘side-hustle’ into a reality at the same time as a traditional 9-5 job.

Just like Asian food extraordinaire Shu Han Lee, who is an expert in ad strategy during the day but spends her evenings cooking up a storm in the kitchen.

When she moved to London from Singapore 10 years ago, graphic design student Shu began teaching herself how to cook Southeast Asian specialties while studying at Central St Martin’s.

Busy: Ad strategist and chef extraordinaire Shu Han Lee relies on her laptop

And, through hosting supper clubs for friends, experimenting with flavours and creating her own adventurous recipes, she went on to write her first cookbook, Chicken And Rice, at the same time as studying for a Masters degree in business.

Proving herself the ultimate multi-tasker, she now juggles a high-flying career in advertising with a spice paste business, Rempapa, which she runs from her home kitchen, developing the flavours as well as the branding and business development.

But none of this would be possible, she says, without the technology that enables her to work productively whenever and wherever, to design her ideal work life.

Here, chef Shu reveals how the new HP Spectre 13 x360 convertible 2-in-1 laptop, with a 10th Gen Intel® Core™ i7 processor, helps her adapts to two completely unique careers, day or night, and why she thinks the device is perfect for other multi-hyphen entrepreneurs.

Many strings to her bow: Shu runs the spice paste business Rempapa from her home kitchen

‘If I’m not asleep, I’m using my laptop,’ Shu tells MailOnline. ‘I’m pretty much dependent on it, whether I’m in meetings, which can be in or out of the office, in my advertising role or working on a recipe at home.

‘Carrying a 2-in1 device like this is like having a laptop and a tablet with you at all times. If I’m in a casual meeting, it’s useful to transform the device into tent mode and prop it up on the desk, where I can share a presentation deck with a colleague without having to balance the device on my lap.

‘And that’s also handy at the kitchen worktop, when I might need to refer to a video or notes I’ve been making for a new dish.’

From the boardroom to the kitchen, portability is top priority for Shu, who needs to be able to slip into work mode in a variety of different environments.

She says: ‘It’s important for me to have a lightweight, ultra-compact device that I can not only carry with me but use for a variety of tasks across the day. The laptop is slim enough to slot into my handbag, without needing to carry a separate tote and, with 15+ hours of battery life, it lasts long enough to leave the charger at home.

Chef: Shu wrote her first cookbook, Chicken and Rice, while studying for a Masters degree

‘I don’t even need to pack a separate port to connect it to my phone, because it’s got USB compatible ports, which is rare to find on a device this slim.’

With so much to get through each day, it’s important that Shu can reach peak productivity, therefore a fast processor is an essential when it comes to her device.

The HP Spectre 13 x360 has a 10th Gen Intel® Core™ i7 processor, which learns and adapt to what the user does to help get things done faster and more fluidly.

Shu says: ‘It's a real joy to use because it can handle a lot of information at one time.

'Throughout the day, I’m always using a lot of images on my laptop as well as operating heavy-duty programs such as Adobe Illustrator or Photoshop with my emails open in the background. This level of processing power gives me peace of mind that my laptop can keep up.

The new HP Spectre 13 x360 convertible 2-in-1 laptop, featuring a 10th Gen Intel® Core™ i7 processor

‘For such a compact and portable device, I didn’t think it would be possible for it to function this quickly.’

Not only does a compact device like this take up less counterspace and avoid the inconvenience of long charger wires but it’s the practical features that prove just how ‘intelligent’ this laptop really is, Shu says.

‘Luckily, this device does a lot of the thinking for me. It automatically shifts to tablet or desktop mode seamlessly, depending on which way I’m holding it, which is a really smart and intuitive feature that makes it feel like it knows what I want all the time.

‘When I’m cooking, the facial recognition feature is ideal for going hands-free. When your laptop inevitably sleeps, you only need to look into the camera for it to wake up again, you don’t have to go back to wash your hands every time to key in your password.

'It sounds like a small thing but it’s those little touches that make this device really useful as a chef, as well as being a great security feature for peace of mind with sensitive information in my day job.’

Clever touch: Shu loves the way she can wake up her laptop by simply looking into the camera

After all of that, Shu finds time to unwind with Netflix in the evenings, using her multi-purpose, all-rounder device as the ideal personal entertainment system.

‘The screen graphics are really incredible,’ Shu says of the 13-inch, near-borderless UHD OLED screen. ‘Watching something is really impressive because of the brilliant colours and vivid visuals. Bingeing on my favourite shows is the perfect way to switch off after a long working day.

‘I believe you need to love using your laptop if you use it as much as I do. It’s the little details and smart technology that makes this one so fun to use, whether I’m indulging my passion or my day job.’

Interested in finding out more about the new HP Spectre 13 x360 convertible 2-in-1 laptop, featuring a 10th Gen Intel® Core™ i7 processor? Click here!