Nigel Pearson believes Watford can pull off another great escape just like he engineered with Leicester the season before they won the title.

The 2-0 victory over Manchester United on Sunday was a first for the new Hornets boss — and finally ended a club-record run of 12 Premier League home games without a win.

'To be sitting here on December 22, and that's our first home win, it's incredible really,' said Pearson, who conceded his side played better in defeat by Liverpool last week.

Nigel Pearson (middle) has belief that Watford can pull off a great escape to avoid relegation

The Hornets got their first home win of the season by beating Manchester United on Sunday

'I felt today was going to be really important for us as a football club if we could achieve a win. I have seen lots to encourage myself that we are capable.

'We have to sustain our positive intent and our ability to go into these types of games and perform. We are in a difficult situation but I believe we can get out of it. The situation we are in, we have do anything we can to win a game.

'I thought the players committed to the game exceptionally well. I'll be very confident we can get out of this situation.'

Pearson rescued Leicester from the drop when they were seven points from safety back in 2015 but on Sunday he was given a helping hand by David de Gea's mistake.

Manchester United goalkeeper David de Gea made a major error to enable Watford's victory

'Errors always happen in games and I said to the players I would take a scruffy 1-0 win,' Pearson said.

'I thought we did some good things, deserved to win the game and there is more to come. We've been unfortunate at times this season. We have to concentrate on ourselves and not worry what other people are doing. We have to set standards we are aiming for.'

Watford are still bottom of the table but captain Troy Deeney said the players could handle the situation.

'Real pressure is watching my mum work three jobs trying to make ends meet for Christmas. This is football,' he said.

Ole Gunnar Solskjaer was livid with his team for playing as if it was a testimonial. The United boss insisted there were no excuses for his side's defeat which leaves them eighth heading into Christmas.

'The first half could have easily been my testimonial,' Solksjaer said. 'Maybe it would have been a better atmosphere in my testimonial to be fair.

Pearson (left) wants his players to attack every game with the same determination as Sunday

'It was very subdued, slow, no tempo, urgency, any bit of encouragement their crowd got was when we gave them set plays and we gifted them two goals as well in the second half.'

He added: 'The first one is a freak goal, a mistake. The second one as well is a bad mistake making that tackle.'

Since the start of last season, De Gea has made six errors leading to goals in the Premier League. No one has made more.

'It's just a ball that slipped through his hands. A routine save that he makes,' added Solskjaer, who insisted he had 'no bother' with his goalkeeper.

United improved after Paul Pogba made his long-awaited return from injury in the final half hour.

Solskjaer said his display was 'probably the only plus today', adding: 'We know we've started something with the rebuild but today I'm disappointed because we have to come to these stadiums and get more points against teams like this. But there was no intent or urgency to make us deserve to win.'