A savvy shopper has revealed her handy hack when it comes to wrapping presents - and it involves nothing more than a mop and two chairs.

Amanda Coulter, from the UK, shared a snap, which she is believed to have first seen on Snapchat, to Facebook group Extreme Budget DIY & Life Hacks.

The image shows a mop handle slid into a roll of wrapper paper. The end of the roll is then placed through two chairs to keep it secure, ensuring she can pull out as much paper as she needs without it pining back as soon as she lets go.

And many were quick to take to the comments section praising the mother for posting the handy hack - with one simply branding the concept 'smart.'

'What a brilliant idea,' enthused one, while a second joked: 'Why wasn't this posted a few weeks ago? That would of saved me drinking 3 bottles of wine!!'

Amanda Coulter, from the UK, shared the handy hack to Facebook group Extreme Budget DIY & Life Hacks (pictured)

Amanda, who 'hates wrapping presents at the best of times,' told how she shared the hack to make present wrapping easier (pictured)

A third commented: 'Very good idea,' while a fourth agreed: 'Wow that's a great idea hun.'

In the initial caption, Amanda penned: 'I hate wrapping presents at the best of times. No more paper rolling back at you.'

'A simple mop handle stops me from loosing my S**t.'

She told how she had seen the idea and thought it'd be nice to share as she hates wrapping, before admitting: 'It really does work.. My saviour.'

The initial post shows the mop handles placed inbetween two chairs to ensure it's secure and won't just ping back (pictured)

Many impressed social media users were quick to take to the comments section, before praising the 'very good idea'

In response, one person wrote: 'I saw it and thought it was a brilliant idea. Wish I had seen it before wrapping everything though.'

Meanwhile, others revealed they were experiencing other problems when it came to wrapping up their gifts ahead of Christmas.

'My gripe was the sellotape sticking to everything but the parcel. Lots of people getting half my carpet with their gift,' wrote one, while a second commented:

'Get a cello tape dispenser and you are sorted.'

A third decided on an even easier option and explained: 'Got so much to wrap this year I’m thinking of gift bags instead.'