EastEnders star Kellie Bright downed multiple shots and filmed herself being sick to prepare for a 'dark and dangerous' Christmas storyline involving her alcoholic character Linda Carter.

The scenes will see Linda, who is married to Mick Carter (Danny Dyer), go on a drinking binge over the festive period, which will come to a head on New Year's Day.

Intent on making the drama authentic, Kellie, 43, downed six shots (the same as Linda) and filmed the aftermath - which saw her throw up and pass out.

Shock: EastEnders star Kellie Bright, 43, downed shots and filmed herself being sick to prepare for a 'dark and dangerous' Christmas storyline involving her alcoholic character Linda Carter

Speaking to The Sun about the experience, Kellie said: 'Within 45 minutes I had passed out and was sick! But those videos were so valuable.

'Every five minutes I filmed myself doing my lines and I was repeating myself the whole time.'

Kellie went on to talk about the frightening storyline itself, saying Linda's scenes were 'pretty out there and unbelievable'.

She told Star TV Life Magazine: 'When she's drunk, you see a side to her that you've not seen before.

The scenes will see Linda, go on a drinking binge over the festive period, which will come to a head on New Year's Day

'It's very unpredictable, dark and dangerous.

'What she does while under the influence of alcohol is pretty horrendous,' she added.

The soap's bosses confirmed the shocking storyline back in September.

Executive Producer Jon Sen said: 'This autumn the Carters will face one of their biggest crises to date when Linda turns to alcohol to escape the increasing pressures of her family life.

'In telling Linda’s story we hope that anyone in Linda’s situation or those around them notice the signs of alcoholism and seek the help needed.'

The plot is also said to look at 'feeling the pressure to drink'.

That's a lot: Intent on making the drama authentic, Kellie downed six shots (the same as Linda) and filmed the aftermath - which saw her throw up and pass out (pictured: Linda drinking)

Problem: Kellie went on to talk about the frightening storyline itself, saying Linda's scenes were 'pretty out there and unbelievable' (pictured: Linda drinking on the show)

Drinkaware Chief Executive, Elaine Hindal, said of the storyline: 'Working with EastEnders on this storyline will help us put a spotlight on the potentially harmful result of getting into the habit of drinking regularly.

'Credit to the script writers who are sensitively showing the journey of how easy it can be for someone to develop risky drinking habits.

'Linda’s experiences with alcohol demonstrate why it’s important to be able to recognise signs that you, or someone you care about, could be developing drinking habits that could cause harm to themselves or others.

'Feeling pressure to drink, having a drink to celebrate or drinking to cope or relax – these are all common situations that many adults would recognise. The fact is the overwhelming majority of people don’t have a serious problem with alcohol.

'But it might surprise you to know that you don’t always have to be drinking to extreme levels to become dependent on alcohol. What’s more, regularly drinking above recommended levels can lead to a range of health conditions.'