An announcement was made saying 'racist behaviour is interfering with game'

Graeme Souness slammed the Premier League for doing 'absolutely nothing' to tackle racism in the wake of the latest controversy.

Police have investigated claims of racism involving fans of Chelsea, Manchester City and Burnley in the past 12 months.

On Sunday, Chelsea defender Antonio Rudiger reported being targeted by monkey chants during the second half of the 2-0 win at Tottenham - where there were three stadium announcements saying that 'racist behaviour among spectators is interfering with the game'.

Chelsea defender Antonio Rudiger appeared to suggest he was racially abused vs Tottenham

Afterwards Souness told Sky Sports: 'Obviously it’s a minority but the fact no one is digging them out suggests there is an acceptance in certain parts of society. It has to be self regulating where the good guys get them out of here.

'Two weeks ago we were in Brighton for LGBT and we were talking about the PFA turning a blind eye, I remember with my old teammate they didn’t want to help. They have done a miserable job of it at times long before you boys played.

'So I think they have a big big part to play, what do they do about these causes? Absolutely nothing.

Rudiger made a monkey gesture as he gave an indication of the abuse he said he received

'They’re more interested in selling TV rights and raking in the money.'

Gary Neville added: Ultimately I accepted it, I was in dressing rooms where my team mates got abused and at the time I thought we were footballers we accept it but as I get older I believe football can be a driver for change.

'It can make a difference. It’s been proven to make a difference. Putting an announcement out, holding a poster won’t make a difference.

Rudiger appeared to report racist chanting from Tottenham fans during the second half

Sky Sports pundit Gary Neville suggested players should walk off if they are racially abused

I said the same when I was an England coach and Raheem Sterling was getting abused, it is happening far too often. Back page headlines we are happy to point the finger at Bulgaria but it won’t be on the back page here today.

'The Premier League is watched by 1.5 billion people every weekend. The responsibility is on us to be the force of change. '

Graeme Souness slammed the Premier League for doing 'absolutely nothing' to tackle racism

Tottenham boss Jose Mourinho said he was 'disappointed' with the incident involving Rudiger



