She often commands attention with her showstopping looks on the catwalk.

And Naomi Campbell turned heads away from the catwalk too as she donned a pink wig using a fun filter on Instagram on Sunday.

Captioning the hilarious snap, the supermodel, 49, wrote '#SundaySelfie' alongside heart and unicorn emojis.

Who's that girl: Naomi Campbell showcased her fun side and dons a bright pink wig using a funky filter on Instagram as she took time out from her hectic schedule on Sunday

The image in question sees Naomi sporting the bubblegum pink hair complete with a braid and a blunt fringe.

The amusing filter also saw the star sporting funky sunglasses, pink lips and a heart-shaped choker as she posed for the fun snap.

The image was soon flooded with dozens of messages from fans, who claimed they loved her new look.

Naomi is clearly a fan of pink as just days before she donned a stunning gown in a similar hue to attend the 50th birthday celebrations of P Diddy.

Fun times: Captioning the hilarious snap, the supermodel, 49, wrote '#SundaySelfie' alongside heart and unicorn emojis

The supermodel looked stunning in a sequinned pink gown with a daring thigh-high slash while attending the star-studded event in Los Angeles.

With a cinched waistline, the elegant off-the-shoulder number ensured Naomi showed off her age-defying physique while posing for pictures with the rapper, actor and producer.

The catwalk Queen embellished an already sophisticated look with glittering jewelry, while strappy stiletto heels rounded things off.

It comes after she was recently presented with the Fashion Icon trophy during the star-studded British Fashion Awards at London's historic Royal Albert Hall.

Looking good: Naomi is clearly a fan of pink as just days before she donned a stunning gown in a similar hue to attend the 50th birthday celebrations of P Diddy

Elegant: The supermodel looked stunning in a sequinned pink gown with a daring thigh-high slash while attending the star-studded event in Los Angeles

The model was in tears as she accepted the prize from Sir Jony Ive, before thanking her mother for 'raising me single-handedly'.

Calling it 'an out-of-body experience', Naomi said of her mother: 'You raised me single-handedly, you were my mother and my father.'

Naomi also got teary as she told the crowd: 'I learned today that I'm the first woman of colour to receive this award.

'That leaves me to say who I consider my style icons: Grace Jones, Josephine Baker, Eartha Kitt, Donyale Luna, Bethann Hardison, Naomi Sims, Dorothy Dandridge, Diana Ross, Diahann Carroll, Janet Jackson, and Tina Turner.

'I could go on and on, but I want to thank you for paving the way for me and inspiring a generation.'