Qatar World Cup officials have asked Glastonbury Festival organisers to help them plan desert camp sites for fans ahead of the 2022 tournament, according to The Mirror.

The Middle Eastern country expects approximately 1.6million spectators to visit during the month-long competition, with around 160,000 requiring accommodation.

However, only 70,000 hotel rooms will be available in the capital Doha and two cruise ships will be docked in the port to provide facilities for 40,000.

Qatari officials have asked Glastonbury Festival organisers to help plan desert camp sites

Qatar is getting ready to host the next World Cup to be held in November/December 2022

The iconic Glastonbury Festival hosts 135,000 music fans on Worthy Farm in Somerset

And Qatari officials have revealed they have approached Glastonbury, which hosts 135,000 music fans on Worthy Farm in Somerset, for advice on the planning of large tented villages.

The hosts intend to build campsites on the outskirts of the city, providing licensed bars and restaurants, entertainment and washing facilities.

Ahead of next year's festival, Glastonbury are set to introduce a new official camping area in a bid to reduce waste left onsite.

The Sticklinch campsite will be located in the former West Campervan Fields area at next year's 50th anniversary event, offering 'unpretentious, custom-made and pre-erected accommodation' for those hoping to travel light.

Glastonbury has multiple different camping areas for different atmospheres and Qatari officials hope they can replicate a piece of that come the next World Cup.

Qatari officials hope they can replicate the atmosphere from campsites done at Glastonbury

Hassan al-Thawadi, Secretary General of Qatar's Supreme Committee, says he wants to create a communal tournament atmosphere.

'We want to welcome football behaviour. We want fans to come and sing,' he said.

'What we ask is for the visitors to appreciated our culture, to respect our culture.

'We obviously don't want trouble makers, aggressive fans. I'm not saying all football fans are aggressive but there are certain elements that are aggressive and these are the ones that we have to make sure don't ruin it for the rest.

'But when it comes to people who are celebrating, who are singing, that are having fun, that are acting like true football fans, we want to welcome those.'