Ashley Cole and Gary Neville have urged the Professional Footballers' Association to 'do their job and act' after Chelsea's win at Tottenham was marred by alleged racial abuse aimed at Antonio Rudiger.

The Chelsea defender appeared to gesture that he was being subjected to monkey chants from fans inside the stadium following his involvement in an incident which saw Son Heung-min sent off by VAR in the second half.

Chelsea captain Cesar Azpilicueta reported to referee Anthony Taylor that Rudiger had heard racist songs, which prompted the first of three tannoy announcements warning fans about their behaviour, acting in line with the first of UEFA's three-step racism protocol.

Ashley Cole believes football authorities are not doing enough to tackle the issue of racism

Antonio Rudiger told his team-mates he heard racist songs aimed at him from the stands

Cole spoke about his own experiences of being abused after Sunday's London derby, before calling on the authorities to do more to tackle the issue of racism in football.

'We see the same things being done all the time,' he told Sky Sports. 'Do these people need educating? What we need now is people around them grassing them up and getting them kicked out.

'Maybe they're not racist. Maybe they have that one moment where they are being cocky with their friends. I don't know how you solve it to be honest.

'I have had a lot said to me from the stands before. My job is to play football. I love playing football and I'd rather show them with my football. Of course it's happened (to me).

Cole also heaped praise on Raheem Sterling for all the awareness he has raised about the issue

'I think attitudes are changing in terms of doing the announcements and stuff, but they have to. But why do they have to wait for something to happen before doing the announcements. That's why I praise Raheem [Sterling] for coming out and saying stuff because I didn't. I didn't do it because I felt I didn't have enough support.

'Raheem felt he didn't have enough people on his side which I didn't have. He is fighting a lone battle, maybe a lot of black players think 'I'm wasting my time',

'Raheem has done enough now for the authorities to stamp it out. But if the Premier League or the PFA are not doing enough, they're just not doing enough to make people listen then it's a problem and it's never going to change.'

Cole's concerns were echoed by Neville, who suggested that players walking off the pitch must now be a considered a viable option when racist abuse is heard from fans.

He added: 'It's far more deeper than that. Ultimately Ashley was abused at the Bernabeu in a game I played. I was sat in the dressing room and I never gave it a second thought. The English media is calling for the football authorities to deal with foreign football associations but we have to address our own problems.

'I mentioned a couple of weeks ago we had a general election where both leaders of the main parties have problems with racism in their own party so we are seeing it at a major level.

Gary Neville said the PFA need to do their job and act to protect players from racial abuse

'It's a far bigger problem than one individual person, maybe we have to empower the players to walk off the pitch and stop the entertainment. I didn't walk off the pitch when Ashley was abused 15 years ago and maybe it's all well and good talking from your ivory tower but maybe I should have done that.

'The PFA need to act because it's ultimately their job to protect players in their own country and they should protect the players if the football associations don't do it.'

The Professional Footballers' Association later called for a government inquiry into racism within football.

The PFA took to Twitter to defend itself and called on the government to launch a full-scale inquiry into the subject.

Their tweets said: 'Following the events at today's Tottenham Hotspur v Chelsea game, we are disgusted and dismayed that once again, a Premier League fixture has been tainted by abuse from the stands towards players. Racism has no place in football or society. It is deeply disappointing that some fans continue to display vulgar racist gestures and chants from the stands.

'It has become clear that football players are on the receiving end of the blatant racism that is currently rife in the UK, but they are not alone. The PFA stands beside every player who faces discrimination. We will continue to fight on their behalf to combat this issue for good.

'Football is part of the fabric of British society. With the huge global audience that English football attracts, we have a responsibility to lead the way with a zero-tolerance policy.

'Racist abuse in football is not just an issue for black and ethnic minority players, it is an issue for everyone who loves the game.

'Whilst the protocols in place ensured stadium announcements were executed today, we need to ensure the perpetrators are identified and dealt with according to the law.

'We believe that the time has come for all governing bodies to unite collectively to end this abuse. Tonight, the PFA calls for a government enquiry (sic) into racism within football and encourage the establishment of an All-Party Group at the Department of Culture Media and Sport.

'All football stakeholders must work in partnership with police and clubs to drive this issue and accelerate solutions. As always, the PFA extends our full support to Antonio Rudiger and any player who has suffered racist abuse. We will not allow this to continue. Now more than ever we must unite and stand strong and together to confront, challenge and eradicate racist abuse in our stadiums and in our country.'