Donald Trump finished off a round of golf Sunday with a lunch party consisting of Rush Limbaugh, his son Eric Trump, and professional golfer Jim Herman.

A photo posted on Instagram shows the president eating with the three men. A fourth man has his back to the camera but appears to be acting White House chief of staff Mick Mulvaney, who is in West Palm Beach with the president.

A source inside the club confirmed to DailyMail.com the president dined with his son and Herman.

Donald Trump eating lunch Sunday at his Trump golf club with Rush Limbaugh, Eric Trump and professional golfer Jim Herman

Supporters at the golf club posted photos to social media of Trump and his son Eric

President Donald Trump heads to the golf course

Trump arrived at his Trump International Golf Club West Palm Beach shortly after 10 am on Sunday for a round of golf.

He had also played golf on Saturday.

The president is spending the holidays in Mar-a-Lago, known as the Winter White House, with his family, including Melania, Barron, Donald Trump Jr, Ivanka Trump, and Eric Trump.

The Winter White House has been a hub of social activity with several parties being hosted at the estate.

Posts on social media show there was a Studio 54 party there Saturday night, attended by Rudy Giuliani.

The Rev. Jerry Falwell Jr. and his family also posted pictures from the president's Florida residence.

Falwell Jr., Giuliani and Trump all addressed the Turning Point USA conference on separate occasions over the past few days. The annual gathering of conservative students is organized by Trump friend Charlie Kirk.

On Friday night, Jerry Falwell Jr, so of the famed late pastor and president of the evangelical Liberty University, was spotted at Mar-a-Lago mingling with Trump.

Turning Point USA held a reception at Mar-a-Lago Wednesday night before the president arrived in Florida.

Additionally, Eddie Gallagher met withTrump and first lady Melania Trump at Mar-a-Lago to 'thank' the president after he overruled the Navy's decision to strip the SEAL of his Trident pin.

Rudy Giuliani was spotted partying at Donald Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort in Saturday night

Trump poses with Jerry Falwell Jr, Falwell's wife Becki (left) and Kimberly Guilfoyle at Mar-a-Lago on Friday night

The motorcade carrying President Donald Trump arrives at Trump International Golf Club

Supporters wave to President Trump as he travels from his golf club

Eddie and his wife Andrea shared a series of images from the Studio 54 themed party in Palm Beach, Florida. They gave the president 'a little gift from Eddie's deployment to Mosul' during the meeting.

Chief Petty Officer Gallagher was accused of war crimes that included murder in the fatal stabbing of an Islamic State militant captive in his care and attempted murder in the shootings of civilians during a 2017 deployment to Iraq.

In the end, the military jury acquitted Gallagher of all the charges except one, posing in photos with the dead captive. He was demoted but was later allowed to keep his Trident Pin and retire a SEAL after an intervention by Trump.

Eddie and Andrea Gallagher met with Donald Trump and his wife Melania to 'thank' the president after he overruled the Navy's decision to strip the SEAL of his Trident pin

Eddie and his wife Andrea shared a series of images from Palm Beach, Florida, where the first family will be spending Christmas. They gave the president 'a little gift from Eddie's deployment to Mosul' during the meeting on Saturday, pictured

The couple wrote on their shared Instagram account Saturday night: 'Finally got to thank the President and his amazing wife by giving them a little gift from Eddie's deployment to Mosul. #TRUMP2020 @realdonaldtrump @flotus.'

A series of pictures shows the Gallaghers meeting with Donald and Melania in civilian formal wear.

The president can be seen holding the gift, which has not been identified, after landing into Palm Beach on Friday.

Trump took an interest in the case after Bernard Kerick, a former business partner to Trump personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani, became an advocate for the family and made appearances in conservative media.