Hugh Grant claims people wrongly assume he's rich because of the way he speaks - and admits he was 'badly behaved' and 'pretentious' while growing up.

The Love Actually star, 59, told how he used to do impressions of his teachers - who often caught him up to no good, including smoking in a nearby park.

He revealed he went to a state primary school before attending Latymer Upper School in Hammersmith, London - which now charges £6,945 per term - when it was a direct grant grammar school.

A keen painter, Hugh's father ran a carpet firm and was an officer in the Seaforth Highlanders for eight years in Malaya and Germany, while his mother worked as a Latin, French and music teacher for over 30 years in west London state schools.

Hugh Grant claims people wrongly assume he's rich because of the way he speaks - and admits he was 'badly behaved' and 'pretentious' while growing up

Speaking in BBC2's A Life on Screen, Hugh told how he used to do impressions of his teachers - who often caught him up to no good, including smoking in a nearby park. Pictured as a young man

Both his parents were children of military families, with his grandfather, Colonel James Murray Grant, DSO decorated for bravery and leadership at Saint-Valery-en-Caux during World War II.

Speaking in BBC2's A Life on Screen, London-born father-of-three Hugh said: 'People think I must be rich because of the way I speak, but we were not rich, we weren't at all.

'I went to the state primary school in Chiswick, and then I did get into Latymer, which is now an extremely expensive school but was then was a thing called a direct grant school, so a local council could get you in if you weren't rich.

'They have a very good system now for helping people who wouldn't normally be able to afford to go there, and I'm all in with that.'

The actor said he did 'a lot of impressions' of his teachers there, with a favourite being Mr Hammond, his chemistry teacher.

Hugh revealed he went to a state primary school (pictured) before attending Latymer Upper School in Hammersmith, London - which now charges £6,945 per term - when it was a direct grant grammar school

Hugh, pictured as a schoolboy in the Latymer School rugby team, said his children's stories are about him getting into trouble as a youngster

'He used to say, "Hugh Grant, you have got to be separated from Guy Bentley..." and yes, he caught me doing it once, and smoking in Furnivall Gardens,' he recalled.

'This is my children's favourite stories, "What else did you do Daddy, what other punishments did you get?" So yes I was badly behaved and pretentious.'

Genealogist Antony Adolph once described Hugh's family history as 'a colourful Anglo-Scottish tapestry of warriors, empire-builders and aristocracy', reports The Scotsman.

His ancestors are believed to include William Drummond, 4th Viscount Strathallan, James Stewart, John Murray, 1st Marquess of Atholl, Heneage Finch, 1st Earl of Nottingham, Sir Evan Nepean, and a sister of former Prime Minister Spencer Perceval.

Last week during an interview with Chris Evans on his Virgin Radio Breakfast Show, Hugh admitted he was once averse to the idea of both children and marriage.

Hugh, pictured on A Life on Screen, finally got married when he tied the knot with long-term girlfriend Anna Eberstein at the age of 57 in May last year

The actor finally got married when he tied the knot with long-term girlfriend Anna Eberstein at the age of 57 in May last year.

Anna, 40, had dated the Hollywood actor on and off for six years before they tied the knot at a registry office in Chelsea after welcoming their third child.

Hugh was plugging his new Guy Ritchie movie The Gentlemen alongside co star Matthew McConaughey when he spoke about his wedding to TV producer Anna, saying that marriage was something he 'put off'.

'It was a very small affair, that's all,' he said, adding: 'It was very nice getting married. It was another thing I put off too many decades. Very nice. Very nice being married.'

Last week during an interview with Chris Evans on his Virgin Radio Breakfast Show, Hugh admitted he was once averse to the idea of both children and marriage. Pictured with his wife Anna Eberstein, whom he married at a registry office in Chelsea last year after welcoming their third child

Asked by host Chris why he put it off so long, the actor said he was simply 'wrong,' as he also was about not wanting children.

'Well, I was just plain wrong. I was wrong. And children, you know, I used to roll my eyes. People would say, oh Hugh you don't understand it, but they were right,' he explained.

Chris retorted, playing on the actor's love for golf: 'And that's that's why you played golf for so long.'

'Yes, of course. Sad, angry, old golfer,' Hugh responded.