He's still reportedly in the doghouse, after he was seen publicly cozying up to his co-star Alisha Wainwright in New Orleans last month.

And Justin Timberlake is continuing to be on 'his best behavior' as he prepares to spend the holiday season with his wife Jessica Biel and their son, Silas, four.

The 38-year-old has been going above and beyond to ensure his wife knows she's his number one, according to Us Weekly.

Scroll down for video

Still in the doghouse! Justin Timberlake has continued to be on his best behavior and 'make a big effort' with wife Jessica Biel, after he was seen getting cozy with his female co-star in New Orleans last month (pictured September 2018)

'Jessica and Justin are spending the holiday together and she is really ready for some alone time with him,' a source told Us Weekly on Sunday.

'He has been so sweet to her and is making sure that Jessica knows how much she means to him. He is really making a big effort.'

Jessica however is still 'very hurt and upset with Justin,' a source told Us Weekly on Friday.

Making a big effort: 'He has been so sweet to her and is making sure that Jessica knows how much she means to him. He is really making a big effort' (pictured July 2019)

Messy: It comes after Justin was spotted holding hands with his Palmer co-star, Alicia Wainwright (pictured September 2019) while enjoying a night out after filming in New Orleans on November 21

'She hasn’t fully forgiven him and isn’t letting him off easy,' the source went on.

It comes after Justin was spotted holding hands with his Palmer co-star while enjoying a night out after filming in New Orleans on November 21.

The pair were seen on the balcony of the Absinthe House in New Orleans with their fellow cast and crew.

The Friends with Benefits star took to social media two weeks later to apologize for his actions.

He said he 'displayed a strong lapse in judgement', 'drank way too much' and 'regretted his behavior' as it wasn't the 'example he wants to set for his son.'

Regretful: The Friends with Benefits star took to social media two weeks later to apologize for his actions

Not a good look: Justin also apologized to his wife of seven years, Jessica, and his family for his 'embarrassing' actions (pictured October 2019)

Justin also apologized to his wife of seven years, Jessica, and his family for his 'embarrassing' actions.

The Mirror singer and his female co-star play onscreen love interests in Palmer.

The film is about an ex-convict who forms a friendship with a troubled young boy.

Justin and Jessica have been married since 2012, and share a four-year-old son together, Silas Randall.

And it appears as though Justin has been getting back into the swing of things, sharing a photo of himself in the studio recording some new music.

'Back at it,' he captioned last week.