Alexandra Cane has set pulses racing as she displayed her jawdropping physique in a sultry bikini snap.

The former Love Island star, 28, showed off the results of her recent two-stone weight loss as she posed in a turquoise bikini.

The bikini top had a daring cut-out at the centre while Alexandra added height to her frame with a pair of ankle strap heels.

Stunning: Alexandra Cane has set pulses racing as she displayed her jawdropping physique in a sultry bikini snap after shedding two stone

Styling her brunette locks into a ponytail, the reality star looked nothing short of sensational as she posed up a storm in the snap.

Alongside the post, Alexandra wrote how she has been 'hiding away' lately but now feels 'sexy and confident' in herself.

She wrote: 'Because life is too short to be anything but PROUD of the person you’ve become...

'I’ve been hiding away a little bit & conscious of not posting bikini pics/pictures with too much skin etc as there has already been enough criticism about my fitness/wellness journey - weight loss being a bonus.

Sultry: Alexandra posed in a turquoise bikini and added height to her frame with a pair of ankle strap heels

'But truly I have NEVER been in this shape in my life. I feel sexy & confident and wanted to post this so thats what I’m doing.

'Sorry, not sorry. The work and consistency it took to get here - I’m owning it. I feel f***ing fabulous.'

Several of Alexandra's Love Island pals commented on the snap, including Rosie Williams who wrote: 'My 2020 motivation! I loved finding out about your journey the other night! Keep up the good work & always keep doing it for you! Well done baby.'

Meanwhile, Anna Vakili said: 'You look unreal, well done,' while Francesca Allen said Alexandra looked 'amazing'.

Happy: Alongside the snap, Alexandra wrote how she has been ''hiding away' lately but now feels 'sexy and confident' in herself

Alexandra has always been candid about her body shape and has been showing off her weight loss and toned physique in a series of snaps recently.

Back in July the beauty championed body positivity on while enjoying a holiday in Mykonos because she looks stunning no matter what her dress size.

Posting a short video on Instagram, she wrote: 'Because rolls are cute & very normal. Happy Wednesday you lovely lot. Be kind to yourself today!'

And at the start of November, the Love Island star hit back at fans who claimed she Photoshopped an image posted to her Instagram account.

She wrote: 'Sorry, not sorry. The work and consistency it took to get here - I’m owning it. I feel f***ing fabulous'

The star denied she altered the image after some of her social media followers alleged she edited the striking photo to make her figure appear slimmer.

Alexandra - who has been praised for 'keeping it real' in the past - penned: 'lost perspective? I’m more focused and clearer headed than ever. A shame that’s how you feel but can’t please everyone.' [sic]

In the snap, the make-up artist highlighted her toned physique in a sheer floral-embroidered bodysuit and leather trousers as she posed up a storm on a bed.

It comes after after it was revealed that Alexandra has parted ways with boyfriend Adam Theobald just under a month ago, with an insider claiming they're still on talking terms.

Split: Alexandra is said to have called it quits from boyfriend Adam Theobald just under a month ago, with an insider claiming they're still on talking terms (pictured in February)

A source recently revealed: 'They split up a few weeks ago, but they're still in contact.'

According to The Sun, the make-up artist is believed to have initiated the break-up from the sales negotiator - who she went public with on Valentine's Day.

The pair have reportedly deleted all traces of their almost year-long romance from social media.

MailOnline contacted Alexandra's representatives for further comment.

End of the road: The make-up artist is believed to have initiated the break-up from the sales negotiator - who she went public with on Valentine's Day (pictured in August)

Before revealing her relationship status earlier in the year, the 2018 Love Islander suggested she was enjoying a new romance after sharing separate shots of a bouquet of red roses delivered to her London home across Instagram and Twitter.

Back in March, their relationship was rocked by claims Alexandra and Dan Osborne, who is married to Jacqueline Jossa, enjoyed a brief fling during a night out - a report they both vehemently denied.

Former EastEnders star Jacqueline, 27, was reportedly left 'embarrassed and very angry' following the shocking reports.

A defiant Alexandra firmly brushed aside the cheating rumours with Adam as they enjoyed a romantic break to Dubai in April.

Despite appearing stronger than ever, the reality star has now parted ways from the Kent-based hunk.

Rumours: Back in March, their relationship was rocked by claims Alexandra and Dan Osborne, who is married to Jacqueline Jossa (pictured earlier in the year), enjoyed a brief fling

Since her rise to fame on Love Island, Alexandra was romantically linked to 2016 Love Island contestant Rykard Jenkins, as sources claimed they 'couldn't keep their hands off each other' during a night out back in January.

After the rumours emerged, the model took to her widely-followed Instagram account to deny the pair are together.

When a keen fan asked: 'are u dating rykard'. [sic], the brunette replied: 'Off topic but no we are not dating'.

Happier times: A defiant Alexandra firmly brushed aside the cheating rumours with Adam as they enjoyed a romantic break to Dubai in April (pictured)

Rumoured fling: Since her rise to fame on Love Island, Alexandra was romantically linked to 2016 Love Island contestant Rykard Jenkins (pictured in December)

Flame: Since leaving the villa, she was also rumoured to date boohooMAN's Samir Kamani (pictured last year), after they were spotted putting on a cosy display in September 2018

The bombshell arrived on the ITV2 dating last year as a late entrant in July, and while she initially caught Dr Alex George's eye, their union ended in a bitter state.

Since leaving the villa, she was also rumoured to date co-star Alex Miller and boohooMAN CEO Samir Kamani, after they were spotted putting on an affectionate display in September 2018.

A source dished to MailOnline exclusively at the time: 'Alexandra Cane and Samir Kamani danced the nights away at Tape nightclub... [but] they are just friends and Alexandra will be seeing Samir on Monday for work.'